
   ----CITATION---- 
        Sadler, William Samuel, 1875-. Worry and nervousness. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1850
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    

      
        
        WORRY AND NERVOUSNESS
        
      

      
        

        BOOKS BY DR. SADLER
        
        WORRY AND NERVOUSNESS; OR, THE SCIENCE OF SELF-MASTERY. Illustrated 12
          mo. net $1.50

        THE PHYSIOLOGY OF FAITH AND FEAR; OR, THE MIND IN HEALTH AND DISEASE.
          Illustrated 12 mo. net $1.50

        THE SCIENCE OF LIVING; OR, THE ART
            OF KEEPING WELL. Illustrated 12 mo. net $1.50

        THE CAUSE AND CURE OF COLDS. Illustrated 12mo. net $1.00

        
        A. C. McCLURG & CO. CHICAGO
      


      


      
      
        
          
            WORRY and NERVOUSNESS OR THE SCIENCE OF
              SELF-MASTERY
          
        
        BY
          WILLIAM S. SADLER, M. D. PROFESSOR OF THERAPEUTICS, THE
          POST-GRADUATE MEDICAL SCHOOL OF CHICAGO; DIRECTOR OF THE CHICAGO INSTITUTE OF
          PHYSIOLOGIC THERAPEUTICS; FELLOW OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION ; MEMBER OF
          THE CHICAGO MEDICAL SOCIETY; THE ILLINOIS STATE MEDICAL SOCIETY; THE PRESS CLUB
          OF CHICAGO; THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE, ETC.,
          ETC. ILLUSTRATED
        
          CHICAGO
          A. C. McCLURG & CO.
          1914
        
      

      
        

        Copyright A. C. McCLURG & CO. 1914
           Published October, 1914
          
          Copyrighted in Great Britain

        W. B. Hull Printing Co., Chicago
      


      

        
        TO ALL MY "NERVE" PATIENTS: TO THOSE SUFFERERS FROM
          FUNCTIONAL NERVOUS DISTURBANCES, WHO HAVE BEEN HELPED BY THE ADVICE HEREIN CONTAINED-- AND
          WHO HAVE THUS INSPIRED ME TO PUT FORTH RENEWED EFFORTS TO HELP OTHERS-- THIS
          BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED
      

      

      

        
        PREFACE

        SINCE the appearance of The Physiology of Faith and
            Fear a few years ago, I have been importuned on many occasions to undertake the
          preparation of a work devoted more fully to concise and systematic directions regarding
          the treatment and management of the various "nervous states;" and this present volume
          represents my efforts to comply with this demand, which has been so insistent on the part
          of both the laity and the profession.

        Having dealt quite fully with the Physiological and Psychological phases of functional
          nervous disorders in the former work, this book will be almost exclusively devoted to an
          amplification of the therapeutics-- the details of treatment and the practical management
          of the various neuroses, including a large group of "borderland" ailments such as
          alcoholism, migraine, chorea, etc.

        The methods herein described are those practiced in the daily management of these various
          "nervous disorders," whether met in the clinic, the hospital, or in the private consulting
          room; and in this connection the author desires to reiterate a statement made in the
          preface of his former work, viz., that he makes no pretensions of being a professional
          psychotherapist-- that his time and energies are largely devoted to other professional
          duties.

        It was the experience of seeing so many "nervous" patients who had been neglected,
          operated upon, and otherwise mistreated, without being in the least helped; and the
          further experience of seeing a large number of these unfortunate sufferers more or less
          permanently cured at the hands of the numerous psychic cults and mind cure "isms," that
          led to the further study and examination of the science of psychotherapy, all of which  culminated in the writing of The Physiology of
            Faith and Fear, and in the preparation of this volume.

        It has been my experience that Neurasthenics get little help from simply reading a book through a single time; they should read and re-read-- study-- this book systematically, say one hour
          every day, until its teachings become a real part of their mental life.

        While I am greatly indebted to the psychotherapeutic literature of the day-- from which I
          have freely drawn material for this volume-- nevertheless, I desire, in a special manner,
          to acknowledge the help and inspiration which have come from the work and works of such
          original and pioneer workers as Janet, Forel, Prince, Breuer, and Dubois-- men who have
          done so much to lead the way out from the older empiric and hypnotic notions of mind cure
          into the vast and verdant pastures of modern suggestional and educational
          psychotherapeutics.

        I am especially indebted to Dr. W. A. Evans for his reading of the manuscript and
          valuable suggestions, especially the one which led to the writing of Chapter xxvii on "
          Decision Development." I am also indebted to Dr. Julius Grinker for his criticism and
          suggestions with reference to Chapter xxviii "The Relief of Repressed Emotions."

        It is the Author's sincere hope that this work, whether falling accidentally into the
          hands of the laity-- especially nervous sufferers-- or whether put there by the physician,
          will contribute something definite to the emancipation of such sufferers from the tyranny
          of "nerves," the slavery of " worry," and the thraldom of "fear."

        WILLIAM S. SADLER.
        32 N. STATE STREET, CHICAGO,
        October 1, 1914.
      

      
        
        CONTENTS
        
        PART I
          A STUDY OF THE NERVOUS STATES
        
          
            CHAPTER
            PAGE
          
          Seven Sorts of Nervousness 3
          Heredity and Environment as Neurasthenic Factors 11
          Influence of the Physical Health on the Mind 22
          Power of the Mind over the Body 33
          Chronic Fear, or Common Worry 51
          Common Causes of Worry and Nervousness 63
          Habit Tension of Mind and Body 80
          Crystalized Fear and Definite Dreads 95
          "Americanitis," or the High Pressure Life 107
          Neurasthenoidia, or Near-Neurasthenia 120
          Neurasthenia, or Nervous Exhaustion 128
          The Causes of Neurasthenia 143
          The Ear-Marks of Neurasthenia 159
          Fastidious Suffering and Imaginary Pain 174
          The Mission of Suffering and the Purpose of Pain 188
          Special Forms of Neurasthenia 201
          Psychasthenia, or True Brain Fag 210
          Hysteria, the Master Imitator 221
          Hypochondria and Melancholia 235
          Border Land Nervous Ailments 243
        

        
          PART II
            TREATMENT OF THE NERVOUS STATES

          The General Hygiene of the Nervous System 255
          Modern Psychotherapy-- Mental Medicine 275
          Pseudo-Psychotherapy-- Mental Deception 286
          The Art of Therapeutic Suggestion 300
          
          
            CHAPTER
            PAGE
          
          Educational Therapeutics 316
          The Exaltation of the Will 329
          Decision Development 342
          The Relief of Repressed Emotions 351
          Recreation and Relaxation 371
          The Physical Treatment of the Neurasthenic States 392
          Stimulants and Narcotics 410
          The Writing or Elimination Cure 424
          The Study or Substitution Cure 445
          The Rest or Play Cure 458
          The Work or Occupation Cure 469
          The Social Service Cure 480
          The Faith and Prayer Cure 488
          Triumphant Self-Mastery 504
        
      

      
        
        LIST OF PLATES
        
        
          
            FIGURE
            PAGE
          
          The sympathetic nervous system Frontispiece
          The neurasthenic triangle 18
          How the body betrays the mind 38
          The fear of great heights 96
          The high tension of modern life 108
          The results of "high speed" on man and machine 116
          Diagrams illustrating the relation of the threshold of consciousness to the
            sensation of pain 176
          Results of disregarding "danger signals" 196
          Animal pets are good for the blues 238
          Fraudulent methods of healing 288
          Young and old at play 378
          He is a descendant of those men who could throw straight, hit hard, and run
            fast 380
          A revival of ancient tribal struggles 382
          The modern eliminating bath 293
          Hydrotherapy for nervous disorders 394
          Typical scenes in massage 396
          Favorite prescriptions for "nerves" 398
          The curative power of nature study 446
          Taking the outdoor "play cure" 460
          Practicing the "work cure" 470
          Give the children a chance to play 482
        
      
    

    
      
        Worry and nervousness
        
        
          

          PART I A STUDY OF THE NERVOUS STATES

          

          

          WORRY and NERVOUSNESS

          

          PART I A STUDY OF THE NERVOUS STATES

          

          

            CHAPTER I SEVEN SORTS OF NERVOUSNESS

            IN UNDERTAKING a classification of nervous disorders for purposes
              of discussion in this work, it should be remembered that we are here dealing with only
              the so-called functional nervous disorders or neuroses, no attention whatever being
              paid to that vast group of nervous diseases which are accompanied by some manifest
              organic change in the bodily structure, neither will we treat of the more serious
              functional disturbances or psychoses when they assume the grave
              aspects of insanity or near-insanity.

            We are exclusively concerned at this time with the consideration of those functional
              nervous disorders which are so largely amenable to proper treatment; those nervous
              states to the successful management of which it is possible for the patients
              themselves to so largely contribute. While this classification of "nerves" may differ
              slightly from that to be found in the works of the "neurologist," it will be found, we
              think, on closer examination, to be clinically sound, and to afford a clearer basis or
              discussion and comprehension from the standpoint of the laymen.

            

              CLASSIFICATION OF THE NEURASTHENIC STATES

              It should be borne in mind that the names applied to these various groups of
                "nervous symptoms" do not indicate that  these "symptom
                complexes" are to be regarded as "disease entities;" for functional nervous
                disorders are not "diseases" in the sense commonly understood by the laity. These
                nervous disturbances are not a morbid or pathological entity-- they are simply a
                "clinical picture"-- a group of sensations and feelings of a more or less disordered
                character, to which we find it convenient to attach certain names, in order to
                facilitate our discussions of their origin, character, and proper remedial
                treatment.

              From the viewpoint of the laymen, it seems to me that we must divide these functional neuroses into the following seven groups or classes:

              
                THE NEURASTHENIC STATES

                Chronic Fear, or Common Worry.
                Neurasthenoidia, or Near-Neurasthenia.
                Neurasthenia, or Nervous Exhaustion.
                Psychasthenia, or True Brain Fag.
                Hysteria-- The Master Imitator.
                Hypochondria, or The Chronic Blues.
                Simple Melancholia.
              

              Subsequent discoveries and increased knowledge may force us to modify this
                classification, but from the practical basis of planning their conquest, it
                represents the best I can do at the present writing; and it will now be necessary
                explicitly to define the exact meaning which we attach to each term employed in this
                classification, in order that the reader may fully understand the scope and
                significance of each word as it will be used throughout this work.
            

            

              DEFINITION OF NEURASTHENIC TERMS

              It should further be borne in mind by the reader that these seven groups of nervous
                disorders in which we purpose to include all cases of strictly functional nervous
                disturbances, may each be divided into still other sub-divisions, which will be
                subsequently considered; such as the various fright neuroses, the sexual neuroses,
                insomnia, habitual headache, nervous dyspepsia, imperative acts and thoughts (motor
                and mental obsessions), as well as the commonly observed muscular spasms such as
                twitching, epileptoid and choreoid jerkings, etc.

              

              1. Chronic fear-- worry. A purely psychic condition characterized
                by inability to relax the attention when it has once fastened itself on a given
                idea-- usually a persistently entertained fear of some sort. The condition, when it
                becomes chronic, is characterized by diffidence, disordered nutrition, more or less
                rise in blood pressure, and must be regarded, outside of certain hereditary
                predisposition, as constituting the first step toward neurasthenia. It is, in
                reality, the earliest pre-neurasthenic state.

              2. Neurasthenoidia-- near neurasthenia. This is the petite neurasthenie of the French, or common everyday ennui. It is the
                condition which I have heretofore diagnosed as near-neurasthenia. I have chosen this
                term to embrace that large class of nervous sufferers whose mental and physical
                conditions have progressed down the neurasthenic scale far enough to have passed out
                of the simple class of chronic worriers, but who have not yet developed the classic
                ear-marks of a fairly typical neurasthenia. In the differential diagnosis of
                neurasthenoidia and neurasthenia-- in the last analysis-- I depend to some degree
                upon the blood-pressure findings.

              In chronic fear-- all things equal-- I expect to find more or less elevation of the
                blood-pressure. In typical neurasthenia, there is almost invariably a lowering of
                the blood pressure, while neurasthenoidia represents that great
                transition class between the high pressure of chronic worry and the low pressure of
                well developed neurasthenia-- a class in which the blood-pressure is practically
                normal. Therefore, in a given case, if it appears to be a mild acquired neurasthenia
                presenting many of the physical symptoms of nervous exhaustion, and at the same time
                exhibiting a normal blood-pressure-- or a pressure slightly elevated, (providing, of
                course, there exists no other explanation of the blood-pressure behavior) then I
                prefer in such a case to make a diagnosis of "neurasthenoidia."

              3. Neurasthenia-- nervous exhaustion. Neurasthenia may vary in
                degree from a slight "neurataxia" which permits the patient to go about his
                business, to a profound nervous prostration which renders him bed-fast. This
                condition is characterized by combined mental depression and physical fatigue, all
                of which is apparently due to "nerve exhaustion."

              

              Neurasthenia is in reality nothing more than a medical name for a large group of
                symptoms which are found presenting themselves as a result of some functional
                disorder of the nervous system, or as a result of some other form of vital
                depression. It is a condition founded, as a rule, on heredity, and is usually
                preceded by some severe mental or physical strain-- or both. Neurasthenia is
                accompanied by characteristic pains, insomnia, loss of memory, loss of appetite,
                depression of blood-pressure, etc.

              Neurasthenia may be sub-classified as follows: 
                  Cerebral Neurasthenia.
                  Spinal Neurasthenia.
                  Gastric Neurasthenia.
                  Sexual Neurasthenia.
                  Traumatic Neurasthenia.
                

              4. Psychasthenia-- true brain fag. Under this term I group what
                might be called the "hereditary form of the neurasthenic states," in
                contradistinction to the common or acquired forms. In psychasthenia the symptoms
                which the patient complains of are very largely-- if not exclusively-- purely
                psychic in nature. The blood-pressure may be more or less depressed (not so
                unvaryingly as in acquired neurasthenia) and the minor physical symptoms of nervous
                exhaustion may be present in varying degrees; nevertheless, the characteristic
                "symptom complex" in these cases is largely referable to the mind. It is essentially
                a picture of psychic exhaustion in contrast with the nerve or physical exhaustion of
                neurasthenia. In practically every case of well marked psychasthenia there will
                almost invariably be found abundant evidence of a neurotic ancestry.

              5. Hysteria-- the master imitator. Under this term we include a
                vast group of highly suggestible patients who are more or less hereditarily tainted
                with psychasthenia and environmentally affected with neurasthenia. Any idea,
                sensation, or emotion may gain such an over-powering mastery of the mind and nervous
                mechanism (especially the sympathetic nervous system) as completely to demoralize
                the patient's nerve control, resulting in the adept imitation of a vast group of
                mental and physical disorders. 

              

              In general, hysteria is further characterized by hyperesthesias, pain and
                tenderness (especially over the ovaries, head, spine, etc.), choking sensations,
                disturbance of sight and hearing, spasms, convulsions, paralyses, retention of
                urine, fever, hallucinations, and even catalepsy. In hysteria the blood-pressure
                findings are variable and uncertain, owing to the nature and severity of the attack,
                running fairly normal between attacks, although usually slightly depressed when not
                accompanied by chronic worry.

              6. Hypochondria-- the chronic blues. Here we have a constant
                morbid anxiety about personal health and welfare, often associated with some
                simulated diseases, and usually accompanied by more or less melancholia. These
                patients have become the personification of their long entertained fears, while
                chronic worry has become second nature to them. If no other physical conditions are
                present to interfere, the blood-pressure is almost always considerably elevated in
                all these cases of hypochondriasis.

              7. Simple melancholia. This constitutes the "borderland" group of
                cases which separate the relatively harmless and curable classes of functional
                nervous diseases (neuroses) from that serious and even dangerous group of organic or
                functionally incurable*
                nervous diseases (psychoses), which begins here and extends on up through the varied
                forms of insanity.

              In practically all cases of melancholia there will be found elevation of
                blood-pressure accompanied by constant depression of spirits and the ever present
                gloomy forebodings of the future. (It is not our intention in this work to treat of
                the melancholia of the insane variety; that belongs to the alienist. We desire only
                to treat of the slighter forms-- the pre-insane varieties.)

              Each of these seven sorts of nervousness will be amply and fully treated in later
                chapters. They have here simply been classified and defined in order that the reader
                may acquire the 
                *That is, incurable as
                  compared to the neuroses-- and from the standpoint of self-treatment. Not always
                  incurable from the view-point of the expert alienist.
                 author's meaning and viewpoint, and thus, early in the
                study of this book, we hope to prevent those serious misunderstandings as to the
                exact meaning of words-- misunderstandings which result in "nervous readers"
                sometimes being led into harmful notions that they are suffering from some ailment
                far more serious than the facts warrant. I have learned from sad experience that we
                must be very careful and explicit in all our efforts to emancipate these "nervous
                sufferers"-- lest we unintentionally plunge them into a worse bondage of fear and
                apprehension.

              It will be noticed that the author is sometimes disposed to classify certain of his
                "nerve" cases-- when otherwise in doubt as to their exact nature-- by the results of
                continued blood-pressure observations. I have found the blood-pressure findings of
                great value, not only in the diagnosis, but also in the prognosis-- not to mention
                its great service as an encouragement to the patient in his fight for self-mastery
                and health. And so, from the standpoint of the blood-pressure, the various
                neurasthenic states may be grouped as follows: 
                  Chronic Fear-- Worry-- As a general rule-- Blood-pressure
                    raised.
                  Neurasthenoidia-- As a general rule-- blood-pressure normal.
                  Neurasthenia-- As a general rule-- blood-pressure lowered.
                  Psychasthenia-- As a general rule-- blood-pressure lowered.
                  Hysteria-- As a general rule-- blood-pressure variable.
                  Hypochondria-- As a general rule-- blood-pressure raised.
                  Melancholia-- As a general rule-- blood-pressure raised.
                
              
            

            

              DEFINITIONS OF NEUROLOGICAL TERMS

              
                
                  Alienist: An expert or specialist in the treatment and
                  management of insanity.
                
                  Hypochondriasis: Hypochondria.
                
                  Lesion: A physical hurt, a wound, a local degeneration of bodily
                  structures. If a lesion is present, actual bodily changes can be discerned, at
                  least with the aid of the microscope.
                
                  Neurosis: A functional (and presumably curable) disease or
                  disorder of the nervous system. In the neuroses there are no known or discoverable
                  lesions to be found in the body.
                
                  Neurotic: Pertaining to nervousness; hereditary taint
                  predisposing to the neurasthenic states, a manifest tendency toward some of the
                  so-called neurasthenic states.

                

                
                  Psychosis: A real disease of the mind; a true insanity or
                  disorder approaching thereto. Psychoses require additional and different treatment
                  than that outlined in this work.
                
                  Psychotherapy: The treatment or cure of any disease by direct or
                  indirect influence upon the mind. Mental therapeutics-- scientific mind cure--
                  embraces such methods as suggestion, educational therapeutics, persuasion,
                  will-training, faith cure, psychanalysis, emotional elimination, recreation,
                  relaxation, study, work, rest, social service, prayer, religion, also hypnotism,
                  etc., etc.
                
                  Psychokinesia: An explosive cerebral action, due to defective
                  inhibition.
                
                  Psychoneurosis: A nervous disorder affecting the mind and body
                  which is regarded as being largely, if not wholly, of mental origin.
                
                  Psychosensory: Pertaining to the conscious perception of sensory
                  impulses to the mind and to sensation.
                
                  Psychanalysis: The method of Freud (Jung) of eliciting from
                  nervous patients, against or without the active or conscious co-operation of their
                  wills, ideas and facts regarding their past emotional experiences, their dreams,
                  etc.
                
                  Psychataxia: A disordered mental state characterized by
                  inability to fix or concentrate the attention.
                
                  Psychiatry: The treatment of bona fide mental diseases. The
                  scientific treatment and management of the insane.
                
                  Psychic: Pertaining to the mind.
                
                  Psychalgia: Pain attending or resulting from a purely mental
                  operation. Mind pain or soul pain.
              
            

            

              SUMMARY OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE NERVOUS STATES

              
                THE PSYCHO-NEUROSES
                
                  Chronic fear-- worry.
                  
                     Prolonged grief and sorrow.
                     Premonitions and disappointments.
                     Crystallized fears.
                     Define dreads.
                     Obsessions-- mental and motor.
                     Nervous high tension.
                     Unsatisfied happiness hunger
                  
                

                
                  Neurasthenoidia-- near neurasthenia.
                  
                     Hereditary.
                     Acquired.
                     Accidental.
                  
                

                
                  Neurasthenia-- nervous exhaustion.
                  
                     Cerebral.
                     Spinal.
                     Gastric.
                     Sexual.
                     Traumatic.
                  
                
                

                
                  Psychasthenia-- true brain fag.
                  
                     Mental incapacity.
                    . Disorders of memory.
                     Brain storms.
                  
                

                
                  Hysteria-- the master imitator.
                  
                     Exaggerated psychic contagion.
                     Demoralized sympathetic control.
                     Combined brain and nerve storm.
                  
                

                
                  Hypochondria-- the chronic blues.
                  
                     Periodical depression.
                     Chronic auto-intoxication.
                     Combined physical and psychic states.
                  
                

                
                  Melancholia.
                  
                     Simple melancholia.
                     True melancholia.
                     Circular insanity.
                  
                
              

              
                BORDERLAND NERVOUS DISORDERS

                 Chorea-- St. Vitus' dance.
                 The Tics-- twitchings.
                 Stuttering and stammering.
                 Ataxias-- walking, writing, etc.
                 Tremors and tremblings.
                 Dreams and hallucinations.
                 Alcoholism and dipsomania.
                 Drug habits.
                 Persistant insomnia.
                 Migraine-- nervous sick headache.
                 Epilepsy and pseudo-epilepsy.
                 Defectives and degenerates. 
                     Idiocy.
                     Feeble-mindedness.
                     Pauperism.
                     Prostitution.
                     Criminality.
                  
                

              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER II HEREDITY AND ENVIRONMENT AS
              NEURASTHENIC FACTORS

            WEN a careful search is made into the family histories of the
              sufferers from various nervous disorders there will be discovered in all cases of
              psychasthenia and in a vast majority of neurasthenia, an unmistakable neurotic
              ancestry, exhibiting an hereditary taint embracing neurasthenia, psychasthenia,
              hysteria, migraine, hypochondria, melancholia, chorea, alcoholism, epilepsy, etc.

            
              ANCESTRAL NEUROTIC TAINT

              It does not follow that the child is doomed to suffer in life-long bondage to
                neurasthenia or psychasthenia because of the fact that he springs from a neurotic
                ancestry, because not all of the offspring of a neurotic stock are thus afflicted.
                But it does follow that in practically all cases of psychasthenia-- we are able to
                detect the neurotic strain if we go back far enough into the family history and with
                sufficient care; and that in the vast majority of cases of well marked neurasthenia,
                we are also able to elicit a "nervous" family history.

              Of these neurologically disinherited souls, Dubois has well written: 
                  From effects of heredity and atavism, often from the fault of the parents or
                    from unfavorable hygienic conditions, many children find disease in their
                    cradles and will never enjoy that precious blessing of physical health. More
                    ill-favored still are those to whom nature has given a gloomy disposition, those
                    "sorrowful souls," as W. James calls them, who can only react the wrong way, in
                    the sense of sadness.
                   These martyrs, to heredity and perverted education are innumerable. The world
                    does not understand them; it ill-treats them. There  is no hospital with neat white beds, no gracious nurses' faces, no doctor,
                    kind though gruff, for these unfortunates who are suffering in mind and who need
                    both to be consoled and stimulated. We do not know where to put them; the
                    lunatic asylum, which seems really indicated, would be a prison to them; their
                    homes, which ought to be their refuge, are the very places where the evil was
                    created, not only through the unavoidable influence of psychopathic heredity,
                    but also by education, by mental contagion. Most frequently the parents do not
                    recognize the mental likeness, and though quite as abnormal in mind as their
                    offspring, blame them for their misfortune.
              
            

            
              NEURASTHENIC ENVIRONMENT

              We cannot deny that the fact that a large number of cases of neurasthenia are
                appearing nowadays in persons whose families-- on both sides of the house have
                heretofore been entirely or quite free from neurotic taint. Nervous breakdowns are
                appearing in increasing numbers in families whose histories seem to be
                neurologically sound. I am forced to recognize that many of these newly appearing
                neurasthenias are not based upon any discoverable hereditary taint. They are due
                largely to a vicious environment. They represent premature break-downs on the part
                of a nervous mechanism which has persistently been forced to exert itself far beyond
                the measure of human endurance.

              Many of our modern breakdowns also represent the coming to the surface of a strain
                of nervous weakness which has in the past been increasing from generation to
                generation, but which has not heretofore been sufficiently marked or well developed
                to assume neurasthenic proportions; but which, under the modern high tension of the
                incessant battle for riches and fame, readily assumes the gravity of neurasthenia or
                near-neurasthenia; thus laying the ancestral foundations for a new and future line
                of neurasthens and psychasthens.

              Many of our present day new and non-hereditary neurasthenics owe their origin to
                that increasing craving for self-gratification and unwholesome pleasures-- that sort
                of pleasure-madness which has so largely permeated all classes of society from the
                highest to the lowest, and which ever seeks to 
                discover still more exciting, thrilling, and pernicious forms of stimulation and
                entertainment.
            

            
              COMPLEXITY OF MODERN CIVILIZATION

              And so, while heredity, pernicious personal practices, and an unhygienic
                environment, may all be concerned in the greatly increased production of
                neurasthenics; notwithstanding all these established and accepted factors, there is
                in the mind of the author still another powerful factor which is exceedingly
                influential just now as an influence in the increased production of neurasthenia. I
                refer to the fact that the complexities and complications of modern industrial
                business and social life are increasing and multiplying with such rapidity, that the
                average human brain and nervous system is unable to adapt and adjust itself with
                sufficient alacrity to keep pace with the rapid progress and gigantic evolutions now
                taking place in the world about us. Neurasthenia is a part of the price which the
                human race is paying for the rapid advancement and the wonderful achievements
                attendant upon the business, the art, and the science of the twentieth century.

              At least this new stress and strain of modern life, becomes a factor accounting for
                the great increase of nervous disorders among those classes of society who are
                forced to labor for a livelihood. And it is a well recognized fact that the number
                of weaklings, neurotics, and defectives is increasing in alarming proportions. The
                possession of will-power is deplorably on the decrease, while the lower or baser
                passions seem to be gaining more and more control over certain classes of society
                with each succeeding generation.
            

            
              DIFFICULTIES IN DIFFERENTIATION

              And so it appears that, after having made every and due allowance for all
                environmental influences which might tend to increase the nervous states in this day
                and generation, the fundamental fact persists that heredity is after all the chief
                factor in the production of that nervous state which leads up to neurasthenia and
                its neurotic cousins. We all enter this world equipped with a nervous system which
                is endowed with a  certain degree of nervous strength.
                (Fig. 1.) This inheritance constitutes our neurological capital and during our
                lifetime we are compelled to live thereon; our interest yield therefrom being wholly
                determined by the wisdom or lack of wisdom with which we react to our surroundings
                from day to day. Careless living may effectually dissipate a vast inheritance of
                vital force and nervous energy; while on the other hand, careful living and a
                judicious administration of even a scanty inheritance of nervous vitality may enable
                one to reap a rich reward of good health in this life and at the same time add
                something to the prospects of stronger nerves in the children of future
                generations.

              Forel, speaking of the difficulties of recognizing the differences between heredity
                and acquired nervous disturbances, says: It is practically
                    impossible in every case of this sort to separate what is purely hereditary from
                    what is acquired in the course of development; both groups of factors usually
                    work together to engender a product as unfortunate for the individual himself as
                    for society. What is abnormal here is the original disposition. Through training
                    and the relations of life this bad disposition can be strengthened, i.e., made
                    worse, or, if it is not too powerful and one-sided, it can be more or less
                    successfully combated and dammed back.

              Desequilibres (unbalanced) is a term used by the French to
                indicate those pathological natures who lack balance in this or that or in many
                respects, and whose thought and feeling and will are generally unsteady and without
                proper measure. The modern term psychasthenia, or mental irritable weakness, can
                also be used in the description of such cases.

              Where does the inherited tendency come from? Why do people come into the world with
                a strong tendency to mental and nervous diseases? The answer, "Because their parents
                or ancestors were mentally diseased," is not satisfactory, for where did these get
                their disease or tendency to it? The sickly tendency must be introduced somewhere,
                and so the question comes back to the following: What causes produce or maintain in
                a given race or a given generation the tendency to engender mental and nervous
                disturbances in their descendants? Since only that can be inherited which affects or
                injures the germ plasm itself, purely acquired local diseases of the nervous system
                as such can produce no pathological tendency in the germ. Moreover, since under
                normal conditions of life, inherited pathological tendencies gradually tend to
                disappear in the course of  a few generations through
                what is called regeneration, a progressive degeneration must have causes which are
                progressive or at least continually renewed, and cannot rest altogether on old
                inherited tendencies.
            

            
              THE GERM PLASM

              The ova and spermatozoa represent parts of the human machine which are quite unable
                to look after their own hygiene. We say jokingly that one cannot be too careful in
                the choice of a parent; but, the truth is, we cannot choose. And so, because of the
                fact that our posterity cannot have the slightest voice in selecting their nervous
                systems, it becomes a sacred duty for parents to look out for the health of their
                offspring. It is all very well to say that we must not assume the role of fate, that
                we must leave the selection of the human race to chance and nature. While it is a
                fact that the animal kingdom does thus apparently blindly risk its destiny, it
                should be remembered that animals do not practice medicine; they do not take care of
                the sick and disabled, they do not protect the weak and prolong the life of the
                unfit, so that with them death provides for the selection. But with man it is
                different; we take care of the sick and afflicted, we kill off the sound and healthy
                by war, and as one authority has well said: We make natural
                    alliances more difficult by cultivating prostitution and venereal diseases, by
                    constant military service, and by destroying normal sexual selection in
                    marriages for the sake of wealth and position; we cultivate drink and other bad
                    habits, and, in short, constantly play the part of a malign fate that provides
                    for the deterioration of the race. To be sure there is a certain justification
                    for bringing against our requirements the non-success of the Spartan lawgiver,
                    Lycurgus. But, as might be expected from his times and ignorance of science, he
                    carried out a selection for bodily strength only, and totally neglected mental
                    vigor; and moreover he committed the great blunder of allowing the slavery of
                    the Helots to continue. Thus he helped to breed a people who were physically
                    strong, to be sure, but stupid and lazy. He had forgotten the main thing, the
                    cultivation of work; and history teaches that at last the slaves by their work
                    got ahead of their masters, so that slavery destroyed the latter and not the
                    former. It is also argued that  artificially bred
                    varieties of animals and plants are unable to preserve themselves in nature. But
                    here it is forgotten that these races are not selected for their own strength
                    and ability to fight their way in life, but only for the sake of certain
                    qualities which we desire for our own purpose, and that in making such a
                    selection we directly destroyed their fitness for the struggle for existence.
                  
            

            
              OBSCURE NERVOUS TAINT

              We must not forget the fact that we are not born artists, musicians, or scientists;
                we do not come into the world predestinated to be great men or small men, good men
                or bad men we are merely thrust into this world possessing a brain and nervous
                system more or less well organized,* and in general our character is destined to become largely what we make
                it by virtue of the manner in which we allow or compel ourselves to react to our
                environment. And so while it is will-power that so largely determines the manner in
                which we will respond to the various stimuli of our surroundings, nevertheless, the
                strength or weakness of the inherited nervous system, experience proves, goes a long
                way toward determining the outcome and final destiny of the individual's struggle
                with his own environment.

              In the case of many a nervous breakdown following some prolonged mental stress or
                severe physical strain, we are entirely too prone to take the patient's word for it
                that there is no neurotic taint in the family history. And so we are quick to make a
                diagnosis of accidental or acquired neurasthenia and charge it all up to a severe
                attack of influenza, overwork, business difficulties, family trouble, etc.; whereas
                a painstaking search back into the patient's heredity would have in almost every
                case disclosed a smoldering neurotic fire, which only required the occasion of
                environmental stress or accidental strain to fan it into an immediate and full
                fledged neurasthenic conflagration; 
                *It should be borne in
                  mind that the brain and nervous system of the new-born child are practically all
                  there at birth-- that is, while the individual cells of all the other tissues of
                  the body multiply and greatly increase in number, those of the nervous system only
                  develop and grow-- there occurs little or no increase in the number of
                  cells.
                 and so the possibilities of the whole nervous smashup
                were all the while concealed within the very cells and fibers of the brain and
                nervous system which constituted his hereditary legacy landed down through the
                ancestors of preceding generations. It not infrequently develops that a case of
                "nerves" which so perplexes us in a certain individual is quite easily understood
                when we have an opportunity to peep into the home of this patient's family and thus
                observe in brother or sister the diverse outcropping of this same neurotic
                taint.
            

            
              PSYCHOPATHIC FAMILIES

              It is the author's experience, that in nine cases out of ten true neurasthenic
                belongs to a psychopathic family, in which there is an unfailing history of neurotic
                manifestations as one goes back in the ancestral archives, there discovering an
                increasing panorama of neurotic disturbances ranging all the way from common nervous
                sick-headache up to epilepsy and insanity.

              When the inherited nervous tendencies of an individual are once finally determined
                by the union of the parental germ cells, there then comes the embryological period
                during the pregnancy of the mother. The hygiene of pregnancy is really a question of
                good, healthy nourishment. Here also as well as during the time the child is
                nourished through the mother's milk, all poisonings, especially alcoholic poisoning,
                are extremely injurious. Von Bunge has even shown that alcoholism in the ancestors
                seriously cripples even the woman's ability to nurse her offspring. It is a
                reprehensible and ruinous practice to give pregnant women and nursing mothers
                alcohol to drink, for it injures the embryo and the child tremendously. Diseases,
                emotional excitements, nutritional disturbances, and everything also that injures
                the bodily health and especially the nervous life of the mother, naturally have more
                or less of an indirect effect upon the life of the embryo, in just the same manner
                and for the same reason that the nervous and physical condition of the nursing
                mother will directly affect the health and behavior of the infant that feeds at her
                breasts. Such instances have nought to do with heredity-- it is a matter of
                chemistry and contagion.
            

            

            
              PRE-NATAL INFLUENCE AND BIRTH MARKS

              Incidentally, in this connection, it should be stated that the hereditary
                influences which work to shape the nervous system of the child are all in operation
                at the time the germ cells (sex cells) are originated within the organisms of the
                parents. The determiners for the child's nervous system are all formed and completed
                in the germ cells at the time conception takes place. The child's brain and nervous
                system is only developed by growth during the nine months of pregnancy. The fact
                that the mother may read her Bible incessantly during the period of pregnancy will
                not contribute to producing either a studious or pious offspring. Such tendencies
                were determined long before in accordance with a law of hereditary determiners,
                present in the male and female germ cells at the time the new life was
                inaugurated.

              It should be further stated in this connection that the supposed productions of
                malformations, birthmarks; etc., as a result of alarming experiences on the part of
                a pregnant woman have long since been proven to be wholly fallacious. It is entirely
                within the bounds of scientific conservatism to state that the entire doctrine of
                "birthmarks" has been proven fictitious, and that the mental frights and other
                emotional experiences of the pregnant woman can have no more direct influence in the
                production of "birthmarks," or in injuring the nervous system of the foetus, than
                could the fact of a setting hen becoming suddenly frightened, in any way result in
                changing the course of predetermined development taking place in any one of the eggs
                on which she might be setting.
            

            
              HEREDITY, ENVIRONMENT, AND EDUCATION

              We are compelled to accept the fact that heredity is the base of the neurasthenic
                triangle. The two sides are represented by environment and education. (Fig. 2.) And we must further recognize
                the possibility of largely overcoming the results of even the combined influence of
                both heredity and environment by the persistent training of the mind and nervous
                system to obey the mandates of an enlightened and energized will. Self-training and
                self-mastery, as will be shown later, 
                
                  Fig. 2. The Neurasthenic Triangle
                
                
                 be able to exert a marvelous power, enabling us even
                to escape the direful consequences of what would otherwise prove to have been a
                pernicious heredity and a. fatal environment.

              Parents not only owe their children a biologic duty to endow them with a normal
                nervous mechanism at or before birth, but also do they owe their children a
                sociologic debt which can only be paid by the proper conservation and training of
                that nervous system, and this includes the protection of the child from morbid
                fears, injurious emotional excitement, and other excesses and abuses of the nervous
                system, including the sexual functions, which would tend to break down or weaken the
                nervous vitality, predispose to neurasthenia, thus jeopardizing the child's future
                health and happiness.

              In this day of high nervous tension and constantly increasing neurasthenia, the
                duty devolves upon parents, as never before, to keep close to their children
                maintaining a perfect understanding between parent and child, thus contributing to
                that natural and even development of the nervous system which is essential to strong
                vitality and vigorous will-power later in life.
            

            
              HEREDITY FEAR

              Many unfortunate nervous sufferers live in constant fear of numerous supposedly
                hereditary diseases. They fear they are destined to die of cancer, tuberculosis, or
                some other dreadful and malignant disease. Such imaginary sufferers should come to
                know that practically no known disease is hereditary-- as such; that while certain
                local and general defects present in the ancestral strain are inherited, acquired
                characteristics and definite diseases are not inherited. This has been aptly put by
                some one who said, "wooden heads may be inherited, but wooden legs are not."

              The average neurasthenic who may possibly have inherited some tendency in a general
                way towards his nervousness, should thoroughly understand that he has not inherited
                and cannot inherit any one of the many serious disorders which he imagines afflict
                him and which he further imagines descended down upon him from his otherwise honored
                and respected ancestors.
            

            

            

              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER
              
                 A neurotic history will be found in the ancestral strains of
                  practically all psychasthenes and the majority of neurasthenes; but not all the
                  offspring of neurotic parents are thus affected.

                 Many so-called "sorrowful souls" inherit their melancholy disposition.
                  They are born martyrs to heredity.

                 Vicious environment, persistent overwork, and a greedy ambition,
                  coupled with a latent hereditary neurotic tendency, are responsible for many
                  nervous breakdowns.

                 Pleasure-madness-- self-gratification-- lies at the bottom of many a
                  case of "nerves."

                 The complexities of modern business and the complications of
                  present-day society both work together for the production of nervous exhaustion in
                  certain predisposed individuals.

                 Neurasthenia is a part of the price the race is paying for the rapid
                  progress and development of our twentieth century civilization.

                 Weaklings, neurotics, and defectives are apparently on the increase,
                  while will-power and self-mastery-- control of the emotions and the passions--
                  seem to be decreasing.

                 Every human being enters this world with an inheritance of strong
                  nerves or weak nerves; and their method of reacting to their environment
                  constitutes the determining factor of nervous vitality.

                 It is often difficult to differentiate between hereditary and acquired
                  nervousness. Inherited nervous taint tends to disappear, if neurotic factors are
                  not added in each succeeding generation.

                 The "germ plasm" (sex cells) contain the secrets of heredity. Their
                  conservation is the sacred duty of the race. They transmit the in-bred traits of
                  the stock, but not the recently acquired characteristics.

                 "Natural selection" may obtain in the animal kingdom; but modern
                  civilization renders necessary the "selection of science" in order to strengthen
                  and upbuild the race.

                 Will-power largely determines the manner of our response to nervous
                  stimuli; its strength or weakness being regulated by inherited tendencies; thus is
                  determined the result of the individual's battle with environment.

                 The neurasthenic's legacy of nerve cells and fibres contain the
                  potential possibilities of the neurotic conflagration which was ignited by
                  environmental stress or accidental strain.

                 Ninety per cent of neurasthenics belong to psychopathic families,
                  whose ancestral archives contain a rich assortment of neurotic taints.

                 The use of alcohol by the mother greatly influences the  nervous system of both the unborn child and the
                  nursing infant.

                 At the time of conception the "sex cells" contain those hereditary
                  determiners which so powerfully regulate future behavior. Growth only is affected
                  by the period of pregnancy.

                 Conventional teachings regarding pre-natal influence are largely
                  without foundation. The doctrine of "birth-marks" has been proven
                  fictitious.

                 Heredity is the base of the neurasthenic triangle. Environment and
                  education represent the other two sides.

                 Will training and self-mastery go a long way toward delivering
                  neurotic sufferers from the terrible results of both heredity and
                  environment.

                 Parents owe their children a biologic duty, first to impart and then
                  subsequently to train their nervous systems in such a manner as to safeguard them
                  from neurotic tendencies.

                 The neurasthenic's fear of inherited diseases is a delusion. As the
                  term is used by science, definite diseases are not directly hereditary.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER III INFLUENCE OF THE PHYSICAL HEALTH
              ON THE MIND

            WHILE we recognize that the mind holds the balance of power and
              control over many of the complicated physical processes which are concerned in health
              and disease, nevertheless, we are forced to give almost equal recognition to the
              powerful and dominating-- sometimes tyrannical-- control of the mind by a diseased and
              disordered body.

            
              SUNSHINE AND CHEERFULNESS

              There can be little doubt that lack of sunlight is often responsible for a lack of
                mental cheerfulness. There is more than an accidental relationship between the
                sunshine of the body and the sunshine of the soul. Indoor living predisposes to
                mental despondency; and a sedentary life, in many cases, leads directly to moral
                depression. There is a direct relation between the physical darkness of the slum
                tenement and the spiritual darkness and moral depravity of those who dwell
                therein.

              Sunshine is the fountain of physical energy and the well-spring of mental cheer,
                and it even contributes indirectly to strengthening the moral courage. Sunshine in
                the home favors sunshine in the soul. Sunny homes help to make sunny people-- happy
                and healthy people.

              Even the cloudy day, but a passing incident in our lives, markedly influences the
                temper and disposition of many persons. It is doubtful if the best of people are as
                generous and philanthropic on a nasty, rainy day, as they are on a sunshiny
                afternoon of a beautiful summer's day.
            

            
              FRESH AIR AND THE MENTAL STATE

              The mental powers of the children of the slums are retarded by lack of fresh air
                and sunshine. When the brain is stuffy  the mental
                action is slow, and the memory sluggish; the mind cannot be ventilated unless the
                lungs be ventilated; and the lungs cannot be ventilated unless the living or working
                rooms also be ventilated. The proper lighting and ventilation of the schoolroom is
                directly concerned in the mental development and the intellectual training of the
                children in attendance. Many persons suffer all day from mental dullness, and gain
                the reputation of possessing a mean disposition, as the result of breathing all
                night the foul and polluted atmosphere of an unventilated sleeping room.

              The breathing of impure air directly and powerfully influences the mind. It will be
                recalled how many a lecture or sermon, good in itself, was utterly spoiled because
                the hearers were breathing the foul air of an unventilated audience room. Scientific
                ventilation, especially during the winter, would add much to the success, happiness,
                and religious enjoyment of many persons who are morose, depressed, and even
                melancholic, as the result of their voluntary imprisonment in their miserably
                ventilated living rooms.

              Oxygen feeds the vital fires which effectually burn up the poisons of the living
                machine. These poisons when not properly burned up (oxidized) prove equally powerful
                in the work of depressing both mind and body. The vast majority of the toxins of
                disordered metabolism and deranged nutrition prove to be mind poisons as well as
                body poisons. Insanity as well as paralysis frequently follows in the wake of raging
                fevers and prolonged infections.

              Considered from every possible standpoint, mental vigor and moral health are
                greatly lessened by the indoor living of modern civilization; while the outdoor
                life, in every way, supplies conditions which favor the highest degree of mental
                strength and moral efficiency.
            

            
              DEEP BREATHING AND BRAIN ACTION

              The normal action of the lungs has much to do with the healthy action of the mind.
                Deep breathing favors deep thinking while the shallow breathers are condemned to
                inevitable shallow thinking. Healthy brain action is dependent upon the  normal supply of good, red blood. Deep breathing
                purifies the blood and favors its circulation through the brain. If the brain is not
                properly nourished with pure blood, the mind is directly influenced and greatly
                crippled in its operation.

              All victims of despondency, all downcast and crestfallen, people are shallow
                breathers. Deep breathing purifies the blood and sends it tingling through the blood
                vessels of the brain, where it washes away the poisonous excretions and nourishes
                the nerve cells with its life-giving qualities. A ventilated and nourished brain
                cell is absolutely essential to normal and satisfactory mental action.

              There can be little doubt that bad breathing and worry go together. Getting rid of
                one usually helps in overcoming the other. Shallow breathing beclouds the mind by
                favoring a retention of blood poisons, thereby placing heavy and unnecessary burdens
                upon the moral nature.
            

            
              PHYSICAL EXERCISE AND MENTAL ACTION

              More or less body work is indispensable to first-class brain work. Physical
                exercise increases the circulation, favors digestion, promotes elimination, in fact
                facilitates all those bodily processes, the proper performance of which are so
                essential to a healthy brain and a vigorous mind. Body work favors deep breathing
                and deep breathing promotes mental action.

              Physical exercise greatly aids in the burning up of bodily poisons and thus
                relieves the mind from the depression which so surely results from the accumulation
                of these toxic substances in the blood stream. Systematic exercise will do much to
                help in the acquisition of a pleasant disposition and an agreeable temperament.
                Regular exercise-- a daily sweat-- will contribute much to mental peace and the
                enjoyment even of one's religion.

              Overworking the body produces mental weariness, as well as physical fatigue. The
                industrial slave, toiling in the sweat shop, exhibits equal evidence of mental
                deterioration and physical disease. The abuse of the physical powers inevitably
                reacts in the lessening of the mental vigor. Muscle, mind, and morals are all inter
                related.
            

            

            
              THE MIND AS INFLUENCED BY THE DIGESTION

              The stomach probably exerts a greater influence over the mind than any other
                physical organ, except the brain. At certain times, when the mind is almost
                dethroned by a distracting pain in the cranium, the sufferer could truly be said to
                have a "stomach ache" in the head. The stomach, as the portal of entry for all
                nourishment of the body, is able to contribute much either for or against the mental
                health and the moral happiness of the individual. The nerve which so abundantly
                supplies the stomach, liver, lungs, and heart-- the pneumogastric nerve-- also sends
                branches to the meninges, the covering membrane of the brain.

              Many persons who are regarded as cross and crabbed, who are looked upon as
                possessing an unbearable disposition, whose minds are commonly regarded as
                altogether ignoble and cruel-- are merely suffering from a chronic, dyspeptic
                grouch; and it will be a hard matter for orthodox religion or any of its twentieth
                century counterfeits, or any other genuine or fraudulent system of mental healing,
                to relieve such persons of their mental disorders until the stomach, liver, and
                bowels are set in order.

              A sour stomach usually means a sour disposition. Intestinal fermentation commonly
                ends in intellectual fermentation. In order to sweeten up the mental process, we
                must sweeten up the digestive process.

              g Many failures in business, college, family life, and religion, if the facts were
                known, could be rightfully charged up to disordered nutrition-- dyspepsia and
                constipation.. It is altogether impossible to have peace in the head and war in the
                stomach. Coarse eating and fine thinking are incompatible.
            

            
              BILIOUSNESS AND BRAIN BEHAVIOR

              Biliousness is a disease by no means limited to the body. When one is bilious, the
                brain is bilious, the mind is forced to operate through a bilious brain and over a
                bilious nervous system, and that is exactly why one looks bilious, acts bilious, and
                talks bilious-- the brain is jaundiced as well as the skin.

              The liver is the body's poison-destroyer-- the metabolic garbage crematory-- and
                when it fails properly to do its work,  when it is
                overworked, lazy, or torpid, the blood is literally flooded with toxins and poisons,
                and soon the brain becomes torpid, the mind lazy and the thoughts sordid.

              Even the powers of memory are directly influenced by indigestion, biliousness, and
                acidity of the blood. Many persons suffering from dyspepsia and indigestion,
                supposing their memory to be failing from old age, have found their mental energies
                restored and their thinking powers renewed, after the successful treatment of their
                distressing stomach difficulties and liver disorders.
            

            
              THE INFLUENCE OF EATING ON THINKING

              While we acknowledge as true the proverb, "As a man thinketh, so is he," we are
                compelled also to recognize the truthfulness of that old German saying, "As a man
                eateth, so is he."

              Maximum mental efficiency demands that intelligent attention be given to the diet.
                Balanced thinking goes hand in hand with balanced eating. Pure food is a direct aid
                to pure thoughts.

              Overeating, hasty eating, and the eating of indigestible foods, all detract from
                brain power and mental efficiency. The animal world-- a cow for instance-- can spend
                all its nervous energy and vital strength in the work of digesting food. Animals are
                able to keep the stomach working all day long. They seldom suffer from indigestion
                or dyspepsia. The animal has only a physical life to lead; but man is a mental
                being, a moral creature, an intelligent animal, with a social career to carve out
                and industrial battles to fight; and, therefore, the human animal must plan to
                conserve its nervous energy and physical powers so as properly to support its
                intellectual activities in the arena of mind and morals-- to enable the man
                successfully to perform in the theater of society and commerce.

              Fiery foods-- foods which are hot when they are cold-- not only irritate and
                inflame the stomach, but when carried to the brain in the blood stream, favor the
                production of fiery thoughts.
            

            
              THE BLOOD STREAM AND THE MIND

              It is self-evident that brain action is dependent upon heart action. The mind is
                bound to be affected by circulatory  disturbances,
                elevation of the blood-pressure, or congestion of the blood in any organ of the
                body. Diseases of the blood, such an anaemia, produce anaemia of the brain and
                emaciation of the mind.

              Elevation of the blood-pressure is often associated with depression of the
                thoughts. An unusually low blood-pressure is usually associated with the mental
                states characterizing neurasthenia and brain fag. The various drugs, such as tobacco
                and cocaine, which raise the blood-pressure, as well as the alcohol and morphine
                group, which lower the pressure, are all powerful in their deteriorating effect upon
                the mind. In fact, all states of systemic poisoning or auto-intoxication, result in
                more or less derangement of the mental action.

              The myriads of microbes which inhabit the large intestine of man are often
                responsible for much of the mental sluggishness and moral depression from which many
                persons suffer. When these germs are too long retained in the bowel-- when their
                number is greatly increased by gormandizing, constipation, or a too high protein
                diet-- there is increased production and absorption of toxins which are responsible
                for many disturbances of the mind and body, including sleeplessness, bad breath,
                brownish tint of the skin, headache, mental inaction, loss of memory, and moral
                despondency.
            

            
              METABOLISM AND MIND

              Many strong minds, vigorous intellects, are held down and handicapped by the
                crippled assimilative powers of the physical body. Any practice which favors food
                assimilation-- thorough mastication of the food and all other dietetic helps-- in
                the end will prove of great value in strengthening the mind and increasing the
                health-seeker's self-control.

              In chronic indigestion and stomach trouble, with their resultant starvation and
                anaemia, we have brain starvation-- mental emaciation. Many a giant intellect has
                been effectually starved out and prematurely killed by the combined terrors of
                dyspepsia and the poisons absorbed as a result of chronic constipation.

              Both physicians and criminologists are coming more and more  to believe that there is a direct relation between decomposing food in
                the digestive apparatus and mental perversity; the results are variously exhibited
                and extend all the way from violent outbursts of temper down to criminal
                depredations and brutal tendencies.
            

            
              ELIMINATION AND BRAIN ACTION

              Healthy, vigorous brain action is dependent upon normal elimination of body wastes;
                and normal elimination of wastes is dependent largely upon systematic water-drinking
                and regular bathing. Bathing is an antidote for the wearing of clothes and the
                sedentary life of modern civilized nations.

              The proper action of the kidneys in the elimination of poisons, and the liver in
                their destruction, is essential to the healthy and normal action of the mind. A
                cloudy, dingy skin usually means cloudy thinking.

              There is a direct relation between skin action and brain action. When the skin is
                pale and anaemic, the brain, as a rule, is congested and sluggish. The red glow of
                the skin is usually associated with mental vigor, while the pale skin is not
                infrequently accompanied by puny thinking.
            

            
              REST AND RECREATION IN RELATION TO THE MIND

              The accumulation of energy granules in the neuron, the recuperation of the depleted
                vitality of the nervous system, the restoration of the brain's power to respond to
                the dictates of the mental powers, are all dependent upon regular rest and
                refreshing sleep. Loss of sleep quickly shows its reaction upon the mind, dulling
                the intellect, dimming the mental vision, and destroying even the moral
                concepts.

              Regular recreation and an annual vacation are indispensable to first-class brain
                work. A regular rest day, once a week, and even a half holiday in the middle of the
                week, are both of great value in producing strong and healthy mind control.
            

            
              BODY DISEASE AND BRAIN DISORDERS

              Attention should also be called to the fact that all definite physical diseases
                result in more or less derangement of the mind.  In all
                acute fevers and infectious diseases the mental powers are enfeebled, the mind is
                more or less distorted, the symptoms ranging from mild derangement up to raving
                delirium. The majority of poisonous disease toxins are alike disturbing to the mind
                and body.

              Typhoid fever and many other serious infections predispose to mental disturbances,
                and are occasionally followed by insanity. Pellagra has a terminal stage which
                closely borders on the insane state., Malaria not only racks the body, but also
                markedly affects the mental activities.

              )The social diseases constituting the great black plague, of which syphilis is
                chief, not only affect the body, but also react upon the mind, even to the point of
                producing tumors and softening of the brain.

              Heart and lung diseases always affect the mind, the former producing unusual fear
                and depression, while the latter is characterized by a fatal optimism. The mental
                activity is also in measure influenced by most of the chronic diseases, such as
                rheumatism and gout, not only because of the pain associated with these afflictions,
                but also because of the toxins and poisons circulating in the blood which are
                probably primarily responsible for these disorders.

              That the mind is influenced by the body is shown by both extremes of bodily weight.
                There can be little question that obese, abnormally fat persons, as well as the
                thin, emaciated and cadaverous, have their peace of mind and intellectual activity
                more or less interfered with, as the result of their bodily state.
            

            
              PHYSICAL CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE CHILD'S HEALTH

              When a child has rickets of the bones, his physical condition unfavorably affects
                the mental development., In other words, the child with rickets is rickety in mind
                as well as in body.

              Recent investigations afford positive proof that adenoids in the child interfere
                with the development of the brain, and thus more or less permanently cripple the
                mentality of the child. Various other minor afflictions of childhood may similarly
                affect the mental development, such as chronic tonsilitis, chronic earache, and any
                other maladies.

              

              No one will seriously question the fact that pain invariably exerts a deleterious
                influence upon the mind. Intellectual activity and mental usefulness are restricted
                or well-nigh destroyed by severe or long continued pain in any part of the body,
                resulting from any cause whatsoever.

              Minor disturbances or bony growths in the nose may result in persistent chronic
                headaches, which greatly interfere with peace of mind and mental usefulness. We have
                known of persons suffering from headache for years, who were immediately relieved by
                the removal of a bony growth from the nose, or by the straightening of a crooked
                nasal septum.
            

            
              OLD AGE AND THE DUCTLESS GLANDS

              There can be no more marked illustration of the effect of the body upon the mind
                than in the case of arteriosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries. This harbinger
                of old age not only results in producing those familiar manifestations of physical
                decay which characterize senility, but they also result in producing a state of
                comparative brain starvation. The mind is under-nourished, all the mental powers are
                enfeebled, the memory is weakened and we are brought face to face with that pathetic
                picture of increasing mental weakness commonly denominated "second childhood."

              There can be little doubt that the various internal secreting glands such as the
                pituitary body, thymus gland, thyroid gland, suprarenal gland, the sexual glands,
                etc., are all concerned in powerfully influencing the mind, temperament, and
                disposition. Witness the mental inaction, the idiotic expression of the cretin-- the
                child whose thyroid gland is not functionating normally. Observe the marked mental
                and temperamental changes which result from the disease or removal of the sexual
                glands, by depriving the brain of the influence of their internal secretions.

              The effect of the various nervous diseases upon the mind is self-evident.
                Paralysis, various spinal diseases, neuritis and neuralgias all very directly and
                markedly affect the mind. Victims of paraesthesia-- those who feel various pricking,
                burning or itching sensations in different parts of the body-- are often driven
                almost to distraction by these abnormal manifestations.

              

              Mental action is even interfered with by eye strain and many other common disorders
                affecting some part of the nervous system.

              In fact, every physical practice of the individual and the entire life conduct,
                react either favorably or unfavorably upon the mind. The young man may pass on gayly
                and heedlessly sowing his wild oats in the seedtime of youth, but in the harvest
                time of after life not only must the body pay a physical penalty for the follies of
                ignorance and sin, but the mind also is forced to share in the painful and sorrowful
                harvest.

              Even worry is often caused by the bodily state, there being a whole group of worry
                causes which may properly be termed physical causes. These will be more fully
                considered in the chapters devoted to worry.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The mind is recognized as holding the balance of control over numerous
                  physical processes; nevertheless, almost equal recognition must be accorded the
                  power of the bodily state in its influence over the mental operations.

                 While sunshine and good weather elevate the emotions, fogs and cloudy
                  weather universally depress the physical functions and decrease the mental
                  operations.

                 Fresh air, ventilation, and breathing are all concerned in the
                  development and operation of the intellectual powers. Oxygen is indispensable to
                  the operation of mind and body.

                 Shallow breathers are nearly always despondent and easily discouraged.
                  Deep breathing is conducive to deep thinking.

                 Regular body work is essential to first-class brain work. Physical
                  idleness leads to mental indolence. Physical development-- within physiological
                  limits-- favors mental development; on the other hand, overwork of the body leads
                  to mental fatigue as well as physical weariness.

                 The stomach, digestion, and dyspepsia all exert a profound influence
                  on the mental state. Sour stomach usually culminates in a sour disposition. It is
                  impossible to have peace in the head and war in the stomach.

                 Biliousness invariably deteriorates brain action; the brain is
                  jaundiced as well as the body. When the liver is torpid the mind soon follows
                  suit.

                 Thinking is directly related to eating. Gluttony and intemperance
                  react disastrously to the weakening of the mental powers. Table habits powerfully
                  influence thinking habits.

                

                 The blood is the life-- the life of mind as well as body. Mental
                  action is immediately influenced by fluctuations in blood pressure or alterations
                  of blood quality. Bodily anaemia is usually accompanied by intellectual
                  anaemia.

                 Self-poisoning or auto-intoxication is not infrequently mistaken for
                  moral perversity and mental insubordination. Contamination of the circulating
                  fluids of the body results in perverting the mental powers.

                 Many a giant intellect has been starved out or killed by the combined
                  terrors of dyspepsia and constipation. There is a direct relation between
                  putrefying footstuff in the digestive canal, and perversity of mental action in
                  the brain.

                 Bathing is an antidote for clothes and sedentary living. Elimination
                  is essential to healthy thinking. There is a direct relation between skin action
                  and brain action.

                 All acute diseases and all chronic disorders operate to weaken,
                  pervert, derange, or disease the mental action. There is not a single physical
                  disease that does not react unfavorably upon the mind. There can be no disorder of
                  body function without more or less derangement of mind action.
              
            
          

          
            
            CHAPTER IV POWER OF THE MIND OVER THE BODY*

            IT HAS long been recognized that the mental process carried on in
              the brain exerted more or less of an influence upon the physical functions carried on
              by the body; and full recognition has been given to the ability of the brain to direct
              the voluntary muscles in the performance of mechanical work, and to control numerous
              other voluntary and commonly performed actions; but not until recently was it fully
              understood just how far the mental attitude was responsible for or could directly
              influence the numerous complicated and delicate functions of the body which are
              involved in the maintenance of health and the prevention of disease. A French
              philosopher, Guyau, has well said: "He who does not act as he thinks, thinks
              badly."

            Can the mind in and of itself actually bring disease upon the body? Do we really have
              imaginary diseases? Can the mind actually cure disease? Could the mind really remove a
              physical disorder ?

            Likewise, questions on the other side of the issue: Can a physical disorder produce a
              mental disease? Can a sick body produce a sick mind? These, and many similar questions
              have engaged the attention of philosophers, physicians, and physiologists of the past,
              and will, undoubtedly, continue to engage their mention in the future.

            
              ANCIENT TEACHINGS

              Past teaching respecting the influence of the mind upon the body, has been clouded
                and distorted by the errors of superstition, 
                *For a more complete
                  discussion of the influence of the emotions on the physical organism, the reader
                  is referred to the Author's work, The Physiology of Faith and
                    Fear, chapters xi-xxiii.
                 the inaccuracies of ignorance, and the exaggerations
                of fanatical extremists, whose prejudiced observations and reports were more or less
                colored by commercial motives or sectarian enthusiasm. And so it was little wonder
                that teaching respecting mental healing grew into a mass of religious
                contradictions, unreliable observations, and groundless assertions. It has required
                much painstaking labor on the part of modern physiologists and psychologists to
                clear away this accumulation of rubbish and ignorance, and lay a scientific
                foundation for a rational system of mental hygiene based upon the known laws of mind
                and matter.

              Not in all cases do the mind and body react upon one another as might be thought,
                an observation well stated by Dubois, who wrote: First of
                    all, that between the physical condition and the mental condition, there is no
                    direct and necessary bond, entailing a constant parallelism between the physical
                    health and that of the mind. On the one hand we see weak, feeble, emaciated
                    diseases, presenting no symptom of neurasthenia or psychasthenia; these are
                    healthy minds in sick bodies; conversely one sees the various disorders of the
                    psychopathies succeeding each other in men of herculean frame, enjoying
                    excellent physical health, and who have not been subjected to any marked
                    debilitating influence. It is therefore false immediately to conclude the mental
                    integrity from the physical health, and always to seek in the body the cause of
                    the psychic disequilibrium.
            

            
              HOW THE MIND INFLUENCES THE BODY

              The scientific revelations of the last century have taught us that in the study of
                health and disease we must come to look upon man as a whole-- as a unit-- as an
                organized community of living cells. Each little fellow is a distinct and separate
                being, with a life of its own to live, and with its special individual work to carry
                on as long as it lives. We are coming more and more to understand that the health
                and happiness or the disease and distress of any cell or group of cells, is in a
                measure shared by all the other cells composing the body's common-wealth. That is,
                disorder in any cell or organ of the body, be it brain, liver, or lung, must in some
                measure unfavorably affect  every other cell of the
                body. If one member suffers, all must suffer more or less.

              This intimate association, this close interrelationship of all the cells of the
                human body, is effected through two separate and distinct channels: the circulatory
                system and the nervous system.

              1. The circulatory system-- chemical messages. Every cell of the
                physical economy is constantly giving out from its own tiny body certain secretions
                and excretions formed within itself, which are gathered up by the lymph, and after
                being admixed with the blood stream, in a diluted form, are in time carried to every
                other cell of the body. This constant interchange of cellular products creates a
                channel by which any cell or group of cells is able to send chemical
                  messages to any other cell or group of cells in the body; and in the
                aggregate it turns the circulating fluids of the body into a great chemical
                messenger carrying the messages from any cell to every and all other cells of the
                body.

              Many important bodily functions, we now know, are carried on in cooperation and
                coordination by means of these chemical messages which are carried from one part of
                the body to another by the body's circulating fluids. We now know that the
                pancreatic juice is secreted in obedience to just such a chemical message, which is
                sent out from the stomach and bowel.

              This "secretin" (as a class these substances are called hormones
                has been collected and when it is experimentally injected into the blood stream of
                an animal, it never fails to produce an immediate secretion and flow of both bile
                and pancreatic juice.

              It must be evident then, that by means of numerous chemical messengers various
                portions of the body are able profoundly to influence other parts of the body-- that
                is, one organ of the body may directly exert an inhibiting or a stimulating
                influence upon another organ. In this way, disease in any one organ of the body
                results in producing more or less of a diseased state in some or all of the organs
                of the body; and so it is literally true, that disease in any part of the body does
                result in more or less derangement of the health of the entire organism.

              Many cases of mental depression owe their existence, primarily,  to the circulation in the blood of certain poisons which
                have a tendency to raise the blood-pressure and at the same time lower the mental
                and moral courage of the individual. But powerful as are these means of chemical
                communication between the cells of the body, we have a still more important and
                intimate means of intercommunication between the various cells and organs of the
                body.

              2. The nervous system-- mental messages. Nearly all neurons or
                nerve cells possess two or more branches. One of these branches carries impulses
                from the nerve cell to other nerve cells or to special structures such as the
                muscles, while the other branch carries impressions to the nerve cell from the skin
                and other organs of sensation as well as from other nerve cells.

              It is estimated that there are over two billions of living nerve cells in the human
                brain and spinal cord, not to mention the untold millions of cells which are found
                in the sympathetic nervous system with its large central brain in the abdomen-- the
                solar plexus.

              It must be very clear that by means of these living wires-- these relays of cables
                which run to and from the brain, and which branch and re-branch until practically
                every active cell in the human body is supplied with its tiny little nerve-- through
                this channel of the nervous system any one part of the body can almost
                instantaneously influence any or every other part of the body for weal or woe.

              Let a person when quite hungry either smell or taste savory food. These pleasant
                impressions of taste and smell are quickly carried to the nervous headquarters-- the
                brain-- from whence orders are immediately despatched to the stomach to secrete the
                necessary gastric juice to digest the meal about to be eaten, and in obedience to
                this mental message which the mind sends down from the brain, there begins to be
                poured out into the stomach in about four and a half minutes, an abundance of strong
                gastric juice, which, in both quantity and quality, is just adapted to the appetite
                and the digestion of the food which was instrumental in provoking its secretion.

              Uncontrolled emotion may be compared to a river which has overrun its banks,
                spreading itself everywhere over the physical  domain
                in devastating torrents, carrying trouble to every vital organ and sensory mechanism
                of the body. This deluge of emotion not only creates functional nervous trouble by
                the intensity of the mental representations which it produces, but it engenders, by
                exhausting the nerve centers, real sensations, disagreeable or painful, which
                furnish new grounds for disturbing the mind of the patient, and thus effectually
                giving rise to new fears and other vexatious auto-suggestions.

              The human imagination possesses almost life and death power .shown by the following
                authentic newspaper clipping: 
                  IMAGINATION NEARLY COSTS MAN'S LIFE
                  --, Cal., Oct. 18. Imagination nearly killed Rex L. He applied to a druggist
                    for a vial of poison and his actions aroused the suspicion that he intended to
                    take his life. The druggist gave him harmless fluid.
                   He wrote a farewell note to his wife and drank the liquid. In few minutes he
                    was suffering all the agonies of poisoning. He was rushed to the county
                    hospital, where it was said today it would take a week for him to recover from
                    the shock. Hospital physicians say the illusion that he was suffering from the
                    effects of poisoning actually had brought the man to the brink of
                death.
            

            
              POWER OF THE EMOTIONS OVER THE CIRCULATION

              Under the influence of faith and its associated optimistic state (of mind, the
                strength of the heartbeat is strong, normal, and natural. Unusual mental buoyancy
                may even increase the heart strength. The vigor of the heart action increases hand
                in hand with the development of courage and the acquisition of confidence. On the
                other hand, fear and other phases of the mental state bordering on pessimism not
                infrequently tend actually to decrease the strength of the heart's action. Fear
                unfailingly demoralizes the cardiac functions and greatly weakens the power of the
                heartbeat. (Fig. 3, c.) Joy always
                increases the strength of the heart action, while terror never fails greatly to
                depress the heart, after a very brief initial period of excitability and rapid
                action. The cardiac rhythm is greatly influenced by the mental state, even to the
                point of producing palpitation.

              The mental state also exerts considerable influence upon the  heart's strength by determining the length of the pause between the
                heartbeats. Faith exerts a favorable influence upon the heart rate and rhythm by
                encouraging a natural and adequate rest between beats, thus enabling the heart to
                keep up its normal energy, and, in case of the weak heart, actually to gain in
                strength. In this way faith actually increases the endurance of the heart under
                stress and strain. Determination and courage are even able to postpone heart failure
                when the patient is at the very point of death.

              When the mind is moving in a natural and normal channel the small capillaries of
                the skin and internal organs execute a rhythmic, milking movement, which sends the
                blood bounding along through its channels. This action of the capillaries is of
                great aid to the heart, in fact it is known in medical science as the "peripheral
                heart." Next to hydrotherapy and massage, the mental state of the patient probably
                has more to do with controlling the circulation of the blood than any other single
                influence which can be brought to bear upon the human body.

              Careful observations and experiments go to show that by continuously concentrating
                the mind on one arm, the surface temperature of that member can actually be raised
                considerably above that of the other arm. This rise in temperature signifies the
                increased accumulation of blood in the part-- local congestion.

              Colonel Townsend was an Englishman who possessed the power of voluntarily causing a
                cessation of his heart beat. He was able to remain in a state of apparent death for
                a period of half an hour. Dr. Cheyne and Dr. Baynard, who were witnesses of such an
                act, state that they were unable to perceive any pulse or heart beat nor any
                respiratory movement, and that a clean mirror held to Townsend's mouth did not
                become dimmed. The physicians feared Townsend was dead, but after half an hour the
                heartbeat slowly returned, respiration set in, and the body began to move.
            

            
              INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON VITAL RESISTANCE

              There can now be little question of the fact that a vigorous, happy mental state,
                by its influence on both the nervous and circulatory systems, tends to increase the
                defensive activity of 
                
                  Fig. 3. How the body Betrays the Mind (After Lehmann)
                
                
                 the white blood cells. By favoring the healthy
                circulation of the blood, the white cells are protected from many influences which
                otherwise would depress and decrease their germ-destroying and life-saving
                activities. It is well known that any influence which causes a vigorous movement of
                the blood stream enhances their action in the work of destroying the microbes of
                disease. Fear depresses the circulation and favors the accumulation of metabolic
                acid poisons in the body, which condition not only decreases the activities of the
                white blood cells in their work of destroying germs, but actually tends to increase
                their pernicious activities in the direct destruction of the body cells.*

              Many a pale-faced woman would find speedy relief from her pallor, anaemia, and
                sluggish circulation by overcoming her downcast and despondent disposition-- by
                simply "cheering up."

              Faith by its stimulating action upon the circulatory and eliminative processes,
                greatly lessens the danger of the body from the results of the accumulation of these
                pernicious body poisons; while the depressing influence of fear not only favors
                their production and action, but, according to recent experiments, fear, worry, and
                anger are in themselves directly responsible for the production of certain special,
                subtle "fear toxins," which are exceedingly harmful to the human organism.

              Faith and fear seem to be able to influence the elaboration of the various
                antitoxins which the body produces to neutralize and combat the toxins of the
                various microbic maladies. Circulatory disturbances and nervous derangements of
                psychic origin indirectly react to retard the formation of anti-bodies and delay the
                production of these antitoxins.

              Faith, no doubt, is a material aid in resisting most infectious diseases. Fear has
                long been recognized as a very powerful factor in diseases of this sort,
                predisposing its victims to infection and to contraction of the various contagious
                and infectious maladies. Those who fear a disease most are most likely to catch it.
                Those who fear it least are less likely to contract it. Fear unfailingly interferes
                with the normal working of those processes essential to resisting disease.

              

              * See The
                  Science of Living, chapter xvi.
            

            

            
              SECRETION IN GENERAL

              Precise experimental inquiry and careful clinical observations have demonstrated
                beyond the shadow of a doubt that the physiology of secretion throughout the body is
                more or less influenced by the physic state; while certain special instances, such
                as the stomach secretions, are almost wholly and completely under mental control and
                nervous direction. The secretion of the saliva, the gastric juice, as well as that
                of the liver, and even the kidneys, is markedly influenced by the temperamental
                state of one's mind.

              Many a mother engaged in nursing her infant has had her milk dried up and has been
                compelled to wean the child as a result of chronic fear-- worry. Fear can not only
                diminish or stop the secretion of milk, but it is a well known fact that anger and
                fretting, grief and despondency, are able actually to change the character of the
                secretions of the mammary gland, so that the milk may become highly injurious or
                positively poisonous to the sucking child.
            

            
              INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON DIGESTION

              Faith-- expectant hunger-- produces an abundant flow of gastric juice from the
                secreting glands located in the walls of the stomach; while fear, grief, worry, and
                fretting invariably decrease the secretion and lessen the flow of the gastric juice.
                Chronic worriers and despondent patients usually suffer from deficient gastric juice
                and slow digestion.

              The pleasant emotions all favor the secretion of an increased quantity of gastric
                juice by their salutary influence upon a man's appetite and general good humor;
                while the depressing and surly frame of mind unfailingly contributes to decreasing
                the amount of the stomach's secretions.

              In his remarkable experiments upon dogs, Pawlow, the Russian physiologist,
                demonstrated that the secretion of the gastric juice during the first half of
                digestion is quite entirely regulated by the sense of taste and the keenness of the
                appetite. The presence of food in the stomach, with the exception of milk and
                certain meat and vegetable juices, produces no secretion of gastric juice whatever;
                whereas the thought of eating or the desire  to eat, or
                even the agreeable smell of food, produces an abundant flow of strong gastric juice
                in about four and a half minutes. This initial juice-- the only juice to be found in
                the stomach during the first half of digestion-- has therefore aptly been called
                "appetite juice" or "psychic juice."

              Recent experiments go to show that the "hunger contractions" of the stomach are
                quite largely under mental control. By the exercise of will power, or by diverting
                the mind, it is possible greatly to lessen and otherwise to control the behavior of
                the empty stomach when it is executing these peculiar movements known as "hunger
                contractions."

              Jacoby cites an interesting case in this connection:

              PSYCHIC VOMITING
              
                A drastic example of this nature (psychic vomiting) is furnished by the case of a
                  man of middle age, with no heredity taint and who never had been sick, who
                  arranged for a trip to Europe to obtain a much-needed vacation, and who about a
                  week before the time set for sailing, was taken with nausea and vomiting. His
                  malady increased from day to day and could not be controlled by treatment. The
                  most careful physical examination failed to reveal any cause for the trouble.
                  Finally, when no food of any kind could be retained, the trip had to be given up
                  as the patient was too ill to leave home.
                The distressing state persisted until the steamer had left without him, and then
                  all symptoms of illness disappeared at once. The abrupt change, together with
                  other facts, led me to believe the patient was suffering from a species of psychic
                  seasickness. Feeling well, the patient scoffed at that idea of the mental origin
                  of his trouble. The episode had been forgotten, when, six years later, a trip
                  abroad again was planned and cabins secured. A week before the time set for that
                  sailing, the same symptoms of nausea and vomiting recurred. This time the tickets
                  were given up after two days of illness, and again with the same result, cessation
                  of the symptoms. Since that time, as a result of many interviews and much
                  explanation through which the patient was made to realize the cause and to
                  understand the development of his attacks, he has been abroad without more than
                  the actual mal de mer which a stormy voyage entitled him to
                  have.
              

              There can no longer be any doubt that many cases of slow digestion and sluggish
                stomach work are in some measure, at  least, due to the
                unfortunate mental and nervous states of the sufferer. If the mind can be awakened
                and the spirits revived, such patients will immediately begin to show improvement,
                and many will pass on to full recovery.

              Fear exercises an influence of general depression over the entire process of
                digestion, including stomach and bowels. Fear and fright are able, temporarily, to
                paralyze the secretory functions and muscular activities of both stomach and
                intestines.
            

            
              MENTAL INFLUENCE ON METABOLISM

              If the mind is indeed able to influence the nutrition of the cell, it must be
                evident that it is able to influence and more or less control the entire nutrition
                and metabolism of the whole body. One of the first steps in the great process of
                metabolism: is digestion; and since the mind is able most markedly to control the
                digestion, it becomes very evident that the mental factor in metabolism must be
                large and powerful. Assimilation is the next important act in the conversion of the
                food into the living, tissues. Fear is able, temporarily, almost to paralyze the
                process of assimilation, and even oxidation; while chronic worry more or less
                permanently deranges the absorptive powers of the whole digestive system.

              The appetite controls and determines the strength of the digestive juices of the
                stomach; the appetite dictates the quantity and quality of the food eaten; and it is
                a well-known fact that the appetite is in a very large measure under psychic
                control. Who has not seen the invalid, void of appetite, brighten up and actually
                begin to eat and relish food on a daintily served tray? On the other hand, but in
                contrast with this salutary effect of faith upon the appetite, note the disastrous
                effect upon the patient's appetite when the food is improperly prepared or
                unacceptably served.
            

            
              EFFECT OF THE MIND ON THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM

              Faith unfailingly increases the energy and endurance of the muscles. The courageous
                man can actually perform more work in a given time than can he whose mind is filled
                with doubts and despondency. Fear decreases the power of the muscular system  to perform physical work; it diminishes muscular energy
                and lessens muscular endurance. Even mental work detracts from muscular power. (Fig. 2, d.)

              The effect of mind on muscle is nowhere better shown than in the bodily carriage.
                The man of faith walks with a bold carriage and a confident step. The gait is
                elastic; the physical poise is energized; and the bodily movement indicates courage
                and self-confidence. This is the picture presented by a healthy person walking along
                the street, whose mind is in a natural and normal state-- filled with faith and
                hope. In contrast with such a moving picture of muscular force and energy, let the
                reader recall the figure of some discouraged and disheartened man walking down the
                avenue. The carriage is weak and slovenly, the gait shuffling, and the step
                inelastic; the body is being fairly dragged along, every muscle weak and relaxed.
                The stamp of mental defeat has been transferred to the material body. The physical
                man reflects the picture of mental weakness, doubt, and defeat.

              Fear, like certain poisonous toxins, is able to produce spasmodic contractions of
                the muscles; especially is the fear state of mind able to provoke spasm of the
                involuntary muscles of the blood vessels and the digestive system. These abnormal
                tendencies to involuntary muscular contraction are directly responsible for numerous
                cases of pale skins, cold feet, and other disagreeable functional disturbances.

              All forms of fear and unhealthy emotion have a great influence on the muscles,
                especially of the face and hands. Expression, indeed, depends on contractions and
                relaxations of facial muscles. Cheerfulness favorably excites all the muscular
                system, and in its higher manifestations provokes laughter, dancing, jumping, and
                leaping; when more moderate, it causes the mouth and the eyes to become highly
                expressive of pleasure, the upper lip is elevated and the teeth are displayed. Joy
                brightens the eyes, expands the nostrils, raises the angles of the mouth, elevates
                the eyebrows, and energizes the vocal muscles, imparting a peculiar and
                characteristic expression to the voice-- in fact, inspires the whole body to an
                expression of happiness and satisfaction.

              The power of suggestion to influence the muscles is indicated  by the following clipping relative to a death from
                pseudo-hydrophobia.
            

            
              DIES FROM HYDROPHOBIA ALTHOUGH NOT WOUNDED

              Strain of Nursing Husband, Who Was Bitten by Dog, Causes Fatal
                Illness of Milwaukee Woman
              
                Milwaukee, Wis., Dec. 1.-- After suffering for weeks from shock caused by her
                  experience of nursing her husband until he died from hydrophobia, Mrs. N-- of
                  Kenosha, 28 years old, died in a Milwaukee hospital today.
                A year ago her husband was bitten by a pet dog, and a few months later developed
                  rabies. He grew steadily worse and the wife insisted on remaining at his bedside
                  when even the physician was afraid of his savage attacks.
                When he died she left the bedside a nervous wreck, and soon after developed
                  symptoms similar to those of her husband's malady. Although it is claimed she was
                  under a delusion, she imagined that her husband had bitten her, and she died in
                  the agonies which this would bring about.
              
            

            
              EFFECTS ON SKIN AND HEAT REGULATION

              The skin is one of the most important eliminative organs of the body. The psychic
                state, by its influence through the nerves and upon the circulation, is able very
                markedly to interfere with the normal process of elimination through the glands of
                the skin. Faith undoubtedly assists in skin elimination, while fear unquestionably
                hinders and hampers the process.

              Thousands of pale-skinned and anaemic persons suffering from indigestion, headache,
                and habitually cold hands and feet, would be wonderfully and immediately helped if
                they could but discover the secret of happiness and the source of mental peace if
                they would only "cheer up."

              Hirsch cites a drastic example illustrating the mental influence on heat
                regulation, mentioned by his former teacher, the physiologist Preyer, as proof of
                the possibility of an intentional auto-suggestion. Preyer recounted that he never
                allowed his study to be heated, but utilized his will power-- that is, his
                capability of auto-suggestion-- to eliminate the sensation of cold. By means of the
                auto-suggested sensation of warmth, it became  possible
                for him to work in comfort in a cold room and to bathe in ice-cold water.

              The sensations of heat and cold are entirely based on the reports furnished by the
                temperature nerves resident in the skin. When faith dominates the mind, the
                temperature sense of the skin carries on its work after the natural, normal fashion.
                Fear never fails, to derange this important part of the heat-regulating mechanism.
                Fear and fright are able to produce actual goose-flesh appearance of the skin.
                Mental disturbances have been shown to be able wholly or partially to abolish the
                sensations of heat and cold. The appearance of goose-flesh from psychic stimuli
                constitutes ample proof of the direct power of the mind over involuntary or
                unstriped muscle.
            

            
              RESPIRATION AND THE MENTAL STATE

              Faith and courage induce deep breathing. The respiration of the optimist is usually
                regular, slow, and deep. The victims of fear and fright are nearly always shallow
                breathers, the respiratory action being quick and irregular. Nearly all sufferers
                from the "blues" are observed to be superficial breathers, while the man who has a
                pleasant and hopeful disposition is almost invariably found to be a deep
                breather.

              Good cheer and optimism help in the development of the chest. Men of courage and
                women of faith, as a rule, possess strong, robust, and well developed chests. Their
                lung capacity is usually above the average. The unfortunate and melancholic victims
                of fear, grief, and worry almost invariably suffer from a depression of the chest as
                well as depression of spirits.

              Faith and fear indirectly influence both the strength and capacity of the lungs, by
                their power to modify the depth of breathing, and,consequently to control the
                development of the chest. The cringing and fearful devotees of grief and worry
                unfailingly exhibit an unnatural and abnormal mode of breathing. These fearful ones
                are prone to employ chest or thoracic breathing to the neglect or exclusion of the
                abdominal or diaphragmatic element of natural respiration. Even mental application
                markedly affects the breathing. (Fig. 3, e
                  and f.)

              It is a well-known fact that the mind can immediately and  strongly influence those modified and special respiratory manifestations
                known as coughing and sneezing. A very large percentage of common, chronic, hawking
                coughs are largely perpetuated by the mental state, coupled with the force of habit.
                Fear-attention is certainly able to generate and maintain a formidable cough.

              The mental state is equal to or greater than fatigue in its power to produce
                yawning. The tendency to yawn is greatly increased by suggestion; but hiccupping is
                not so easily produced or cured by suggestion. It is a common experiment for one to
                yawn repeatedly and audibly, especially during the course of the evening when in the
                presence of a small company of people, and in five minutes from one-half to
                three-fourths of the entire number will have begun to yawn.

              An interesting case, reported by Moll, is that of an opera singer without organic
                heart or lung disease, who maintained that whenever she was in a closed room she
                suffered from shortness of breath and an attack of suffocation, which disappeared at
                once when a window was opened and fresh air came into the room. Medical treatment
                had failed to relieve her of this evidently functional trouble. One evening after a
                performance she came home ill and went to bed at once. After a few hours she awoke
                with all manifestations of severe respiratory oppression. The only means of relief,
                she thought, would be the opening of a window, but she felt too weak to get up. In
                her fear the oppression would increase, she took up a candlestick standing near her
                bedside and threw it, as she believed, at the window. The noise of broken glass
                falling to the floor indicated the accomplishment of her purpose. At once she felt
                very much relieved by the "inflow" of fresh air and quickly went to sleep. The next
                morning awaking well and refreshed, she saw to her great surprise that it was not
                the window which had been broken but a looking glass hanging beside it; that,
                therefore, there had been no inrush of fresh air, and that the relief from her
                oppression, as well as its origin, had been due entirely to her imagination. From
                that time she really was cured and these attacks of oppression no longer
                occurred.

              )The mind is able greatly to influence both asthma and hay-fever, yet it should not for one moment be supposed that these diseases
                are purely mind disorders; they usually represent a real physical disturbance or
                nervous derangement, nevertheless, numerous cases are on record where both of them
                have been entirely cured or greatly relieved by suggestion. On the other hand,
                numerous attacks of asthma and hay-fever have undoubtedly been precipitated by false
                fears.
            

            
              INFLUENCE OF THE EMOTIONS ON BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM

              Faith promotes those physical conditions of the brain which lend themselves to
                clear and decisive mental action, while fear reacts on both brain and mind, to the
                disorder of one and the confusion of the other. Worry invariably beclouds the mental
                activities and renders the brain action more or less sluggish. The mental activities
                of the modern civilized races have become increasingly intense. Today men and women
                whose brains act promptly and decisively are at a premium. The care-free and the
                joyous are able to do a vast amount of taxing brain work, experiencing but little
                mental fatigue; whereas the victims of grief and worry find themselves on the verge
                of brain fag after engaging in the most ordinary mental activities. Even such a
                serious nervous disorder as paralysis agitans is thought to be
                caused largely by chronic worry.

              The emotions produce literal changes in the brain. Crile, in reporting his
                experiments and observations in this matter says:  A long
                    series of laboratory experiments on animals subjected, some to emotional
                    excitation, and others to physical trauma under anesthesia, showed that
                    identical brain-cell changes were caused in each case. That is, both physical
                    and psychic stimulation exhaust the physical substance of the brain cells.
                    Emotional stimulation not only cause brain-cell deteriorations, but produce also
                    an increase of the internal activating secretions-- epinephrin, thyroid
                    secretion, glycogen-- a vital point in cases of hypertension. In every
                way faith permits and favors sound and refreshing sleep, while fear and worry are
                responsible for that type of unnatural and disturbed rest which is almost invariably
                associated with mental depression. Grief and anxiety are able so greatly  to disturb the circulation and other physical conditions
                in the brain as temporarily to drive away the ability to sleep.

              The action of the nerve centers is dependent on the quantity and quality of the
                energy granules which are found in the cell bodies of the neurons. Fear undoubtedly
                possesses the power of prematurely discharging and extravagantly using up the energy
                reposed in these so-called energy granules. It has been conclusively shown that the
                victims of fear are invariably visited with premature nervous exhaustion and
                untimely mental fatigue.
            

            
              FEAR IN RELATION TO NEURASTHENIA

              Faith increases the power of the mind to control the nervous system evenly and
                continuously. Self-possession steadies the nerves. Fear weakens the mind's control
                of the nervous system, unsteadies the nerves and in some cases produces actual
                tremors. Many cases of so-called neurasthenia are entirely due to an unsettled and
                abnormal state of the intellect. If such patients could only focus their minds on
                something outside of themselves and busy their hands with some useful and agreeable
                work, they would almost immediately find themselves relieved of their distressing
                nervous affliction.

              Sincere faith and optimistic trustfulness appear actually to strengthen the nerves.
                The mind probably exerts this favorable influence over the nerve centers by
                conserving the nervous energy and economizing the expenditure of the energy granules
                found in the neuron, as well as by lessening useless nerve impulses and decreasing
                unnecessary muscular movements. On the other hand, fear decreases the nervous
                strength. Anxiety and worry are among the leading causes of neurasthenia.

              Faith facilitates nervous recuperation and in a general way increases the nutrition
                of the nerves and nerve centers. When the mind is peaceful the nerve units are able
                to carry on their work with an expenditure of a minimum amount of energy. Fear is
                responsible for useless and wasteful nervous action; it squanders the nerve energy.
                Worry produces a sort of nerve starvation in consequence of the premature and
                extravagant expenditure of the energy granules contained in the body of the nerve
                cell.

              

              Faith energizes and invigorates the nervous functions. Fear diminishes, retards,
                even paralyzes the nervous activities. Faith and determination have cured many a
                case of supposed genuine paralysis. Thousands of people are suffering from
                pseudo-paralysis; they were paralyzed at one time, but have gotten well and never
                discovered the fact.
            

            
              MENTAL INFLUENCE OVER THE SPECIAL SENSES

              Faith and courage, confidence and calmness, never fail to increase one's hunger and
                sharpen the appetite. Good cheer creates a demand for food as well as satisfaction
                in partaking of the same. Fear, together with other morbid and sordid mental states,
                lessens the appetite, blunts the taste, depresses hunger, and sometimes completely
                abolishes the desire for food. (Note how taste influences the pulse as shown in Fig.
                3, a and b.)

              A pleasant frame of mind undoubtedly enhances the sense of smell, while fear may so
                paralyze this special sense as greatly to decrease or entirely prevent one's ability
                to detect common odors. Not only does fear possess the power of crippling or
                inhibiting the sense of smell, but it is also actually able to create false odors;
                that is, to cause one to smell fictitious and imaginary odors.

              Self-confidence and moral peace never fail to render the hearing more acute. In
                fact, faith has cured many a case of hysteric deafness. It is a well-known fact that
                nervous people, whose minds are constantly in a state of agitation, are not able to
                appreciate good music as are those with a quiet and composed mental state.

              Fear is also able to produce the well-known condition of hysteric blindness, while
                faith and determination are able to cure and entirely remove this troublesome
                ailment. Fear and its allied states are sometimes able to lead up to that point
                where delusions are developed. The sufferer sees things which have no real
                existence. He imagines strange people are dogging his steps, imaginary enemies
                constantly on his trail, and even thinks people on the street are making faces at
                him.
            

            
              THE CONCLUSION OF THE WHOLE MATTER

              We have now carefully traced the influence of faith and fear upon the heart, the
                blood vessels, circulation, respiration,  secretions,
                digestion, muscles, skin, nervous system, brain, and the, special senses. The entire
                matter can be briefly summarized as follows :
              
                
                  All faith tendencies are toward mental happiness and physical health.
                    All people, good or bad, get the physical rewards of faith, regardless of
                    whether the objects of their faith and belief are true or false. Faith reacts
                    favorably upon the body independent of the trueness of the object or the
                    correctness of the thing believed. Faith is the natural, normal, and healthy
                    state of mind for man. Faith is the state of mind that ever tends to make a man
                    better, stronger, happier, and healthier.
                

                
                  Fear and all its tendencies are toward mental despair and physical
                    disease. All people, good or bad, reap the physical rewards of fear even though
                    its basis may be entirely false. There is a reaction of despair and disease
                    following all fear, doubt, and worry. The thing feared may be a hobgoblin or a
                    phantom, but the effects of fear upon the body are, nevertheless, unfailingly
                    deteriorating and disease-producing. Fear and worry are incompatible with mental
                    peace and physical health. Deliverance from the thraldom of fear is essential to
                    the mental, moral, and physical emancipation of the human race.
                
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER V CHRONIC FEAR OR COMMON WORRY

            IN EVERY age, the human race has suffered tremendously from the
              disastrous consequences of chronic fear or common worry, but it has fallen to the lot
              of our present-day civilization, with its intensity and complexity, to suffer in an
              unusual degree from the direful consequences of mental strain, social anxiety, and
              commencial stress.

            
              WHAT IS WORRY?

              It is exceedingly difficult to frame an acceptable definition for
                worry. A patient once described her mental state to me by saying that her "mind just
                took tight hold of an idea, and simply would not let go." It would seem that worry
                might truthfully be called a "spasm of the attention," a sort of continued fit of
                mental concentration. Worry is a diseased self-consciousness-- an undue and
                exaggerated solicitude on any subject. Concentration of the mental energies is
                highly essential to the performance of first-class brain work, and so it would seem
                that the danger of worry is ever associated with a high degree of mental
                concentration.

              It is very necessary that the mind should take fast hold upon an idea or a group of
                ideas in order to perform efficient mental work; on the other hand, if this
                intellectual concentration is too long continued; if the mind fails to release its
                grasp; if the psychic focus becomes continuous, then we have reached the borderland
                of anxiety, the realms of fear-- actual worry. Worry is a simple functional disorder
                of the mind-- a chronic process of "making mountains out of mole hills."
            

            
              FORETHOUGHT VERSUS FEARTHOUGHT

              And so we find that worry turns out to be a sort of a "one-sided mental action."
                Worry may be defined as "fearthought"  in
                contradistinction to "forethought." Forethought is highly
                necessary to the smooth running of our daily affairs, while fearthought is wholly unnecessary and even highly injurious. Worry is
                nothing more or less than "chronic fear." It is a well known fact that any single
                fear or group of fears, when long entertained in the mind, tend to crystallize
                themselves into definite worry, which immediately begins its corroding process of
                incessantly harassing the mind, torturing the soul, while it so effectively
                dissipates the mental energies and weakens the nervous forces. Worry is nothing more
                nor less than a sort of mental indigestion-- psychic dyspepsia.

              Forethought is a wise general of the intellectual forces, making an intelligent
                comparison between the experiences of the past and the present while
                discriminatingly planning for the future. Forethought is never unmindful of our
                present difficulties, neither is it blind to those which may be encountered in the
                future. Fearthought is nothing more or less than a process of borrowing trouble from
                the future for the purpose of augmenting our present sorrows. Edward Everett Hale
                once said: "Some people have three kinds of trouble-- all they ever had, all they
                now have, and all they ever expect to have." Worry, while ever posing as solicitous
                for our welfare, is a false friend, a dangerous traitor to the natural laws
                governing the realm of mind and morals.
            

            
              THE PSYCHOLOGY OF WORRY

              Man is truly the only animal that makes himself ridiculous by worry. The biologists
                teach us that intelligence (the liability to worry) exists only in those animals
                high enough up in the biological scale to possess associative memories. Man
                possesses a high degree of memory association. As Shakespeare has said, man is made
                "with such a large discourse, looking before and after." Numerous experiments made
                upon lower animals serve to prove that much of their apparently intelligent action
                is purely instinctive-- hereditary. They do not reason intelligently. The lower
                forms of life seem utterly unable to profit by experience-- they have little or no
                associative memory, and, of course, they are not addicted to the human vice of
                worry. In ascending  the scale of animal life,
                interesting problems are encountered when we reach the ant tribes; and it seems
                highly probable that wasps do actually possess certain powers of associative
                memory.

              Man, in short, suffers quite differently from the animals and he suffers more than
                they. He does not content himself, so to speak, with brute suffering which is
                adequate for the physical disorders; he increases them by imagination, aggravates
                them by fear, keeps them up by his pessimistic reflections.

              And so the higher we ascend in the scale of animal life, the greater the tendency
                to worry-- to look with fear and misgiving upon that which the future holds in
                store, or to be unduly apprehensive concerning the difficulties and problems of the
                present. Worry is simply some sort of abnormally insistent thought-- some idea you
                can't get away from-- a notion that grips you with a power you are unable to break.
                It should be remembered that while our imaginary worries are unreal, nevertheless, a
                worried imagination is one of the most real things in the world.
            

            
              THE GENERAL CAUSES OF WORRY

              The uncertainties and vicissitudes of life upon our planet are such as to render
                more or less worry inevitable. A certain degree of mild worry, a certain amount of
                anxiety, it would seem, is ever attached to the living state. Life is the one great
                source of worry. Death alone affords perfect and permanent relief from from the
                liability of fear and the tendency to worry.

              The fact that man is the only animal that worries is but a demonstration of the
                superiority of the human mind over that of the lower animals. Animals are not given
                to looking back-ward, and, as a rule, they do not look very far into the future; on
                the other hand, the mind of man sweeps back over past ages, and, from the page of
                history, as well as from the perplexing incidents of the present, forms those
                conclusions which cause him to look with fear and trembling into the future.

              The causes of human worry are indeed varied, but in the last analysis they are
                usually found to consist in some form of nerve irritation, mental anxiety, or moral
                fear. It not infrequently develops that numerous habits of life as well as certain
                physical practices are contributory to the development of the worry habit.  The use of alcohol, and many other forms of both psychic
                and physical transgression, are often discovered to be the hand maidens of worry and
                ancestors of sorrow.

              Lack of self-control is another great cause of worry. A strong will would cure
                nine-tenths of this unnecessary and hurtful grief. Even the proverbial "wet hen"
                could undoubtedly overcome her anger if she would but become reconciled to the
                presence of a little moisture or else become a trifle indifferent to the matter of
                always keeping dry. We stand other people's troubles very well, and, by vigorously
                making up our minds, we ought to be able to learn how to stand our own without
                making so much fuss about it.
            

            
              THE EVER PRESENT HAPPINESS HUNGER

              Whatever the immediate cause of worry, a solicitude for our own general welfare,
                material prosperity, and mental happiness, or that of our loved ones, must be
                recognized as the real cause of all our worries. We worry lest we may lose or fail
                to obtain those material blessings which will make us and our friends happy.

              The desire for happiness, then, is found to be the real, fundamental cause of
                worry; but it should ever be borne in mind that under no circumstances can worry
                ever contribute to our happiness; on the other hand, it should be remembered that
                worry and anxiety never fail directly to detract from the enjoyment of life-- to
                destroy our mental peace, and not infrequently they store up for the future that
                which will everlastingly destroy the very happiness for the love of which we are
                wont to worry.

              Concerning happiness hunger-- human desire-- Dubois says: 
                  But however complicated music may be, it nevertheless reduces itself to the
                    combination of seven notes and their octaves. For the sentiments, in spite of
                    their number and complexity, the simplification is still easier. There are not
                    seven sentiments, the combination of which would constitute the sentimental
                    life; there are two only-- desire and fear. The former urges
                    man forward and incites him to seek that which he desires; the latter holds him
                    back and makes him recoil from that which he fears. In short, these are
                    sentiments only of pleasure and of displeasure. I go further, and say that man has  never had but a single motive of action-- desire,
                    whether it be a positive desire that something happen, or a negative desire that
                    something do not happen. Examine from this point of view all your actions and
                    those of your fellow men and you will always find this single spring setting in
                    motion all your energies-- desire.

              Many good people entertain the false notion that possession of material riches can
                bestow happiness upon the soul. They are fully possessed of the idea that riches are
                essential to the joy of living. Accordingly, they toil in anxiety and endure
                hardships and experience much mental torture, in their efforts to provide themselves
                with these supposed essentials to life and happiness. But all this is a mistake.
                True happiness is rather derived from the blessings of sound, physical health,
                mental peace, and spiritual satisfaction.
            

            
              TEMPERAMENTAL PECULIARITIES

              Some good people constantly worry because they are "criticised" either justly or
                unjustly. Some folks are veritable human sensitive plants: they are always being
                "neglected" or "slighted," even by their very best friends. Other good people are
                depressed and dejected because they are sure that their great worth is not fully
                appreciated by their associates or employers. Still others fret and fume and worry
                because they feel it is their duty to resent some supposed or real injury or
                injustice which has been done to them.

              This temperamental sort of worry frequently gives rise to violent outbursts of
                temper and extraordinary manifestations of anger, all of which are exceedingly
                injurious to the health of the nervous, digestive, and circulatory systems; while
                they are highly destructive to every form of mental happiness and spiritual
                peace.

              Other people worry because they are inordinately timid-- bashful or backward. Many
                earnest souls constantly fear imaginary difficulties, fear they will make some awful
                blunder, or that they will utterly fail to "make good" with the task they have in
                hand. Some persons always feel that after they have done their best they will still
                be unable to meet the demands  which their position
                makes upon them. This abnormal timidity necessarily results in producing an
                unnatural state of discouragement, brooding, and even despondency.

              Still others worry over their great responsibilities; and, as a rule, these
                over-anxious individuals are found to be altogether too much concerned about certain
                minute details and other trifling matters for which they are not at all personally
                responsible, and over which they exercise little or no control. And yet they
                constantly fret and worry over these things to the point where they lose both
                appetite and sleep.
            

            
              USELESS WEATHER WORRY

              Every time you meet some folks you find that they are worrying over the weather;
                they are not satisfied with what nature provides; the sun shines too much, or else
                it rains too much. They are something like the grumbling farmer whose fault-finding
                and complaining were proverbial for miles around. In the midst of one ideal summer
                (so far as weather conditions and crops were concerned) a delegation of neighbors
                called on him one afternoon and expressed the thought that he must for once be
                satisfied with the fine weather and the excellent crops. The old farmer knitted his
                brow, scratched his head for a moment and then replied: "Yes, neighbors, the
                  crops are good and the weather is fine, but I want to tell you that such crops are
                  mighty hard on the land."

              Some men and women are literally human barometers. As the result of their rheumatic
                tendencies coupled with constant thought of the weather, they are able to detect a
                storm long before the weather bureau is aware that it has appeared on the far
                distant horizon. Such unfortunates are able to keep themselves on the border of
                nervous prostration by their constant worry over the weather and from fear that all
                their plans will be upset by rain, storm, or drouth.

              Another class of mental sufferers might be classified as "science worriers." They
                are more or less bothered over the great problems of the universe. Some are afraid
                the sun will sometime burn out, and that our old world will gradually freeze up.
                Others live in constant fear lest our planet will collide with  some stray comet. Several frightened people committed suicide during the
                recent visit of Halley's comet to the neighborhood of our world. Still others are
                possessed with the constant fear of being struck by lightning; they are always
                terrorstricken by loud thunder.
            

            
              THE MAGNIFICATION OF TRIFLES

              It is something terrible the way intelligent human beings will make a mountain out
                of a molehill, how they persist in magnifying trifles beyond all measure and reason.
                A discouraged and downcast fellow, struggling with obstacles and fighting with
                failures, will often deliberately attribute all his misfortune and difficulties to
                some trifling mistake in his youth, or to some insignificant blunder or minor
                transgression of later life.

              There recently came to our clinic a young man whose life was perfect failure; he
                had contemplated suicide, but a friend urged him to come and see us. This patient
                had made a certain mistake in his youth, which he later greatly magnified and so led
                himself to believe that he could not succeed in life, that he was doomed to certain
                failure. For seven years he had lived in this slough of despond, and now he
                seriously thought of taking his life. He had been looking through the spy glass of
                life at the wrong end, and it was only necessary to reverse his telescope, as it
                were, to give him an entirely new viewpoint of life. After an hour's talk he was
                ready to go to work and he has continued to make rapid progress and satisfactory
                improvement.

              We are all subject to the little ills of life. Other people are not free from these
                vexing trifles; why should we expect to be? In times of trouble and harassment, let
                us swell out our chests, breathe deeply, and face these trifling difficulties like
                men. Let obstacles breed the spirit of conquest, the determination to conquer,
                instead of causing us to wilt and surrender.
            

            
              THE CHRONIC "KICKING" HABIT

              Another great cause of worry and kindred mental dissatisfaction is to be found in
                the disposition of some grouchy dyspeptics to find fault with everything and
                everybody. They have literally acquired the "kicking" habit. Such unfortunate
                creatures  seem utterly unable to see good in anybody
                or to be satisfied with anything. They manifest constant resistance to their
                environment.

              It should be remembered that worry grows by what it feeds on. When we nurse and
                nourish this spirit of dissatisfaction, it acts and reacts upon ourselves until the
                very soul is filled with discontent, and the mind is wholly permeated with chronic
                complaining. However small and trifling the matter over which we begin to worry,
                this insignificant cause of our mental dissatisfaction will be found entirely
                sufficient to feed and nourish the spirit of uneasiness to the point where it
                completely gains possession of the mind, threatens to wreck our career, and
                constantly harasses the soul to the point where life is almost unbearable. Worry
                travels and operates in a sort of "vicious circle"-- and all its terrible results
                unfailingly operate as the generators of new forms of fretting new causes for
                worry.

              But after all that can be said of the causes of worry, we cannot overlook the fact
                that some people have come to the place where they enjoy poor health. They would not
                be happy if they could not complain of backache, headache, stomach-ache, or
                something of the kind; their complaints have become chronic; they enjoy enlisting
                the sympathy of their fellows, having great and evident delight in describing their
                sufferings and explaining their miseries; they are constantly consulting the almanac
                and patent medicine advertisements to find some new cause for physical complaint,
                and they usually find what they are looking for.

              An habitual worrier-- an aged woman-- said to her physician, "My head feels dull
                like, and I've kinder lost the power to worry over things." A great many people
                would be much troubled were they to lose the power to worry over things. They think
                it their duty to worry. They would not feel that they were conscientious or faithful
                if they were not always anxious over what they were doing. They would not think they
                were showing the proper interest.
            

            
              THE HANDICAPS OF WORRY

              In cataloging the handicaps of worry, Marden says: 
                
                  We Americans pity ignorant savages who live in terror of their cruel Gods,
                    their demons which keep them in abject slavery, but we ourselves are the slaves
                    of a demon which blasts our hopes, blights our happiness, casts its hideous
                    shadow across all our pleasures, destroys our sleep, mars our health, and keeps
                    us in misery most of our lives.
                  The monster dogs us from the cradle to the grave. There is no occasion so
                    sacred but it is there. Unbidden it comes to the wedding and the funeral alike.
                    It is at every reception, every banquet, it occupies a seat at every table.
                  No human intellect can estimate the unutterable havoc and ruin wrought by
                    worry.i It has forced genius to do the work of mediocrity; it has caused more
                    failures, more broken hearts, more blasted hopes than any other one cause since
                    the dawn of the world. What have not men done under the pressure of worry! They
                    have plunged into all sorts of vice, have become drunkards, drug fiends; have
                    sold their very souls in their efforts to escape this monster.
                  Think of the homes which it has broken up; the ambitions it has Mined; the
                    hopes and prospects it has blighted ! Think of the suicide Victims of this
                    demon!
                  Many a strong man is tied down, like Gulliver, by Lilliputians-- bound hand and
                    foot by the little worries and vexations he has never learned to conquer.
                  We borrow trouble; endure all our lives the woe of crossing and recrossing
                    bridges weeks and years before we come to them; anticipate our drudgery and
                    consequently suffer from the apprehension of terrible things that never
                    happen.
                  I know women who never open a telegram without trembling, for they feel sure it
                    will announce the death of a friend or some terrible disaster. If their children
                    have gone for a sail or a picnic, they are never easy a moment during their
                    absence; they work themselves into a fever of anxiety for fear that something
                    will happen to them.
                  Many a mother fritters away more energy and useless frets and fears for her
                    children, a nervous strain over this or that, than she uses for her daily
                    routine of domestic work. She wonders why she is so exhausted at the close of
                    the day, and never dreams that she has thrown away the greater part of her
                    force. Look at the women who are shriveled and shrunken and aged at thirty, not
                    because of the hard work they have done, or the real troubles they have had, but
                    because of habitual fretting, which has helped nobody, but has brought discord
                    and unhappiness to their homes.
                  Worry not only saps vitality and wastes energy, but it also  seriously affects the quality of one's work. It cuts
                    down ability. A man cannot get the same quality of efficiency into his work when
                    his mind is troubled., The mental faculties must have perfect freedom before
                    they will give out their best.
                  It is the little pin-pricks, the petty annoyances of our every day life, that
                    mar our comfort and happiness and rob us of more strength than the great
                    troubles which we nerve ourselves to meet. It is the perpetual scolding and
                    fault-finding of an irritable man or woman which ruins the entire peace and
                    happiness of many a home.
                
              
            

            
              THE WASTE OF WORRY

              Worry is always a waste, always a disease. Physically, it is traceable in drawn
                features, short breathing, tense bearing, irregular quick movements. Mentally, it is
                distinguishable as a vicious circle of the intellect and the emotions, thought and
                feeling futilely rotating about some single object set out of focus. Sometimes a
                trifling difficulty or risk swells to a mountain, some little business loss, some
                slight personal affront or passing ailment is bloated out by apprehension until it
                occupies the mind, becomes a fixed idea, even an obsession.

              When there is no irritant at hand, worry finds or invents its object, setting the
                imagination to fabricate troubles and grievances out of any casual material of life.
                Such anxiety or apprehension as relates to matters of real weight for which we have
                true responsibility cannot be regarded as worry; this sort of emotion rightly
                measured and directed, is a prophylactic evolved for the preservation of the
                individual and the race. Worry is essentially irrational, and it is literally true
                that nothing kills so sure as care. 'e must come to recognize that even self-pity is
                only a refined form of sensitiveness or selfishness.

              Outside of the contagious and infectious diseases and certain organic
                degenerations, it is highly probable that at least nine-tenths of all human
                suffering originates in the mind. These trifling causes grow in the mind and expand
                in the physical realms until their victims are suffering from well-defined
                neurasthenia, dyspepsia, loss of weight, anaemia, sluggish circulation, high
                blood-pressure, hypochondria, headache, arteriosclerosis, pale skins, constipation,
                apoplexy, heart failure, paralysis, hysteria, and premature old age.

              

              The results of chronic worry are equally destructive on character development. It
                paralyzes the creative powers of the intellect. It generates a pessimistic outlook
                on the battlefield of life, it smokes our social field glass, and blurs over views
                of relationship to our fellows. From both the psychic and physical standpoints worry
                constitutes a vital leakage-- an insidious seeping of one's vital energies--
                demonstrating in the end that "fretting" is a far worse foe to human health and
                happiness than "fatigue."
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER
              
                 Worry may be defined as "chronic fear," "spasm of the attention," or
                  over-concentration. Worry is fear-thought in contradistinction to forethought. It
                  is a process of borrowing trouble from the future to augment our present
                  sorrows.

                 The tendency to worry exists only in those animals high enough up in
                  the biologic scale to possess associative memories. Man possesses a high degree of
                  memory association, and, therefore, of all animals, makes himself most ridiculous
                  by worry.

                 Man is not content to suffer as a mere brute, physically, but to this
                  material distress he adds imaginary suffering.

                 The one great cause of worry is the universal desire for happiness,
                  and the quest for those things and conditions which are generally supposed to
                  confer happiness on their possessor.

                 Worry results from some form of nervous irritation-- coupled with
                  anxiety, fear, and a marked lack of self-control.

                 Worry springs from one or the other of those all embracing human
                  sentiments-- desire and fear.

                 Many good people constantly worry because of their temperamental
                  peculiarities. They feel that they are always being "neglected," "slighted," or
                  "criticised." Others are inordinately timid, backward, and bashful.

                 Some people are literally human barometers. They constantly worry over
                  the weather-- also sun spots, comets, etc.

                 "Making mountains out of mole hills" has come to be the regular
                  business of some folks. They magnify the smallest trifles beyond all measure and
                  reason.

                 Many lives are almost completely wrecked by inordinate worry over
                  some youthful blunder, some early indiscretion. They need to reverse the spy glass
                  of life.

                 Some people have acquired the chronic "kicking habit." They see no
                  good in anybody and are dissatisfied with everything that happens. They are in a
                  state of constant environmental resistance.

                

                 Certain chronic worriers come to that sorry pass where they actually
                  enjoy poor health, taking evident delight in reciting their complaints and
                  sufferings.

                 Worry is a legacy of fear handed down from the savages of old, and
                  yet modern civilization permits this barbaric mental attitude to play havoc with
                  and almost overturn the peace and happiness of modern society.

                 Many a nervous woman expends more energy in foolish worry over the
                  minor trifles of the daily life than she devotes to the solution of the real and
                  major problems of family and social life.

                 Worry is a tremendous social, moral, physical, and economic waste. It
                  is literally true that nothing kills so sure as care.

                 Worry is responsible for nine-tenths of human suffering and disease--
                  if we exempt those afflictions caused by microbes and the natural degenerations
                  accompanying old age.

                 Chronic worry exacts a physical toll embracing disturbances of
                  circulation, digestion, and the nerves; including headache, high blood-pressure,
                  constipation, apoplexy, neurasthenia, hysteria, and hypochondria.

                 Self-pity is a refined form of sensitiveness or selfishness.
              
            
          

          

            

            CHAPTER VI COMMON CAUSES OF WORRY AND NERVOUSNESS

            IT IS now in order to consider some of the common causes of chronic
              worry and nervousness, with a view to discovering how to suppress the operation of
              these same causes-- and thus to prevent this worry and nervousness. The ideal method
              of treatment for these psychic and neurological disorders is to discover how
              effectively to "nip the trouble in the bud."

            On this score certain writers, both lay and medical, attempt to dispose categorically
              of what is, in reality, a complex problem, by holding the general strenuousness of
              modern American life alone to blame for all cases of disordered nerves. Properly
              defined, the strenuous life is merely one of strong effort and exertion. And strong
              effort, rightly controlled and directed, never occasions undue wear and tear upon the
              nervous system.

            As a matter of fact, cases of nervous breakdown in which neither acquired nor
              hereditary predisposition is discoverable are very rare indeed. So that, for the most
              part, causes which are held to be direct-- notably exhausting illness of all kinds,
              surgical operations upon the appendix or upon the reproductive organs, and severe and
              protracted childbirth-- do little more than to precipitate the disaster.

            

              EARLY NEUROTIC INFLUENCES

              Not infrequently, the foundation for a life-long career of nervousness is laid in
                early childhood by the thoughtless and ignorant methods of child culture, which so
                largely prevail. Regarding this matter, Dubois has written: 
                  In many cases the seeds of nervous breakdown are sown in very early life.
                    Through the ignorance of nursemaids, parents or guardians, vivid impressions of
                    a terrifying or otherwise obnoxious nature are constantly made upon the child
                    mind, which sadly interfere with  the firm
                    upbuilding of character so essential to the stability and functional harmony of
                    the nervous system.
                  But many parents, failing to take the cue from Nature, insist on thwarting her
                    beneficent efforts by requiring their reluctant offspring to not only devote
                    more time to their studies than is necessary; but also to spend several nerve
                    racking hours daily in practice upon some musical instrument.
                  Some very young children are still given such rank nerve poisons as tea,
                    coffee, and alcohol, by ignorant parents of the poorer classes, but popular
                    medical instruction has done much to lessen this evil.
                  From the age of puberty up to the time a youth or maiden reaches maturity,
                    overstudy is the predisposing, as well as the direct, cause of disordered nerves
                    in a certain number of cases. But it is a cause of minor importance in every way
                    as compared with certain experiences that may be undergone at the time when the
                    sexual instinct begins to intrude itself forcibly upon consciousness.
                  Through the ignorance, indifference or mawkish sentimentality of parents, many
                    a youth comes into the possession of procreative powers, the physical, mental
                    and moral significance of which he understands nothing. If he is of vigorous
                    bodily habit and, at the same time, clean-minded, he may for a long time resist
                    Nature's promptings. But Nature is imperious, while instinctive morality is at
                    most only rudimentary and puts but a feeble check upon an organic longing. Under
                    such conditions the habit of self-pollution is easily established. Once
                    established, it may be continued for years; and indeed, without perceptible
                    detriment to mind or body. In the generality of cases, however, there comes,
                    sooner or later, a rude awakening. Through the talk of ignorant lay
                    acquaintances, or far worse still, through the unspeakable pernicious literature
                    which is scattered broadcast by the most ruthless of all human vultures, the
                    "Lost Manhood" quacks, the victim of the habit becomes obsessed with the idea
                    that he has ruined himself mentally and physically. Even in cases where no such
                    habit is formed, and the youth experiences nothing worse than nocturnal
                    pollutions of varying frequency, it is instilled into his mind by these same
                    fiends that this perfectly natural phenomenon leads inevitably, to equally
                    terrible results. In consequence of this disingenuous enlightenment real evils,
                    such as worry, anxiety, introspection and self-analysis, spring rapidly into
                    existence and make easy the descent into the hell of disordered nerves.
                

              In the case of a girl, the situation is different. If she is not properly prepared
                for its advent, the first menstrual epoch may bring 
                with it an emotional crisis which may recur with each successive epoch.

              Life between the ages of puberty and maturity is fraught with still further menaces
                to nervous stability, and among the more common are the tea, coffee, tobacco and
                alcohol habits, in all of which the balance between nervous waste and repair is
                constantly disturbed. This balance is likewise disturbed by either work or
                pleasure-seeking, whenever the one or the other constantly interferes with sound
                nightly sleep of nine or ten solid hours.

              For the girl who is popular there is the eternal round of dances, theaters and
                house parties and other forms of social activity, which make such severe demands
                upon her physically and emotionally that, by the time she "comes out," her fund of
                nerve force is often at a low ebb.
            

            
              THE WORRY CIRCLE

              When the attention is directly concentrated upon any part of the body, there is a
                definite tendency to magnify the sensations arising in that part. Special, peculiar,
                or unusual physical sensations always have a tendency to engender more or less fear;
                and it is a well known and generally recognized fact of psychology, that fear
                unfailingly both increases and focalizes the attention.

              Sensation, fear, and attention constitute the elements which enter into the
                formation of that wicked and destructive mischief-maker the "vicious worry circle."
                It will be recalled that one of the definitions of worry was, "a spasm of the
                attention." This health-destroying and mind-ruining "circle of worry" starts with
                some extraordinary conscious impression, upon which the attention is forthwith
                focussed. The vividness of the impression is thereby greatly increased and fear is
                aroused, perhaps worry is born. Then all this fear and worry reacts by increasing
                and focalizing the attention anew upon those impressions which were the original
                source and cause of all this mischief. In this manner, concentration of the thoughts
                upon any of the internal organs of the body or upon any local pain, is usually found
                to make matters decidedly worse or indefinitely to perpetuate the ailment.

              It would thus appear that worry is seldom likely to cure itself  by being allowed to run its natural course. It soon
                wears for itself definite grooves,in the brain and nervous system, and ever tends to
                perpetuate itself after the manner of this "vicious circle," and in almost every
                case slowly but surely increases its intensity, thereby becoming more and more
                destructive to mental peace and physical health. We would not dispute the fact that
                the meek and humble soul-eyed, hollow-cheeked woman may be on the certain road to
                heaven, but we are quite certain that she must have a "stop over ticket for some
                sanitarium" or hospital where she will have to be long treated for the mental and
                material results of her constant worry, as well as for the indigestion, dyspepsia
                and nervous prostration, that are so surely produced by this unnatural, unhealthful
                and downcast mental state. And so, the "vicious worry circle" is found to consist of
                the following factors-- attention magnifies sensation; sensation produces fear and
                worry; and the worry still further increases, and intensifies, and focalizes the
                attention.
            

            
              EXCESSIVE SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS

              Among the everyday mental causes for fear and worry should be mentioned the
                exaggerated self-consciousness found especially in the case of certain young people.
                Stage-fright is an acute exhibition of this form of mental uneasiness and physical
                discomfort. Many sensitive persons find it almost impossible to get away from these
                insistent feelings of self-consciousness. Their minds are peculiarly concentrated on
                the thought that other people are thinking about them, and all this certainly is a
                demonstration of the fact that our thoughts are a real part of ourselves.

              We well remember hearing some one say "an imaginary worry may be unreal, but a
                worried imagination is the realest thing in the world." The basis of our worry may
                be entirely false and unreal, but the final results of the worry upon the mind,
                soul, and health are in every sense real and highly injurious.
            

            
              MENTAL WORK AND REST

              We must learn to strike an intelligent balance between the dangers which threaten
                us on the one hand from too much work  and the friction
                attendant thereon; and, on the other hand, from too much rest and the rust of
                character which is sure to follow. We do not want either to "worry out" or "rust
                out," but to possess that wisdom which will enable us to lead the normal, rational
                life which promises deliverance from the threatened dangers of both these
                unnecessary extremes. We must be able to strike a practical working balance between
                friction and rust.

              Both mental idleness and physical inactivity predispose to worry. Those who would
                cease from worry must constantly guard against intellectual inactivity; for, if it
                is true that Satan finds mischief for idle hands, it is even more true that he is
                sure to find worry for the idle minds; and worry obscures our outlook on life, both
                for this world and the next; it throttles the higher powers of the mind, it beclouds
                our view of life and distorts our appreciation of the duties thereof. Worry is the
                smoke on the field-glass of life, and quite effectively it blurs our outlook and
                paralyzes all the creative faculties of the intellect.

              Mental work never kills. Mental work plus worry is highly destructive to strength
                of brain and health of the body; while heavy and taxing mental work coupled with
                unusual worry and its resultant insomnia, presents conditions which will more
                quickly destroy the physical health and break down the mind than any other possible
                combination of mental vices and physical sins.

              in reality, the nervous system is seldom thus depleted of its forces if due heed is
                given to even the most elementary laws of hygiene, and the reaction of daily toil
                upon the individual's consciousness is a pleasant one. Depletion follows only where
                such common physical needs as nourishing food, pure air, sun-shine and sleep are
                practically neglected, and the energies of mind and body are incessantly bent upon
                some daily task whose chief emotional reaction is worry.

              In the last analysis, the most important factor in the direct causation of nervous
                exhaustion is the emotional life of the individual. Where worry is the dominant
                note, breakdown is practically inevitable.
            

            

            
              THE "SPIRIT OF INFIRMITY"

              
                And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years,
                  and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw
                  her, He called her to Him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine
                  infirmity. And He laid His hands on her; and immediately she was made straight,
                  and glorified God. (Luke XIII:II-13.)
              

              Here was an unfortunate sufferer who had been held in bondage by an imaginary
                "spirit of infirmity" for almost a score of years. The Master broke light into her
                darkened mind by announcing that she was free from her infirmity. She had never been
                really bound. She was bowed together as a result of her long worry and sorrow. So
                long had she assumed this physical attitude that her body had become permanently
                deformed-- another illustration of a serious physical disorder resulting from purely
                mental causes.

              Thousands of suffering souls are held today by the chains of imaginary bondage.
                They have no real physical disease. Their ailment is in reality only a "spiritual
                infirmity." They might go free at any time, but they do not know it; they will not
                believe it. These prisoners of despair are held securely in their prison house of
                doubt by the force of fear and habit. They are very much like the elephant in
                Central Park, New York City, which had stood in one spot for many years, shackled
                with heavy chains. He had never left his tracks except when he had been unfastened
                and led away by his keepers. One day it occurred to them to remove the fetters from
                his legs and see if he would leave his place. After the beast was free from his
                shackles he steadfastly refused to move, even after he was allowed to become
                exceedingly hungry, and when food was placed within a few inches of his reach, he
                stood in his tracks swaying from side to side and trumpeting loudly, but not a step
                did the huge beast take toward the food.

              The elephant was free, but he did not know it; therefore he stood there in his old
                place just as securely bound by the chains of his own mind as if the steel bands
                were about him as of old. And so it is with humanity; altogether too many of us are
                like unto the elephant, we are absolutely free today, but not realizing  or not believing the glorious fact-- not having faith
                and courage enough to step out into our mental freedom and begin to enjoy our
                spiritual liberty-- like the elephant, we stand in the place of habit-bondage and
                bitterly mourn our terrible fate. We are not surprised when an elephant behaves this
                way, but it ought to be a cause for great astonishment that intelligent men and
                women, sons and daughters of God, will allow themselves to be held down by
                fictitious bondage and bound down by a mere "spirit of infirmity."
            

            
              FICTITIOUS WORRIES

              We recently saw a picture which greatly impressed us concerning the uselessness of
                worry. It was a picture of an old man, bent in form, sad of expression, suggestive
                of a life filled with perplexities and anxiety; and underneath the picture was this
                statement; "I am an old man and have had many, many troubles-- most of which
                  never happened."

              A recent writer in discussing the question of worry and the weakened condition of
                the mind which permits the "worry circle" to go on forever revolving, getting worse
                and worse puts it very aptly as follows: "You say you cannot; your friends say you
                will not; the truth is, you cannot will." There is need on the part of most persons
                of a determined effort to strengthen the will, to control the mind. The methods for
                the accomplishment of this will be discussed in another chapter and in connection
                with the treatment of worry.

              Certain nervous diseases are caused by worry. Most important among these is the
                condition known as neurasthenia, commonly called "nervous prostration." Patients
                suffering from this condition are usually spoken of as "all run down." The truth is
                that they are patients who have been "all wound up," and as a result of high
                tension, coupled with mental anxiety, they have broken down-- collapsed.

              Hypochondria is another disease which owes its origin and perpetuation largely to
                worry. Hypochondria is simply a condition which one worries about having other
                diseases. Whenever the most intelligent of men begin to examine their mental ir
                physical life, they usually discover themselves to be sick.  Some one has truthfuly said; "we are all afflicted with a disease called
                life." This is a form of hypochondria which it is entirely possible to cure by
                mental means. There is another kind of hypochondria which usually requires the
                cooperation of the physician for its permanent removal. A third form of nervous
                complaint largely due to worry and anxiety is hysteria; and hysteria, it should be
                remembered is the impersonator of almost every known disease.
            

            
              MORAL CAUSES OF WORRY

              The moral habits and spiritual state of the individual not infrequently contribute
                much toward the production of worry. Sin is not only a cause of physical sickness,
                but it also lies at the bottom of many a mental malady. Immorality, dishonesty, and
                intemperance, all operate to destroy the peace of mind, while they give rise to that
                prick of conscience which is altogether incompatible with a tranquil mental
                state.

              Religion may be either a cause of worry, or it may play the role of a cure. We
                speak of "religion" in the sense of some particular form of theological belief.

              Worry is frequently generated by false ideas and arbitrary views of the Supreme
                Being. Doctrinal and interpretative, errors of religious beliefs are responsible for
                much of the downcast and despondent experience of thousands who do not profess to be
                followers of the Christ. Many earnest and honest souls have such constant wrestlings
                with the doubt of the forgiveness of their sins, or they live in such incessant fear
                of death and eternal damnation, that the mind is held in constant bondage to these
                insistent and oppressive thoughts, and all this must inevitably result in the
                production of a chronic state of worry and nervousness.
            

            
              RELIGIOUS FANATICISM

              Religious devotion and faith, while they may prove the quick and certain cure for
                some forms of worry, may also be perverted-- carried to such fanatical extremes as
                to produce serious mental worry and even spiritual despondency. Every now and then,
                we hear of some one "going crazy over religion."  Such
                a one usually belongs to that class of morbidly conscientious and overscrupulous
                people who possess a nervous system already greatly weakened; or perhaps they have a
                strain of insanity in their family, and probably some of their ancestors were
                alcoholic or syphilitic. The combination of such physical soil, taken together with
                the unusual mental strain or excitement, connected with extraordinary religious
                enthusiasm, is frequently able suddenly to overturn the mind or else to produce such
                an unnatural condition of anxiety and worry as gradually to undermine the mental
                vigor and result in producing some form of insanity. Religious fanaticism is simply
                one-sided moral reasoning, simply the extreme over-emphasis of one aspect of the
                religious or moral life. It sometimes results from an apparent exhaustion of the
                mental energies and over-work of the spiritual faculties.

              Still other sincere persons are suffering from the results of their own misguided
                zeal. They voluntarily possess themselves of such extraordinary burdens for the
                salvation of the souls of their fellow men, that they, in a measure actually assume
                the worry and responsibility of the world's Saviour; and, as a result, their brains
                are overburdened, and their souls are crushed beneath the weight of this constant
                worry and anxiety for the welfare of their fellows. Religious hope of the right
                sort, when sincerely cherished, undoubtedly exercises a positive power toward the
                prevention of worry. It is an important observation which the author is not alone in
                making, that as the so-called old fashioned religion declines, worry increases. As
                men and women depart from the simple faith and trust in the fundamental principals
                of the Christian religion, there is a growing tendency to worry. We sincerely
                believe that the religion of the soul should be as a bright light shining in a dark
                place, our guiding star instead of being perverted into a source of worry, grief,
                and despondency.
            

            
              PHYSICAL CAUSES OF WORRY

              Many sensitive souls are caused more or less worry throughout life by the legacies
                handed down by father and mother in the shape of physical weaknesses and bodily
                deformities.  Still others, owing to a weakened nervous
                system and over-strain, have fallen into a condition of nervous irritability that
                renders them very liable to anxiety and worry upon the least provocation. Such
                persons-- in fact all of us-- are greatly predisposed to worry by sleeplessness.
                Sound sleep is a great preventive of the mental state that borders on worry and
                nervousness.

              The state of the physical health is not an infrequent occasion for worry. Many
                worry because of the lingering illness or unusual afflictions, while others grieve
                because of the sickness and suffering of their loved ones.

              There is little doubt that nine-tenths of all the ordinary noncontagious diseases
                of the body originate in the mind, and it is worry that produces the soil from which
                these infant disorders spring. The seeds of mental disease and physical affliction
                may fall upon us thick and fast, but if they fail to find the soil of worry and
                depression in which to develop and grow, we are not likely to be seriously affected
                by their presence. It requires not only a germ to produce disease, but also a
                favorable soil in which it may grow. Worry produces just that condition of mind and
                body most favorable to the growth and development of all the vicious diseases which
                prey upon the mind and destroy the body.
            

            
              WORRY DEPENDENT ON AGE

              Many of the worries which afflict the human mind are incident to some particular
                time of life they are more or less dependent on age. For example, we have certain
                worries belonging to the period of childhood, others to adolescence. Certain
                difficulties are more likely to harass the soul during the adult period of life,
                whereas other troubles are more likely to give birth to worry and anxiety during old
                age. The worries of childhood are just as real as those of later life. The little
                girl who is made to wear short dresses which come considerably above her knees, when
                she has long outgrown them; or the small boy who is compelled to wear clothes which
                he regards as suited only to infants-- both have their worries and it should be
                remembered that their childish grievances are to them very  real. They take these little troubles of childhood very seriously.
                Likewise their griefs and sorrows resulting from ridicule and teasing tend to induce
                unhealthy mental activity, and seriously to warp the nervous system in its early
                development.

              Another form of worry which may be properly classified among this group, is the
                fear and worry of old age. As the years pass over us, the arteries begin to harden,
                the memory gradually fails, the skin becomes visibly wrinkled, and leathery, and old
                age brings its peculiar worries to the majority of people. There is a tendency to
                undue anxiety on the part of the aged that is born both of the retrospective view of
                life and anticipation as to what the future holds in store. Especially is this true
                in the case of those who do not have sufficient means laid up properly and
                comfortably to care for them to a good old age.
            

            
              PERNICIOUS HEALTH FADS

              Some new fangled health fad may set the whole country worrying about dietetics and
                dyspepsia. Newspaper articles and health literature are able so to alarm the people
                as markedly to upset the nerves and digestion of thousands of susceptible persons.
                Some editorial novice, who cannot earn his living in a better way, sends out an
                article to the newspaper syndicate proclaiming that some scientist has discovered
                that strawberries are poisonous; and forthwith ten thousand people begin to have
                stomach trouble from eating strawberries, or begin seriously to worry over their
                liability to disagree with them. Some persons cannot read a book on health and
                hygiene without immediately acquiring a new disease. It is proverbial that medical
                students are prone to have, or at least to think they have, the numerous diseases
                which they study from time to time. It will be a miracle if some healthy, but
                self-conscious souls do not get hold of this book and-- taking some part too
                seriously-- straight away proceed to get nervous or begin to worry about
                themselves.

              The author would not have it understood that he in any way decries the good that
                has been and is being accomplished by the great hygienic awakening which is making
                its way over the  land; we believe that human beings
                should be capable of studying about themselves for the purpose of gaining needed
                instructions without allowing their minds to become morbid, faddish, and filled with
                worry concerning their physical health.

              Not only are numerous physical conditions responsible for worry, but it should be
                remembered that numerous physical disorders may directly result from chronic worry.
                Among the common physical ailments which may directly result from long continued
                worry may be mentioned, insomnia, loss of weight, anaemia, rise of blood-pressure,
                hardening of the arteries, premature old age, apoplexy, headaches, dyspepsia,
                constipation, pale skin, poor circulation, and predisposition to catching all
                contagious diseases including common colds.
            

            
              SOCIAL SOURCES OF WORRY

              Among the social causes of worry, family trouble, either real or false, probably
                comes first. Divorces, desertions, and social dissipations result in a vast amount
                of human worry, sorrow, and sickness. Oftentimes it is unnecessary to go beyond the
                domestic circle in search of the exciting causes of the emotional state which
                exhausts the nervous vitality. The grief which follows a break in the family through
                death or marriage, or the anxiety occasioned by the precarious health, the prolonged
                absence, or even the dissolute habits, of one of its members, is frequently enough
                to bring some other member low.

              Household problems are another cause of worry. The proper rearing of the boy, the
                successful training of the girl, the usual petty cares of the home, to which all
                women are subject, together with the modern servant problem-- all serve to create
                anxiety and worry, together with the useless and unnecessary toil connected with the
                family life. Many housewives are constantly worried over the proper performance of
                little things that would in no way affect the family happiness if they were left
                undone.

              Many a mother, when she wakes up in the morning, begins the day in a state of
                anxious and nervous agitation; she feels herself already crushed under the weight of
                all the burdens she will have to bear. The little household cares and domestic  trials which every mother experiences are not to her
                simple annoyances; they are actual catastrophes, and she suffers every one of these
                calamities a score of times before it comes. By noon her life is swarming with
                apprehensions, difficulties, and troubles, worry reigns supreme on the throne of her
                mind, and distraction has come to possess her soul. At the close of the day this
                unhappy mother has borne a hundred sorrows which were wholly imaginary, produced
                entirely by abnormal and uncontrolled emotion.

              Among social causes of worry are those of jealousy and distrust, the social rivalry
                and ambition found among the "smart set" of our metropolitan centers. Undue sympathy
                for friends may be set down as another cause of mental uneasiness.

              Social and family friction may cause worry to the point of producing such high
                blood-pressure as to lead its victims to the use of alcohol, in an effort to secure
                relief from mental and nervous tension. Intemperance may be set down as both a cause
                and a result of worry.
            

            
              INDUSTRIAL CAUSES OF WORRY

              Every product of modern inventive genius which tends to decease the physical work
                of the body is bound to increase the tendency toward worry. The less we use the
                body, the more likely we are to overuse (abuse) the mind.

              An inordinate worldly ambition may generate worry on the one hand, while there can
                be no denying the fact that poverty is a provoker of worry on the other hand.
                Financial difficulties and business reverses must be set down as among the
                industrial causes of an uneasy mind. Industrial disputes and labor difficulties, the
                constant friction between combinations of money and those of muscle, produce
                conditions which are ever provocative of industrial uncertainty, and therefore
                result in generating mental anxiety and worry.

              Accidents incident to our modern industrial life produce worry both in those who
                fear them and those who are compelled to suffer because of them; in fact, the
                complexity of the demands of our modern social and industrial organization is such
                as constantly to entoil us in the meshes of anxiety and worry.
            

            
            
              PERVERTED PROVERBS

              Many a good old saying, proverbial for its truthfulness when properly understood,
                has destroyed the peace and happiness of those who have come to worry over its too
                literal fulfillment. Take such a proverb as "Look before you leap." This old saying
                certainly contains good advice; but we have known a number of earnest men and women
                who have long remained stationary in their life plans, looking with such care and
                scrutiny over the present and the future, that they have failed to take advance
                steps; they have been altogether too fearful to leap; they would not dare take a
                chance, they were afraid of the risk. Old age is creeping upon them, and their
                careers have been ruined by a too literal interpretation and over-regard for such a
                good proverb as "Look before you leap."

              Another of the old proverbs, responsible for causing much worry, is the
                oft-repeated saying, "What is worth doing at all is worth doing well." While this
                proverb contains sound and wholesome advice for every young man and woman, it must
                also be remembered that every day of our lives we are called upon to perform a large
                number of wholly unessential tasks, tasks which are but temporary scaffolding, as it
                were, compared to the more important character-structure we are building. It is true
                that these minor tasks must be done with sufficient care so as not to endanger the
                real structure we are erecting; nevertheless, it would be a great waste of energy to
                try carefully to square, polish, and paint the scaffolding which stands but today
                and tomorrow is torn away.

              And this is true of much of our common work. Each day's efforts should be wisely
                divided up into the essential and the unessential; and as we review the events of
                the day in its closing hours, it should be no occasion for worry and self-reproach
                that some trifle has had to be slighted or altogether neglected. If the brick and
                mortar you have put into the real character structure are sound and good, if your
                wall has been raised up true to the plumb, let not the miscarriage of some detail
                either distress or worry you.

              Many conscientious young people have worried altogether  too much over such teaching as, "Be sure you are right, then go ahead." Owing to
                their peculiar mental make-up, their naturally diffident and hesitating disposition,
                they could never be quite sure that they were absolutely right; and so they never
                went ahead. For years they remain stationary in their life plans, first
                contemplating one thing, then another, and then pretty soon they begin seriously to
                worry because they have not gone ahead.

              "Haste makes waste" is usually found to be true; but there are times in life when
                it is absolutely necessary that one should make haste; when decisions must be
                quickly formed and speedily executed; delay would be fatal. Now, if in the sober
                after moments it should develop that the highest wisdom had not characterized the
                formation of these hasty conclusions, it should be no cause for life-long worry and
                everlasting regret. Perhaps no one else could have done better under the
                circumstances; after all, you did the best you could. If there is anything to learn
                from your apparent mistakes, learn it cheerfully, and then let the matter forever
                rest.

              And so we see that the misunderstanding and misinterpretation of even good and true
                teaching may lead to such a one-sided and extreme regard for truth and duty as to
                create a condition of mental uneasiness and dissatisfaction, eventually leading to
                chronic worry, with all its evil effects upon mind, soul,and body.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER
              

                 Strenuous living is not alone to blame for worry and nervousness.
                  Other factors are-- hereditary predisposition, lack of mind control, and
                  accidental stress or strain.

                 Childhood fears and early emotional disturbances are frequently at the
                  bottom of later nervous manifestations. The early use of tea, coffee, and other
                  narcotics is also responsible for worry and nervousness.

                 The fears, emotions, and indiscretions of the adolescent youth not
                  infrequently lay the foundations for life-long worry, nervousness, and
                  semi-invalidism.

                 Nervous stability is undermined by ignorance of sex hygiene,
                  misunderstanding of adolescent phenomena, and by the use of stimulants, together
                  with the strain of social activities.

                 Sensation, fear, and focalized attention are the elements  entering into the formation of the wicked and
                  destructive. "worry circle," by which means anxiety is perpetuated and chronic
                  worry tends ever to grow worse and worse, fed by the very elements of its own
                  creation.

                 Exaggerated and excessive self-consciousness is a common cause of
                  worry. An imaginary worry may be unreal, but a worried imagination is the realest
                  thing in the world.

                 We must strike an intelligent balance between too much work on one
                  hand, and the friction attendant thereon; and on the other hand, too much rest and
                  the rust of character which is sure to follow.

                 Mental work never kills. Mental work plus worry is highly injurious;
                  while mental work plus worry plus insomnia represents a combination which will
                  quickly destroy the health of mind and body.

                 In the last analysis, the most important factor in the direct
                  causation of nervous breakdown is the emotional life of the individual-- the mind
                  control-- or lack of control.

                 Thousands of souls are held in perpetual bondage by imaginary
                  fetters. They are victims of a "spirit of infirmity." A discouraged and downcast
                  mental attitude may so habitually bow down the body as to produce permanent
                  physical deformity.

                 When tempted to borrow trouble, when harassed by fictitious worries,
                  remember the old man who had passed through "many troubles-- most of which never
                  happened."

                 The moral habits and spiritual state not infrequently contribute much
                  toward the production of worry. Religion may be either a cause or a cure of worry.
                  As the old-fashioned religion declines, worry seems to increase. Religious
                  fanaticism is undoubtedly a cause for worry and nervousness.

                 Physical weakness, bodily deformity, and numerous diseases all figure
                  as causes of worry. Nine-tenths of ordinary non-contagious diseases originate in
                  the mind as a result of worry. Every age has its peculiar worries; there are
                  childhood worries, as well as old age worries.

                 Some new fangled health fad may set the whole country worrying about
                  indigestion and dyspepsia. Magazine articles and health books are often able to
                  give their nervous readers an entirely new set of imaginary diseases.

                 Common physical ailments which may be traced to worry are insomnia,
                  loss of weight, anaemia, rise of blood-pressure, hardening of the arteries,
                  premature old age, apoplexy, headache, dyspepsia, constipation, poor circulation,
                  and predisposition to catching disease.

                 Among the social causes of worry may be mentioned divorces, family
                  cares, household problems, and servant  difficulties;
                  as well as business difficulties, industrial disputes, and labor troubles.

                 "Look before you leap," and numerous other good proverbs may be so
                  perverted as to lead to much worry and inaction. Other proverbs commonly perverted
                  are, "What is worth doing at all is worth doing well;" and, "Be sure you are
                  right, then go ahead."

                 Each day's efforts should be wisely divided into the essential and
                  the non-essential; and it should be no occasion for worry if some trifle has been
                  slighted or neglected, as we review the events of the day.
              
            
          

          
            
            
              CHAPTER VII HABIT TENSION OF MIND AND BODY

            THE study of physiology and psychology disclose the vast
              possibilities existing in the human body and brain for the origin of inaccuracies, the
              birth of deceptions, the creation of delusions, and the production of a vast system of
              baseless fears, false conceptions, erroneous conclusions, and nervous tensions. This
              systematized mental fear, moral cowardice, and habit tension may be summed up in the
              one word-- superstition.

            
              ANCIENT HEALTH DELUSIONS

              From time immemorial, relics have been associated with health and disease. The
                bodies of either dead or living saints were supposed to be life-giving and healing
                to the touch-- even to touch the tombs of some of the saints was reputed to cure
                one's disease. Superstition has long since become almost a habit with many
                people.

              A decoction made of a piece of the tombstone of a good man was supposed to cure
                malignant disease when everything else had failed. For some diseases, it was a sure
                cure to lick the tombstone of a saint. To kiss the temple floors whereon saints had
                trod was also supposed to confer extraordinary healing power.

              Many of these relic delusions were systematically practised right up to the
                eighteenth century, and today we frequently read of pilgrimages and excursions to
                the relics and shrines of the saints, where scores of people are reputed to have
                been instantly healed of their diseases. The relic superstition has not entirely
                disappeared.
            

            
              SUPERSTITION AND NERVOUS DISORDERS

              The superstition of the ancients respecting the insane led to the most unfortunate
                and inhuman treatment of these mental  sufferers. The
                insane of past ages were the most maltreated of all the afflicted. The idea that
                mental diseases and insanity were directly attributable to demoniacal possession
                resulted in producing such a prejudice against the mentally unbalanced of olden
                times that they received but little or no sympathy and care from their fellow
                men.

              Another idea respecting insanity was that some forms of mental derangement came
                from allowing the moon to shine directly upon the face. Indeed, it was this belief
                that gave origin to the name lunacy-- from Luna, the moon. In the good old days,
                mental patients would have some superstitious remedy tried on them, and if they made
                no immediate improvement, they were cast out from civilization as victims of lunacy,
                or else they were regarded as having become possessed of devils. At a later date,
                lunatics were sometimes confined in what were known as "fool towers" and still later
                they were incarcerated in the "witch towers." It is certainly a cause for universal
                rejoicing and gratitude that in the case of these mental sufferers, the
                superstitions of the dark ages no longer guide society in its treatment of the
                insane and the mentally unbalanced. At the present time, in most parts of the United
                States, the mental patients confined in state institutions receive thorough-going
                up-to-date, and scientific treatment for their mental maladies. In recent years,
                medical superstition seems to have crystalized itself into numerous modern "mind
                cures" and "faith-healing" cults.
            

            
              THE PHYSIOLOGY OF HABIT

              The physiology of habit is explained by reference to the nervous reflex arc, by
                which means certain sensory nervous impressions are carried to the various nerve
                centers, where, after a time, they come spontaneously and automatically to produce
                certain definite motor responses. Nerve paths, as it were, are worn deeper and
                deeper, and this causes a given habit to become more and more deeply rooted.
                Frequent repetition of nervous impulses passing over the same path serves to wear
                the nervous groove deeper and deeper, just as frequent walking over the lawn will
                wear a deep path through the sod.

              

              The period of infancy is the special time for starting of initiating mental and
                physical habits. The longer the infancy of any animal, the greater the range and
                possibility for the formation of numerous habits-- good or bad-- which will prove
                either of great help or hindrance in after life. It is evident that not all of our
                habits are formed in infancy. Habits may be formed in after life; but the older the
                learner, the more difficult it is either to form or reform a habit. All our
                established habits form actual and literal pathways through the nervous mechanism of
                the body. Habits have a material foundation, and no habit when once thoroughly
                established can be changed without effecting a change in these nerve paths through
                the body, as a result of placing the nerve centers concerned under the absolute
                domination of an ever-watchful and all-powerful new idea.

              When we yield willingly and readily to the impulse to do a certain thing, the next
                time that same impulse is experienced the responsive action of the body will be just
                a little more quickly and easily performed. This frequent repetition establishes
                what the physiologists call the "path of motor discharge" ; and when a nervous path
                becomes well established, we have laid the foundation for a new habit. This
                constitutes the physiological explanation of habit.

              It is highly probable that in the early formation of habits, the discharge of motor
                impulses excited by sensory impressions follows the path of least resistance. Just
                as the small streamlets from a cake of melting ice make their way toward lower
                levels in obedience to the law of liquids, wearing a larger and larger groove as the
                volume of water increases, converting obstructions and obstacles into high retaining
                walls; so, eventually, the stream of nervous energy is compelled to flow in the deep
                and permanent grooves formed by its own long-continued action.
            

            
              THE PSYCHOLOGY OF HABIT

              Just as various groups of nerve cells in the spinal column and the lower nerve
                centers get into the way of working together (form habits of cooperation, in other
                words), so in the  case of the nerve cells in the
                higher brain centers. Various sensory and conscious nerve impressions come to be
                definitely associated, sooner or later, with the activity of certain definite groups
                of motor brain cells. Certain associated feelings and ideas are aroused by a given
                impulse, and by the repetition of this connection a mental habit is formed, which
                gradually wears down for itself definite material grooves in the paths of the
                brain.

              The machinery of thought rapidly settles into the ruts and grooves of its own
                formation. These psychic channels are formed in the early periods of life, and it is
                quite likely that they are largely established by the time a man reaches thirty
                years of age. Not that new channels of thought cannot be formed, and new
                associations of ideas affected; but, after this age, the mind forms new methods of
                thought and action with great difficulty, and only in response to definite mental
                training and continuous intellectual activity.

              Our psychic habits are formed also by the care or attention we pay to the constant
                stream of sensations which have their origin in all parts of the body, in sense
                impressions which never cease to recur as long as life lasts. Ordinarily, the vast
                majority of these impressions do not arouse sensations at all. Normally,
                furthermore, the majority of sensations so awakened have at most but a fleeting or
                momentary claim upon our attention. Those unfortunates who develop the habit of
                recognizing all these sensory reports from the outlying physical domains of the
                body, soon degenerate into confirmed neurasthenics. The old lady was not far from
                right when she advised the nervous young girl to keep her "mind off your
                thoughts."
            

            
              THE TYRANNY OF HABIT

              It must be evident that the formation of habits is a source of great economy to
                both mind and body. It should be also recognized that when habits are misformed,
                when mind and body are trained in unfortunate and unhealthy modes of thought and
                action, that the results upon the health, happiness, and character may be highly
                disastrous.

              Habit is a sort of partnership arrangement entered into  between the mind and the body for the purpose of accomplishing a maximum amount
                of work with a minimum expenditure of mental energy and physical force. If habits
                are well formed, intelligently shaped, and properly controlled, they become the
                great secret of mental conservation and a source of great physical economy; on the
                other hand, if habits are misformed-- if they are injurious to mind and body-- after
                they once become thoroughly established, they may enslave and rule their subject
                with absolute tyranny.

              When we recognize that it is just as easy to form a good habits as a bad habit,
                just as easy to acquire helpful habits as those which are injurious, it becomes
                apparent that a great responsibility rests upon parents and teachers to see to it
                that the children under their care early form correct and proper habits of thinking
                and acting.
            

            
              THE SLAVERY OF NERVOUS TENSION

              By nervous tension or obsession we refer to those constantly recurring ideas,
                feelings, or emotions which present themselves so insistently and automatically in
                our consciousness, and which always lead to the performance of certain useless
                actions or the thinking of certain foolish thoughts. These needless acts and
                thoughts are oftimes injurious to peace of mind and health of body. Our obsessions
                are not useful, and they are otherwise inharmonious with our useful mental
                experience and modes of acting; they are troublesome interlopers which have chosen
                our minds and bodies as their regular playground; their conduct results in
                constantly interfering with the normal work of both mind and body. Mental obsessions
                are probably due to a mild form of dissociation of ideas, while bodily obsessions
                are established after the usual methods of habit formation.

              Psychic obsessions are very common. The inconsistent notion that one must always be
                right has spoiled the health and ruined the happiness of thousands of people. This
                desire is born of an unhealthful tendency to want our way to become the pattern,
                after which all others must shape their conduct. This leads to an everlasting
                wrangle with one's associates, in which the victim of this obsession is ever
                contending that he is right and all the  world is
                wrong. It would add much to the happiness and health of some of these obstinate
                contenders for their own personal infallibility if they would come down from their
                high perch of perfection, confess their humanity, admit their blunders-- actually
                "acknowledge the corn" now and then. The world is filled with unhappy and irritable
                people who have never been known to confess to having made a mistake or done wrong
                in all their lives.

              Others live in constant slavery to fashion, to the fear of man, and the
                conventional way of doing things. The author has a dear friend who is simply killing
                himself with the obsession that he must carry through everything that he
                undertakes-- at any cost. His life is devoted to "carrying things through"-- to
                patching up his evident blunders and trying to make successful his repeated
                failures.

              Others are obsessed with the insane notion that they must set other people right--
                the notion of reforming the world. These people live in a constant state of worry
                and irritation because their petty hobbies do not gain the recognition which they
                think their schemes deserve.

              Certain sensitive and self-centered nervous people get the notion into their heads
                that they are being terribly persecuted; they fancy themselves living a life of
                perpetual martyrdom. They are victims of constant imaginary sufferings and
                fictitious slights. It would seem that some of them really learn to love this life
                of the false martyr.

              We are acquainted with a man who has made life unbearable for himself and family
                because of his ever-present obsessing ideas that he must accept no favors, allow no
                one to assist him, be under obligations to nobody; and these ideas have brought him
                almost to the verge of a form of insanity, so that he is persona non
                  grata in all circles.

              Dr. Sidis tells of a man who would never board a car with an odd number.
                Psychoanalysis disclosed the fact that he had once seen a child run down and
                seriously injured by an odd-numbered car. Never since witnessing this accident did
                he permit himself to board an odd numbered car.
            

            
            
              COMMON MOTOR OBSESSIONS

              This form of slavish worry has succeeded in fastening itself on the nervous system
                and the daily behavior of most of us in some form or other. It is shown in the case
                of the small boy, who, while going downtown on an errand for his mother, easily
                forgets what he was sent for, but in no wise forgets to kick every hitching-post he
                meets on the way down town. Even some adults cannot pass a post without touching it.
                It is likewise shown in the case of the woman who tries to keep from stepping on the
                cracks or seams of the sidewalk on her way down street.

              The awkward uneven steps of such an individual sometimes are sufficient to attract
                the attention of the passers-by. The author once followed a young lady for fourteen
                blocks and observed that this obsessed soul did not once permit her shoes to fall
                upon a seam in the cement walk.

              Have you not known the man who could not put his hand in his pocket without
                continuously counting the pieces of money contained therein? A patient recently told
                the author that he could not enjoy a stroll unless he had a bunch of money to count
                in his right-hand trousers' pocket; that if he did not have any loose change when he
                went out for a walk, he would have to go and get some; that he knew just how many
                pieces of money the pocket contained, and, if on any single count, he failed to find
                the right number, he would often have to stop dead still and carefully recount the
                coins to make sure that none had been lost; after which he could resume his
                walk.

              Another case of obsession is that of the person who cannot sit in a public
                auditorium or church without counting the number of rings, roses, or stripes on the
                wall-paper, usually trying to settle on the center one and then to watch it with an
                eagle eye. If for any reason the attention is distracted from this center figure and
                it is momentarily lost to view, the whole number of designs must be counted over
                again and the center carefully located.

              After speaking of this matter in a Chautauqua lecture one afternoon, an intelligent
                looking lady told us she had counted every seam in the tent, knew the middle seams,
                and likewise had counted the stripes of all the other tents on the grounds. She  said that this was her favorite pastime-- to count the
                stripes, figures, and other objects; if nothing else presented itself, she would
                count the pickets on the fence.

              We once had a patient, a young man, who, when not otherwise employed, would hie
                himself to the railroad and watch for the numbers on the freight cars, taking great
                delight when he would see a number which he could recall having seen sometime
                previous.

              A woman school teacher of middle age once consulted the author to see what help she
                could get for her obsession-- of everlastingly counting her steps. She said it was
                nineteen steps from her front porch to the gate; that it was 555 steps from her
                house to the grocery; that the court house had twenty-one steps going up the first
                flight, etc., etc. She said she made the trip from the house to the gate one day in
                one step short of the usual count, and was so disturbed that she had to go back to
                the house and walk the distance over again, that she might walk it in the usual
                number of steps. Others are possessed of obsessions born of their physical
                appearance, or determined by their undue tendency toward being too fat or too lean.
                Another very common obsession is the habitual twirling of the thumbs while the
                fingers are interlocked.

              Moll calls attention to the fact that the imperative concepts, obsessions, such,
                for instance, as the fear of open spaces (agoraphobia), owe their origin to
                auto-suggestion. The agoraphobic patient becomes dominated by the idea that he
                cannot traverse an open space, his own will is too weak to withstand this
                auto-suggestion, and every attempt to traverse an open space brings forth the
                typical feeling of fear.
            

            
              STILL OTHER OBSESSIONS

              It is indeed surprising to see how many otherwise sensible people are led into
                fears and worry by these common insistent ideas and impulses. They get into the
                notion that their spelling is wrong or that stray hairs or particles of lint are
                sticking to their clothes. Or perhaps it is in the motor sphere, and then the ideas
                take the form of imperative impulses or forced acts, such as smashing things or
                boxing people's ears. If it is the  feelings that are
                affected, especially feelings of anxiety, then we speak of phobias, such as fear of
                an empty room, fear of places, spiders, mice, etc.

              For the more general, less morbid desires or dislikes of individuals with reference
                to particular things we use the term idiosyncrasies. Forel says: "I saw a girl
                  whose life was a burden because she could never see a doll without becoming
                  fearfully afraid it would cry; that she would run away as from the devil
                  incarnate." Many people remain continually under the influence of a
                strongly-marked and exaggerated mood, which rests on a diseased disposition and is
                abnormal because it is for the most part without any real physical foundation. The
                moods include sadness and melancholy, sensitiveness, hate, jealousy, suspicion, or,
                on the other side, good spirits and mirthfulness or a form of heedless optimism.

              Some neurotic subjects have a wonderful faculty of crystalizing their fears and
                dreads. They seem to be a veritable Pandora box of phobias. They live in constant
                terror of thunder storms, high places, drinking water, animals, mad dogs, tornadoes,
                etc., etc.
            

            
              VITAL SEEPAGE-- ENERGY LEAKAGE

              The world is filled with nervous, fidgety persons who, while they are probably not
                victims of definite mental or motor obsessions, are constantly engaged in numerous
                physical activities which are wholly useless and unnecessary. Every such useless act
                constitutes a needless drain on the nervous system.

              Such slaves of habit cannot sit down without crossing their legs and tossing the
                foot, or tapping the foot on the floor. Some part of their anatomy must be in
                rhythmical and incessant action. Others will twist their moustaches or play with
                their hair. We are acquainted with a professional man who cannot sit down a moment
                without starting up a drumming with his feet on the floor, or else he will beat an
                incessant tattoo with his hands on the chair. Others are everlastingly fixing their
                clothes or adjusting the necktie; they seem never to be able to complete their
                toilet. All these needless and useless maneuverings constitute a tremendous nervous
                and vital drain on the victim's  constitution. It is a
                sort of vital seepage-- there is a constant leakage of nervous force and muscular
                energy.

              We know a young business man who is constantly clearing his throat. We have a
                patient who engages in incessant coughing-- purely nervous coughing. Numerous cases
                of nervous breakdown from worry are due to just this sort of nervous extravagance
                plus incessant brooding and perpetual. worry. No constitution can long stand to be
                drained by worry, other vital leakage, and obsessions. Sooner or later, the
                strongest nervous system will be undermined, the vitality of the sufferer
                effectively sapped, and the resultant catastrophe strikes; there occurs either a
                blow-up or a breakdown.

              "Sidetrackability" is the name which some one has given to the condition of those
                nervous, erratic people whose energies are being diverted from a legitimate and
                natural source into abnormal and harmful channels.
            

            
              SYSTEM AND ORDER

              Many persons would improve their peace of mind and health of body if they would
                learn to be systematic and orderly in the details of their everyday life. To look at
                the desks of some business men; to look into the study rooms of some professional
                men, to go through the homes of some housewives, is enough to explain why so many of
                these people work so hard and accomplish so little. Everything is in disorder no
                system prevails.

              It is highly essential that intelligent methods and automatic habits should be
                formed for carrying on one's regular daily work; on the other hand, it is altogether
                possible to make a veritable obsession out of law and order. We are acquainted with
                a young man who accomplishes but little in life except to keep his study in order.
                So, while we recommend system and order as a means of economizing time and energy,
                we do not mean that they should be carried to the point of unbounded fussiness and
                unbearable neatness.

              Nevertheless, it is a fact that, by making as much of our work as possible
                automatic, we relieve the higher controlling centers of the brain from the necessity
                of attending to these details, and in this way, we vastly increase the opportunity
                and  power of the mind for the performance of
                additional useful and original work.
            

            
              COOL-HEADEDNESS

              One of the things most needed in our modern civilization is cool-headedness, the
                power to think more than once while in the same spot. Thoughtlessness is responsible
                for many of our difficulties. Some unfortunate souls have got into a chronic habit
                of "being constantly rushed." It makes no difference where or when you meet them,
                they are "simply rushed to death;" "haven't time to think;" "so glad to see you, but
                haven't time to talk it over now;" etc., etc. Why, it really makes you nervous
                simply to meet them on the street. They seem to have a sort of psychic St. Vitus'
                dance.

              These restless people are like a steam engine with the governor off; they are
                making a great fuss, a big noise, but they are accomplishing but little in the line
                of real, useful work. These chronically rushed folks keep both mind and body working
                under a terrible strain, until by and by this state of strain becomes habitual; they
                become chronically keyed up; they cannot let go; they cannot relax. Even when they
                go to bed at night, they are still so rushed that they are often unable to find time
                to go to sleep, and consequently they lie awake half the night.

              This unnecessary and abnormal rushing through life is probably due to exaggerated
                ideas of one's importance, or else it must be due to an overestimation of the
                importance of the work one is doing. Most of us need to learn to take ourselves less
                seriously, and some ought to learn to take even their work less seriously. It was a
                wise mother who said to her nervous daughter, "My child you cannot possibly
                exaggerate the unimportance of things."
            

            
              ENVIRONMENTAL NERVOUS TENSION

              It is a great gift to know how to get along with one's surroundings; how to react
                to the changes and experiences in one's environment; how calmly to accept those
                changes which cannot be made different; how to be a successful reformer, and yet how
                to keep from worrying over those things which cannot be  changed. It requires strong character to live with one's associates and yet not
                to resent their incivilities or to be chafed and exasperated by their shortcomings.
                It is a good plan, "when in Rome, to do as Rome does." The chameleon is a fortunate
                animal; it has power to change its own color to harmonize with the color of its
                environment.

              A certain degree of muscular rigidity is required, when one is standing, but this
                is wholly unnecessary when resting in a chair. How many of us hold ourselves just as
                tight in the chair as if we were holding the body upright while walking. Why should
                a carriage ride completely exhaust a healthy man? Simply because he did not adjust
                himself harmoniously to the environment of the drive, he did not fully relax and
                enjoy the ride. All the while, he was in constant fear of the horse running away, or
                else by his anxiety and tension he endeavored to assist the horse in pulling the
                carriage, instead of entering into the joys and pleasures of the drive.

              When riding on the train, we should become as one with the coach and be carried
                along without resistance, by the engine, stopping, starting, and otherwise moving in
                perfect harmony and attune with the train; this is what we mean by harmonizing with one's environment; it is a process of moving through life
                with the least possible friction consistent with the greatest possible mental and
                physical action. It is a scheme for improving and changing every remediable and
                objectionable factor in our environment, without in the least fretting or fuming
                over those conditions which we cannot change or remove.

              We recently rode on the train behind a high-strung, tense, nervous traveler, who,
                on alighting from the train, exclaimed, as she fell into the arms of a waiting
                friend, "Oh! Mary, I am just all worn out," and I remarked in my own mind, "no
                wonder, she paid two cents a mile to ride, and then she helped the engine pull the
                train every mile of the journey."
            

            
              THE NERVOUS RHYTHM OF HABIT

              We should constantly bear in mind that habits usually establish themselves in
                harmony with certain laws of periodicity. There is a tendency toward regularity in
                the motor discharge of  our established habits, whether
                it be the drumming of the fingers on the table or the regular sprees of the
                periodical drunkard.

              We get the habit of having periodic stimulation-- that is, periodically whipping
                our nerves; some are addicted to the use of alcohol and other drugs, still others
                make use of tea and coffee. The use of these nerve excitants and depressants is a
                confession of weakness of character on the part of those who depend on these various
                unnatural and harmful methods of exercising the nervous system. This rhythmic
                tendency of nervous impulses is an important factor in overcoming bad habits-- in
                the reeducation of the nervous system. It is necessary that all formative and
                reformatory efforts should be systematic and regular; every effort to retrain the
                body and form new habits should faithfully be carried out in accordance with this
                law of nervous periodicity.
            

            
              CAN NERVOUS HABITS BE CHANGED?

              Since habits possess a real physical foundation and an actual psychologic basis,
                can they be modified, reshaped, or otherwise changed after their slave has reached
                maturity? The answer to this question embraces a number of factors. The eradication
                of the old habit or the formation of the new, first demands the absolute cooperation
                of the will, the complete making up of one's mind to do the thing in question. It
                next requires that the body itself shall be set in operation in the desired
                direction of forming the new habit. New thoughts must be formulated and actually
                placed in command of the mind. The new actions must be executed with decision and
                regularity. The new habit must be repeatedly and persistently wrought out through
                the physical body.

              Persistent, intelligent, regular, systematic, and determined effort on the part of
                the mind will prove successful in uprooting almost any and every habit which can
                fasten itself upon the human mind or body.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER
              

                 Nervous tension is akin to the habits of superstition. The mind easily
                  falls into "ruts and grooves," taking the path of least resistance.

                

                 Nervous disorders and insanity have long been regarded with amazing
                  superstition. "Fool towers" and "witchcraft" are not delusions of the remote past.
                  Only recently have either "nervousness" or "insanity" come to be regarded
                  "sanely."

                 Habit is a sort of possible economical arrangement or understanding
                  existing between the mind and the body-- and is capable of almost unlimited
                  perversion for evil when not rightly formed and intelligently controlled.

                 The period of infancy is the special time for initiating habits. The
                  longer the infancy of an animal, the greater the range and possibilities for the
                  formation of habits.

                 Habits are due to actual pathways through the nervous mechanism of the
                  body. Habits have a material foundation as well as a mental basis.

                 Every time an act is repeated its performance becomes easier and
                  easier; the "path of motor discharge" becomes increasingly automatic and
                  established.

                 Colonies of brain cells and groups of ideas (psychic centers) come
                  also to form definite and habitual associations. In this way mental habits are
                  formed, habits of thought.

                 The thinking machinery readily settles into the ruts and grooves of
                  its own formation. After thirty years of age, new habits are formed only as the
                  result of persistent psychic training.

                 Habit is a sort of partnership arrangement between the mind and the
                  body for the purpose of accomplishing a maximum of work with a minimum expenditure
                  of energy.

                 It is just as easy to form a good habit as a bad one. When bad habits
                  become established, they rule their slave with absolute tyranny.

                 An obsession is a constantly recurring idea, feeling, or emotion,
                  which presents itself incessantly and automatically in our experience, and which
                  leads to the thinking of certain foolish thoughts and the performance of certain
                  useless acts.

                 Mental obsessions are probably due to a mild form of
                  idea-dissociation, while motor obsessions are simply habitual acts resulting from
                  automatic and uncontrolled motor discharges.

                 Common obsessions are such as insistent ideas, counting, kicking
                  posts, wiggling the toes, twirling the thumbs, twisting the moustache, drumming on
                  the chair, or tossing the foot when the les are crossed.

                 Other obsessions are fear of open spaces, distrust of one's spelling,
                  fear of hairs on the clothing, fear of empty rooms, spiders, mice, etc.

                These obsessions and near-obsessions constitute a tremendous vital
                  drain upon the constitution. These useless  maneuvers
                  represent a species of vital seepage-- leakage of nervous force and muscular
                  energy.

                 Tossing of the foot when the legs are crossed; tapping on the table
                  with the fingers or on the floor with the foot, together with nervous coughing,
                  etc., all constitute a form of energy leakage.

                 System and order in doing one's daily work are highly economical and
                  helpful. Automatic action conserves the time and energy of the higher brain
                  centers. It is possible to convert law and order into an obsession, so that
                  instead of proving a help in the daily affairs of life, it becomes a veritable
                  bondage.

                 The habit of "being rushed" is chronic with some persons. It is an
                  extravagant practice-- wasteful of vital energy. Cool-headedness would help
                  numerous people out of many of their troubles.

                 A common form of habit tension is seen in environmental resistance,
                  such as rigidity while riding on street cars and railroad trains. Relaxation is
                  synonymous with harmonizing one's environment.

                 Habits are usually formed in accordance with the nervous laws of
                  periodicity. Motor discharge usually follows a law of regularity when it becomes
                  habitual, as in the case of the periodical drinker.

                 Persistent, intelligent, systematic, and determined effort on the
                  part of the mind will usually prove successful in uprooting any undesirable habit
                  which may have fastened itself on mind or body.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER VIII CRYSTALIZED FEAR AND DEFINITE
              DREADS

            IN A general way we have dealt with the long established fears and
              other obsessions in the preceding chapter. In this chapter we will treat of those
              special crystalized fears and certain definite phobias or dreads. Phobia is the Greek
              word meaning fear, and many nervous invalids had rather have their crystalized fears
              called "phobias" than to have them designated in plain English as definite dreads.

            
              SPECIALIZED PHOBIAS

              It would surprise those who are unfamiliar with the fears of nervous patients, to
                know how many otherwise sanely appearing individuals are afflicted with these forms
                of specialized fear or phobias. There is aerophobia-- the dread of air. Some
                patients are particularly afraid of night air, just as if after sunset there was any
                other sort of air to be had.

              Hydrophobia means literally the dread of water, but in these days it has come to be
                applied to a well defined disease acquired from the bite of a mad dog-- rabies;
                although it would seem there are still to be found certain strata of society who may
                be said to possess more or less of a well defined dread of water as regards both its
                internal use and external application.

              Then we have aichmophobia-- the dread of pointed tools or instruments. I have a
                patient at the present time who says that when she gets a glimpse of any sharp or
                pointed instrument such as a pair of scissors, she is seized with a desire to stab
                herself or else is tormented with the fear that she will harm some one else.

              Kenophobia stands for the dread of emptiness, and there are those victims of
                chronic fear who could not possibly be dragged into an empty house or vacant
                building. I have just received a  letter from a patient
                who says her life has been ruined by the constant dread of "going away from
                home."

              Sitophobia is the dread of food and is often found in well marked melancholia,
                while a specialized form of this fear-- a dread of some particular article of food--
                is not uncommon in neurasthenics. Brontophobia, or the fear of thunder is a dread
                commonly met with, and one that is greatly aggravated by the manner in which nervous
                adults exhibit their fears during an electrical storm in the presence of young
                children.

              Some people are greatly disturbed by regularly-dropping water-- as from an
                eavestrough or faucet. The Chinese are said to put their enemies to death by having
                a drop of water fall at regular intervals upon the top of the head.

              Phobophobia is nothing more nor less than the dread of dreading, and some chronic
                worriers, it would seem, when they have nothing more definite to be afraid of, are
                easily able to work up a case of phobophobia.

              In dealing with nervous sufferers, it is my practice not to make use of these high
                sounding terms in discussing the patient's fears and dreads. It is disconcerting and
                tends unduly to frighten these nervous sufferers to be told they are suffering from
                this phobia or that phobia. I must prefer to use a plain English word, telling my
                patients they are victims of this fear and that dread, and let it go at that.
            

            
              ALTITUDE AND SPACE DREADS

              It has been my observation that practically everybody has a sort of instinctive
                dread or fear of looking down from great heights. The majority of people are able
                largely to conquer this fear of great heights-- otherwise known as acrophobia.
                Structural iron workers employed in erecting our modern steel skyscrapers are able,
                little by little, to master this inherent dread of great heights to such an extent
                that almost any day one may see these workers standing or walking on steel beams
                twenty-five or thirty stories up in the air. It makes most of us feel a little
                chilly up and down the spine when we see a steeple-jack perched high up on some
                lofty smokestack.

              Workmen have told me that they had gradually to accustom 
                
                  Fig. 4. The Fear of Great Heights
                
                
                 themselves to these great heights, and that at first
                they were in constant danger of losing their balance if they permitted themselves to
                look too steadfastly at the ground; and it is a well-known fact that in case of an
                accidental fall on the part of a workman employed on one of these high buildings,
                the rest of the force usually quit work for that day. It requires a night's sleep to
                restore their nerve. (Fig. 4.)

              The physical basis of this form of fear is probably to be found in the fact that we
                have habitually trained our eyes to look upon objects near at hand, and, therefore,
                when we are suddenly and unexpectedly compelled to look out upon objects at an
                unaccustomed distance from our position, the novelty, of the situation is found to
                be more or less disconcerting to one's mental and nervous equilibrium.

              It is not always great heights that produce this fear or dread. We know of patients
                who are exquisitely tortured if they are compelled to sit in the front row of the
                balcony in some place of public amusement; while not long since we were consulted by
                a clergyman whose very success and usefulness were jeopardized by the definite dread
                that he would some time jump from or fall off the pulpit. This fear never ceased to
                tantalize him throughout every discourse he delivered.

              Akin to this fear of altitude is the fear of going alone across open spaces--
                agoraphobia. This is a form of fear that some nervous people suffer from throughout
                a lifetime. Many of these persons who could not possibly be persuaded to traverse a
                large open space alone are entirely content to make the journey when accompanied by
                even a small child.

              Another fear pertaining to space is that of claustrophobia-- the fear of closed
                spaces. Some people are very nervous when they are compelled to walk through a
                narrow street, having high buildings on either side. Others become nervous, fidgety,
                and sometimes pale with fear, when an elevator door closes and they find themselves
                actually shut up in a steel cage. They are almost overwhelmed with a desire to try
                to make their escape even while the elevator is in motion. A milder form of this
                same dread is observed in those travelers who horribly dislike to be forced to sit
                in the same seat with another passenger. They  have an
                unnatural fear of being crowded. When in other tight places, they find breathing
                difficult, cold perspiration breaks out on the face, and they are seized with an
                almost uncontrollable desire to tear themselves away, to jump out, etc., etc.
            

            
              THE DREAD OF DISEASE, DIRT AND DEATH

              It is a well known fact that patients suffering from locomotor ataxia entertain
                such definite fears of being unable to walk (basophobia) as greatly to aggravate
                their malady and still further decrease their powers of locomotion. I have no doubt
                that many of the hysterical palsies are in reality due to these same definite
                dreads. Some authorities even claim that vertigo and blushing (erythrophobia) may
                result in this same manner when the fear of them has come to possess the
                patient.

              The dread of dirt (misophobia) has grown vastly in recent years, and is closely
                related to microphobia (the fear of microbes or germs). Some of these unfortunate
                sufferers will wash their hands no less than fifty times a day. They are afraid to
                shake hands with their neighbors and, as one might easily imagine, afraid to greet a
                long absent friend with an affectionate kiss. We knew of a young man who would never
                go anywhere alone, for fear he would be compelled to touch a door knob. We recently
                had a patient who had made herself a semi-nervous invalid, trying to disinfect the
                house and otherwise fight the myriads of microbes which all the while lurked near
                her. She was only helped by persistent training along those lines which served to
                show her that the normal healthy man was mightier than the microbe.

              Pathophobia is the dread of disease, and many indeed are its specialized forms--
                far too many to receive consideration here. It is an old proverb that "a little
                knowledge is a dangerous, thing," and this is certainly true in matters of personal
                health and hygiene. Unless we can teach the individual a sufficient amount of truth
                to deliver him from groundless fears and baseless dreads, it would otherwise seem,
                that all our half-way efforts to enlighten him had only increased his worries and
                further multiplied his ungrounded fears of disease.

              Phthisiophobia-- the fear of tuberculosis, is one which the  average person, at least in some measure, is beginning to recover
                from.

              The dread of insanity constantly hovers over some nervous patients who may have
                been so unfortunate as to have had an insane relative or ancestor. Such patients are
                terribly depressed by even hearing the term mentioned, while the sight of an insane
                asylum, even from a passing train, is enough to disturb them for weeks
                afterwards.

              Metchnikoff looks upon even the dread of death as an unnatural form of fear. He
                thinks that all persons that have lived anything like the normal life should come to
                look upon death without the least thought of fear. And it would certainly seem that
                men and women who entertain the Christian hope of the life beyond, should come to
                look upon death without dread and without fear. Much less is there excuse for the
                extraordinary dread some people entertain of viewing, touching or handling the dead
                body.
            

            
              ANIMALS AND THE DARK

              Zoophobia (the fear of animals) is a form of ever present dread, which tortures
                countless thousands of otherwise brave and normal people. And one hardly feels like
                trying utterly, to eradicate this fear of animals as long as mad dogs are allowed to
                prowl about the streets of our cities and villages. But when this fear of animals
                becomes a veritable obsession as in the case of some persons in their fear of
                snakes, mice, or spiders, it certainly needs to be combated, even as it does also in
                those cases of the silly and ridiculous fear of cats (ailurophobia). We recently had
                a patient who was almost certain to have a hysterical fit if left alone in a room
                with a cat, even but for a few brief moments. And I am bound to confess that this
                woman was by no means neurasthenic-- it was simply a case of crystalized fear--
                definite dread.

              The fear of cats is so great with some persons as to preclude their wearing furs
                derived from any member of the cat family; while others are so sensitive on this
                point, that they are able to detect the presence of a cat in the room or even in the
                house by the sense of smell. Weir Mitchell, in his essay on this  subject, cited numerous cases which showed beyond
                question that certain nervous women are possessed of an extraordinarily acute sense
                of smell as regards the detection of these special odors; while Scripture reports
                the case "of a woman in charge of a boarding school who always sorted the boys'
                linen after the wash by the odor alone."

              From earliest infancy some otherwise normally healthy persons have grown up
                possessed of an absurd dread of the dark. Many of them will positively refuse to
                sleep in a room at night without some form of low-burning light. If such persons
                attempt to sleep in a dark room, they are made inordinately nervous by every form of
                sound, both real and imaginary. The wind, the doors, the windows, the creaking of
                the floor and what-not, all serve to alarm them as effectually to prevent rest and
                sleep.

              We all know of nervous women as well as men, who live in constant fear of finding
                some one in a dark room. Before retiring at night they never fail to look under the
                bed.

              Now this fear of the dark is regarded by many as cowardice, but, in my opinion, it
                has its origin back in the early childhood days when parents and nurses
                thoughtlessly frightened the little ones when they said "Boo, Dark" or when they
                threatened them with the "boogie man," "hobgoblins," and "the bad man."
            

            
              DREAMS AND MEMORY DREADS

              It not infrequently happens that some definitely experienced dread has its origin,
                maybe unconsciously, away back in the individual's life, in the form of some
                alarming experience or some tragic accident. Subconsciously, as it were, this memory
                fear is passed on down through the experience of subsequent years and is ever
                present, always ready to alarm and demoralize the individual in a most bewildering
                manner-- and all this it does, while the fear-ridden sufferer is quite unable to
                explain either the origin or basis of his unnatural fears and abnormal dreads.

              Likewise are the unremembered dreams of the night season able to extend over their
                fears and dreads into the working hours, and are able thus unconsciously, to torment
                and  torture the innocent and susceptible nervous
                sufferer. There is no doubt in my mind but that the unremembered experiences of a
                frightful nightmare are perfectly able to render the patient so nervous and uneasy
                as almost entirely to unfit him for the performance of his customary duties the
                following day.
            

            
              PREMONITIONS

              The belief in premonitions is based upon superstition, suggestion, and fear. Some
                people are subject to definite premonitions, such as the dread of a fire, a train
                wreck, or a street accident. Others suffer from a generalized premonitory state bf
                mind-- the vague and depressing fear that something awful is going to happen. A
                common premonition is that of a loss of health or early death.

              Premonitions are indicative of lax mental discipline, and serve to show that the
                mind is permeated with fear and dominated by dread. It is my opinion that the
                popular belief in premonitions is originated and fostered by the newspaper
                publication of stories about persons who were possessed of an impending sense of
                danger or doom-- or who had a definite premonition that some accident was about to
                happen-- and then something really did happen. While the larger part of these
                stories which appear in the papers may not be true, nevertheless, their influence is
                such as to further foster this lingering superstition in the reliability of
                premonitions. The newspapers do not bother themselves to publish the accounts of
                those untold thousands of cases where premonitions failed-- neither do we take the
                trouble to remember these cases.

              People are more subject to premonitions on dark and dismal days. They are also more
                common in the spring and the fall. This particular form of dread is also greatly
                increased by suggestion. I well recall a case of a suburban wreck a few years ago,
                in which the front coach was badly demolished, and I noticed that for months and
                even years after this accident, that the passengers studiously avoided that front
                coach. There was an immediate decrease in the number of people who would allow
                themselves to ride in that car. The soil and the seed for suggestion are both needed
                to produce premonitions.
            

            
            
              MEMORY DECEPTIONS

              Royce thinks that many supposedly fulfilled premonitions art really
                pseudo-presentiments-- a sort of hallucination of memory that twists and deceives us
                into believing, after the thing has happened-- that we had either dreamed of it
                previously or had a premonition. This is in harmony with Podmore's suggestion of how
                a tricky memory may instantaneously rearrange the details of a dream or premonition
                to make it fit into the actual occurrences. It is certain that no reliance can be
                placed on stories of dream fulfillment unless the dream was told or written out
                beforehand.

              Since the vast majority of people are having premonitions every day, and dreaming
                dreams every night, it is not to be wondered at that now and then one or two should
                appear to come true or be fulfilled. These rare cases are then published broadcast
                and ten thousand more nervous invalids begin to hate out a new brood of foolish
                worries and silly dreads. That a premonition will occasionally come true, may be
                accepted as a reasonable guess as shown by the mathematics of coincidences as based
                upon the theory of probabilities.
            

            
              ORIGIN OF PREMONITIONS

              The further origin of premonition is discovered in the prostitution of reasonable
                forethought and care. There is certainly nothing abnormal but everything
                commendatory in a stranger's careful examination of the exits, fire escapes, etc.,
                connected with his sleeping apartments in a strange hotel; but when precautionary
                instinct is allowed to degenerate into a definite dread of the hotel's burning up on
                that particular night, it is then that the patient has become a victim of this
                harmful sort of fear called premonition. Think of all San Francisco's inhabitants,
                who for years may have had earthquake premonitions which were never realized, and
                then how innocently they all retired the evening before the great shake, wholly free
                from premonitions of what was about to occur; but on being shaken out of bed early
                the next morning were able immediately to conjure up the memory of some former
                earthquake premonition  and actually to deceive
                themselves into believing that they had had such a presentiment the evening
                before.
            

            
              UNFULFILLED PRESENTIMENTS

              I have found it helpful in dealing with my patients who torture themselves with
                premonitions, to emphasize cases in my own experience which have not been fulfilled.
                I have often used in this connection the story of Carl Schurz as told in his
                "recollections." General Schurz describes how, on the morning of the battle of
                Chancellorsville, he awoke with the profound conviction-- a veritable premonition--
                that his time had come, that he would be killed in that day's battle. He had never
                had such a premonition before. He had heard of other cases where such presentiments
                were the forerunner of death. He tried to shake off this fear, but it gripped him;
                he was unable to free himself from it. As the day went on the conviction grew, and
                finally he sat down and wrote farewell letters to his family, and then he went forth
                into the battle. And when his corps was summoned onto the firing line, he then knew
                that his premonition was genuine and he plunged into the fight with the full
                conviction that the end was nigh; but he was a sturdy German and a well trained
                soldier, and history shows how well he kept his courage and how splendidly he
                managed his troops; but his deadly premonition did not leave him until, while riding
                to the front, his aide-de-camp was cut down by a cannon ball. Upon seeing his aid
                shot down, the fear of death departed from the general's mind, in the same
                unreasoning manner in which it had come. His fear was gone, he plunged into the
                thickest of the fight, and came out-- untouched.

              And this story splendidly illustrates two points; first, even a strong-minded,
                well-trained soldier, may have premonitions of fear; and, second, that all of us
                live to have many, many, premonitions, most of which never happen.
            

            
              THE TREATMENT OF DREADS

              While the details of the treatment of these various nervous states is reserved for
                consideration in later chapters, it will not be out of place to offer brief remedial
                suggestions here.

              

              The one thing essential in overcoming chronic dreads is simple, methodic, mental
                discipline. It you can walk without fear along a wooden beam ten inches wide when
                elevated one foot above the ground, common sense goes to show that it is only a
                matter of confidence, practice and experience-- mental discipline-- until you can
                walk on an iron beam, ten inches wide two hundred feet above the ground if
                necessary. This is exactly the way the builder effectually overcomes this inherent
                fear of great heights. And it serves the purpose of a practical illustration,
                showing just how all crystalized fears and definite dreads may be successfully
                mastered.

              Like a horse that shies, the victim of dreads should deliberately, methodically and
                persistently drive himself right up face to face with his hoodoo and bravely assault
                the psychological enemy. He should attack these peculiar forms of fear just as he
                would the more silly and superstitious hoodoos of "Friday the thirteenth," or the
                supposed unluckiness of sitting down with thirteen at the table.

              I help many of my patients over these dreads by telling them that they are
                practically universal; that is, that practically everybody has or has had at some
                time or other, one or more of these petty fears. As they laugh at other people's
                fears it helps them to laugh at their own. They are altogether too likely to regard
                their fears as unusual and unique and it rather helps them to find out that they are
                little different from other people, except for the fact that they take their fears
                and dreads too seriously.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Victims of so-called "phobias" are suffering from common everyday
                  dreads-- only they have come to dread their dreads.

                 Common among these crystallized fears and definite dread, may be
                  mentioned rophobia-- the dread of air.

                 Other dreads are hydrophobia-- fear of water; aichmophobia-- dread of
                  pointed tools; kenophobia-- the dread of emptiness; sitophobia-- the dread of
                  food; brontophobia-- the fear of thunder; and phobophobia-- the dread of
                  dreading.

                 In dealing with nervous patients it is best not to use these
                  mouth-filling Greek words to describe their fears. Use a simple English word and
                  call them dreads.

                

                 Acrophobia-- the instinctive fear of heights-- is a well-nigh
                  universal dread. But reason, practice, and perseverance are able practically to
                  cure it.

                 This fear of heights-- small and great-- rests on a physical basis. It
                  results from the fact that our eyes are trained to view objects near at hand, so
                  that a sudden view from a high point disconcerts the nervous equilibrium.

                 The dread of small heights is also common. Women fear to sit in the
                  front row of the balcony at the theater and clergymen fear they will fall off
                  their pulpits.

                 Agoraphobia is the dread of open spaces; while claustrophobia is the
                  fear of closed spaces-- the dread of entering elevators, sitting in tight places,
                  etc.

                 Certain people live in constant dread of dirt-- misophobia; while
                  others are kept miserable by the fear of germs-- microphobia. They are engaged
                  constantly in washing their hands and otherwise trying to avoid
                  contamination.

                 Pathophobia is the dread of disease, and thousands live in constant
                  fear of bodily disorders which are in no danger of overtaking them.

                 Some nervous patients who have had an insane relative or ancestor
                  live all their lives tormented by the fear that they may go crazy.

                 The fear of death is regarded by Metchnikoff as an unnatural dread.
                  At least it would seem that a Christian's hope would rob death of all
                  dread.

                 Zoophobia-- the fear of animals-- is variously manifested as a dread
                  of snakes, spiders, mice, and mad dogs, experienced by so many otherwise brave and
                  normal people.

                 One of the most silly of all animal dreads is the preposterous fear
                  of cats (ailurophobia) which certain individuals so persistently entertain.

                 From earliest infancy some people have grown up possessed of an
                  absurd dread of the dark. They think they cannot sleep in a room without a light
                  and are tremendously annoyed by sounds of all descriptions.

                 Much of this fear of the dark probably has its origin in hobgoblin
                  stories and the bogy man threats of early childhood.

                 Definite dreads may have their origin in some long forgotten alarming
                  experience, tragic accident, or in some vivid dream. It persists as a sort of
                  unconscious memory dread.

                 Premonitions are based on superstition, suggestion, and fear. They
                  may be definite-- as dread of an accident-- or general-- as the presentiment that
                  something awful is going to happen.

                 Newspaper stories of fulfilled premonitions tend to keep  alive this silly superstition. People are more
                  subject to these fears on dismal days, and in the spring and fall.

                 Tricks of memory sometimes deceive us into believing we have had a
                  dream or premonition after things have happened.

                 Premonitions may originate in the prostitution of ordinary
                  forethought and reasonable precaution-- as in locating fire escapes in a strange
                  hotel.

                 Study unfulfilled premonitions and remember that we are all more or
                  less subject to these silly fears, and that we all live to have many, many
                  premonitions-- the vast majority of which never happen.

                 The essential thing in the treatment of these common dreads is
                  simple, methodic, mental discipline. Treat yourself like a shying horse-- drive
                  right up face to face with your fears-- and teach yourself how to laugh at your
                  own fears-- just as merrily as you laugh at other people's silly dreads.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER IX "AMERICANITIS," OR THE HIGH
              PRESSURE LIFE


            WHILE we have emphasized the influence of the hereditary factors in
              the causation of worry and nervousness, nevertheless, we are not unmindful of the fact
              that our modern strenuous methods of work and habits of living may have something to
              do with the alarming present-day increase in those nervous disorders commonly embraced
              in the terms "neurasthenia" and "nervous prostration."

            The American people, especially, are more and more addicting themselves to a
              combination of mental habits and physical practices which are directly and indirectly
              responsible for increasing nervous tension together with raising the blood-pressure,
              thus laying the foundation for those typical cases of nervous collapse commonly spoken
              of as "nervous breakdown," "neurasthenia," etc., and which are usually accompanied by
              low or lowered blood-pressure, great nerve-weakness, and a general all around "rundown
              feeling." We are more and more inclined to the belief that it is the strenuous living
              and not strenuous working that is largely responsible for all this increase in nervous
              trouble. While modern life may be more complex, it is also becoming more and more
              simplified. We certainly do more work, but we have better system and more machinery to
              do it with.

            
              THE SIGNIFICANCE OF BLOOD PRESSURE

              In this connection it may be well to offer a word of explanation as to the method
                of taking blood-pressure, and as to the standards of normal blood-pressure. There
                have been devised a number of instruments having attachments which can be strapped
                around the arm, so that by means of pumping air into a little rubber bag underneath,
                pressure can be applied to the  blood vessels of the
                arm. By means of a rubber tube, this air-pressure is communicated to a chamber
                containing mercury and surmounted by a glass tube marked with a millimeter scale,
                arranged somewhat after the plan of a barometer. The pressure is now gradually
                removed until the pulse at the wrist can just be felt, and then on the graduated
                glass tube is read off just how many millimeters of mercury are equivalent to the
                patient's blood-pressure.

              An ordinary healthy adult under forty-five years of age has a blood-pressure
                varying from 110 to 130 millimeters of mercury (about five inches in English
                measurement). A series of five thousand apparently healthy adults, tested during the
                last seven years, showed a general average of 123 millimeters. The ages of this
                group ran from twenty to forty-five years.

              The one thing characteristic of the present-day social and commercial world is its
                high tension; so many people are keyed up to the last notch. People are living at a
                fierce pace, and the pressure-gauge of life for many registers all the while
                dangerously near the bursting point. (Fig. 5.)

              High blood-pressure (or secondary low pressure) is directly and indirectly
                responsible for numerous bodily ailments and certain grave physical catastrophes,
                and is intimately connected with such serious disorders as chronic headaches,
                arteriosclerosis or hardening of the arteries, apoplexy and its subsequent
                paralysis, heart-failure, Bright's disease, insomnia, neurasthenia, chronic
                congestions and certain forms of insanity.
            

            
              HIGH BLOOD-PRESSURE

              There are numerous substances which, when taken into the body, together with
                certain mental states, have power to influence the blood-pressure, some lowering it,
                while others cause it to rise. Now, when the blood-pressure is raised, it will be
                seen at once that more blood will circulate through the brain as well as through
                other parts of the body; and therefore, when the blood-pressure is moderately high,
                since the blood is that which nourishes the body and gives it life, it will not be
                hard to imagine that the patient will feel exhilarated and buoyant, able to enter
                the arena of society and business more confident 
                
                  Speeding up the Machines

                  The Rush and Traffic Congestion of a Great City

                  FIG. 5. THE HIGH TENSION OF MODERN LIFE
                
                
                 of success, with hopes and courage all at top-notch.
                (Fig. 5.) On the other hand, excessively
                and abnormally low blood-pressure produces such a sense of weakness, debility, and
                mental lethargy as to constitute a powerful temptation to resort to some convenient
                and artificial method of toning up the system-- raising the blood-pressure.

              In this chapter we are concerned chiefly with the important fact that fear and
                worry and all their psychic cousins are able actually to raise the blood-pressure to
                that point where real damage results to the health, and to such an extent as to
                create and confirm the demand for the use of certain drugs highly injurious to the
                physical, mental, and moral welfare of the individual and the race. We refer to
                morphine, alcohol, the bromides, and a host of headache powders, quieting remedies,
                and pain relievers. While it is foreign to the purposes of this chapter to consider
                the right and proper methods of controlling high blood-pressure, other than the
                influence of the mental states, these questions have been fully treated in another
                work. In a former chapter, attention was called to the fact that faith and trust
                contributed to normalizing the blood-pressure.
            

            
              WORRY A CAUSE OF HIGH BLOOD-PRESSURE

              There came to the clinic, one rainy morning, an ex-convict who wore a worried
                expression, complained of inability to sleep and loss of appetite, and examination
                revealed a blood-pressure of 190 millimeters. Subsequent inquiry disclosed the fact
                that this man was living in constant dread of being arrested and returned to the
                penitentiary on the ground of "once a criminal always a criminal."

              Physical examination, including the kidneys, blood vessels, and heart, in no way
                accounted for his high blood-pressure. This condition of things continued for over
                two weeks, then on being assured that he would have thirty days immunity from arrest
                if he would faithfully perform the duties assigned him, he admitted that his chief
                trouble was incessant worry and constant anxiety. Within a very few minutes his
                blood-pressure actually began to drop, and within three hours it had fallen 20 mm.,
                and by the following day had reached 155 mm., a total 
                fall of 35 mm. This seems to be a reasonably clear case of high blood-pressure from
                fear and worry. It was largely relieved by setting the mind at rest. The arterial
                tension was lowered by the relief of the mental tension. Three months after these
                observations, several tests showed this man's blood-pressure to register uniformly
                in the neighborhood of 150.
            

            
              SUDDEN EMOTIONAL CHANGES

              A few years ago the author had an opportunity to observe a series of rapid and
                unusual fluctuations in blood-pressure on the part of a nervous and semi-hysterical
                young woman. Pressures taken just before and after the receipt of a bit of bad news,
                exhibited a difference of over 50 mm. We were able to detect a difference of 20 to
                30 mm. during a single observation, as a result of purely emotional disturbances.
                Such a high degree of vaso-motor instability is rather unusual.

              Sudden excitement, burning indignation, intense anger, and keen disappointment all
                serve instantly to alter the blood-pressure. It is not uncommon to observe an
                alteration of pressure varying from 10 to 25 per cent, and so it appears that the
                highly emotional person is constantly altering his blood-pressure, and, as a
                consequence, necessitating more or less of a complete rearrangement of the
                circulatory apparatus, and a readjustment of the whole process of nutrition and
                metabolism.
            

            
              NERVOUS PROSTRATION AND LOW BLOOD-PRESSURE

              Not only will ceasing to worry serve to reduce blood-pressure in cases where the
                high tension is wholly or partially due to psychic causes, but a change in the
                mental state is also sometimes able to raise the blood-pressure in certain cases of
                neurasthenia or so-called nervous prostration. Nervous prostration is one of
                nature's ways of preventing certain high-strung people from actually "blowing up."
                Nature removes the pendulum and allows them to run down, thus preventing the
                snapping of the constitutional mainspring. Neurasthenics complain of being "all run
                down," and that simply means that they were previously "all wound up." Nervous
                prostration usually cures-- it never kills.

              

              We recently had a chronic neurasthenic with blood-pressure running from 85 to 90
                mm. He finally got it into his head that he was going to get well. He went to work
                in earnest at his simple treatments and began to take an interest in the world; he
                actually forgot about his vague sensations and wandering pains, began to eat
                heartily and sleep well, and soon he was rapidly gaining in weight. In the meantime
                his blood-pressure had slowly and gradually climbed up to 120 mm.-- practically
                normal, while his distressing morning headaches almost entirely disappeared.

              Occasionally we meet with cases of abnormally low blood-pressure which are
                difficult to diagnose. There seems to be a constitutional tendency toward low
                tension, just as in other cases we observe a family tendency to high pressure.
            

            
              A CASE OF RELIGIOUS WORRY

              A worried city missionary, troubled with sleeplessness, rapidly losing her
                appetite, also losing in weight, had been treated several weeks with electricity and
                with baths for stomach and nervous troubles. Blood-pressure remained about 165.
                Careful inquiry elicited the fact she had no family trouble, no church trouble, in
                fact, she seemed to be free from everything that would lead up to the mental states
                of fear and worry. Further inquiry, however, disclosed the fact that she worried
                considerably over the subjects of her missionary endeavor. At first she resented our
                efforts to admonish her on this point; but one day she was told the story of the
                simple-minded boy, who insisted on carrying two bushels of chop-feed on his
                shoulders while riding horseback, and on being asked why he did so, replied:
                  "Well, I reckon if the horse can carry me I ought to be willing to carry the
                  feed." She went home and began to think matters over, finally arriving at this
                conclusion: "If Christ's death on the cross can't save sinners, no amount of
                  anxiety or worry on my part can effect their salvation."

              She appeared at the office on the following day, asserting that she had got a new
                brand of religion-- a faith that could free her from useless worry and unnecessary
                anxiety. She affirmed that she had learned the meaning of such Scriptures as,  "Casting all your care upon Him, for He careth for
                you," and "Come unto Me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you
                rest;" and strange to report, the taking of her blood-pressure showed that it had
                fallen to 140, and it subsequently went down to about 135.

              Worry and anxiety always raise the blood-pressure until they result in bringing on
                nervous prostration, and then the unfortunate victim is found to be suffering from a
                depressive reaction-- neurotic low blood-pressure. Disappointment, grief, and
                cankering care, all conspire together, gradually and surely to raise the
                blood-pressure. Likewise anger, moral condemnation, and every cause of restlessness
                and mental dissatisfaction, all serve to increase arterial tension and raise the
                pressure.

              The fact that one worries over a good cause-- the fact that the objects of your
                anxious solicitude are wholly unselfish and altruistic-- in no wise mitigates the
                inevitable consequences of the increased blood-pressure and other indescribable
                nervous complications which so surely follow in the wake of all protracted worry and
                long-sustained anxiety.
            

            
              ALCOHOL AND DRUGS

              Domestic infelicity and family jars all conspire to raise the blood-pressure,
                increase the nervous tension, and, indirectly, make for digestive disturbances and
                nervous breakdown. We commonly hear such statements as "Family trouble drove him to
                drink." In all such cases, in our opinion, the alcohol is taken largely for its
                immediate effect in lowering the blood-pressure and thus temporarily relieving the
                intense and wrought-up nervous state. While the continuous use of alcohol operates
                to raise the blood-pressure by its tendency to harden the arteries, the effect for
                the time being is to lower the pressure and thus relieve the oppressive tension.

              Experience has taught us that high blood-pressure often leads its victims to drink
                and drugs. We well remember the case of a young lawyer who came to the office
                begging for morphine. This man was a periodical drinker; and when we remonstrated
                with him he replied: "Well, doctor, if you don't give me morphine or something
                  else to relieve this spell, it'll  drive me to the
                  saloon for whiskey." In this connection it should be explained that morphine
                does lower the blood-pressure-- a discovery that this lawyer is not alone in having
                made. Indirectly, then, freedom from worry and anxiety proves to be a practical aid
                to temperance, in that faith-- a peaceful frame of mind-- operates to prevent high
                tension, with its accompanying tendency and temptation to resort to
                pressure-lowering drugs such as alcohol and morphine.
            

            
              BLOOD-PRESSURE AND RELIGION

              Religion, as a state of mind, seems to exert a salutary influence upon the
                blood-pressure. In all cases of nervous high tension where the sufferer seems to
                have heartily and sincerely embraced some form of religious belief or moral faith,
                the blood-pressure almost invariably begins to come down. On the other hand, in case
                the acceptance of some sort of religion leads to overscrupulous anxiety and
                overconscientious worry, the blood-pressure will certainly go up. It makes no
                apparent difference what particular brand of religion is embraced, as far as the
                blood-pressure mechanism is concerned, only one condition seems to be requisite, and
                that is that the religion must be accepted so fully and sincerely as absolutely to
                deliver the mind from the torments of doubt and the uncertainties of fear: actually
                to set the mind at rest and fill the thoughts with faith and trust.
            

            
              APOPLEXY AND HEART FAILURE

              The practical conclusion of the blood-pressure matter is simply this: If the
                arterial tension is permitted to go on increasing from month to month and from year
                to year, eventually the danger point will be reached (about 200 mm.), and then it is
                only a question of time when one of two things will happen, either the heart-pump
                will give out the valves give way or the muscle dilate-- or the arterial hose will
                burst at some weak point, usually in the brain, with the result of producing
                apoplexy and its accompanying paralysis. Apoplexy, paralysis, and heart failure are
                tremendously on the increase, and the strenuous living-- the life of anxiety,
                overwork, and worry-is now  generally recognized by
                the medical profession as being in a large measure responsible for the enormous
                fatality of these heart and circulatory disorders.

              Of course I am not unmindful of the fact that society and civilization are the
                gainers in many ways as a result of this "speedy" and "tense" life which so many of
                us lead. For, however unfortunate the results of our modern "high tension" upon the
                individual, they react, in some degree at least, to the general good of society and
                to the promotion of the national welfare. However painful the condition of the
                individual, or complete the failure, or self-caused the misfortune; one may know
                that, in part at least, this failure is a portion of the service which, as an
                individual, he performs for the good of the whole. One cause of his failure is the
                need of the race for setting high ideals, and striving strenuously to attain them.
                He suffers that the race may gain, and his condition itself must be accepted as a
                contribution to the welfare of the race.
            

            
              WORRY AND ARTERIOSCLEROSIS

              Clapp is a strong believer in worry as a cause of hardened arteries, and the author
                has seen many cases which undoubtedly confirm this view. Romberg says:
                  "Neurasthenia is a cause of arteriosclerosis, because of frequent alterations
                  of blood-pressure occasioned by the unstable and excitable nervous state."
                Neurasthenia is also one of the most fruitful causes of intestinal indigestions and
                its consequent autointoxication, even independently of overeating. Autointoxication,
                in its turn, besides directly producing arteriosclerosis, tends to produce more
                neurasthenia by poisoning the nervous system, and a vicious circle is thus
                established. So the "good" work may go on like the operations of a battledore and
                shuttlecock, and the poor victim is on the high road toward future trouble with his
                arteries.

              The fact that sooner or later the arteries feel the wear and tear of life is well
                expressed by Osler in Modern Medicine, as follows: 
                  Among organs the blood vessels alone enjoy no rest. Not only does a ceaseless
                    rush of fluid pass through them at a speed of ten 
                    feet a second, but the walls of the main pipe are subjected to a distending
                    force of 2 1/5 pounds to a square inch 60 to 80 times a minute; 80,000 to
                    100,000 times in the 24 hours. The heart has rest in diastole, but, distended by
                    the charge from the left ventricle, the arteries pass it on, partly by the
                    natural elasticity of their walls, partly by an active contraction of their
                    muscular fibers. Like other organs, they live under two great laws-- use
                    maintains and in a measure sustains structure; overuse leads to degeneration; in
                    time they grow old, in threescore or in fourscore years the limit of their
                    endurance is reached, and they wear out.

              Regarding the effect of worry (and even over-study) on the brain, Clapp says: 
                  Likewise we can easily believe that excessive mental work may lead to arterial
                    degeneration, and here I want to protest against the silly delusion which many
                    good people have that no amount of hard mental work ever hurts anybody. This
                    statement, if questioned, is apt to be so hedged about by limitations, such as
                    providing there is sleep enough and food enough, etc., that its force is
                    practically almost emasculated. School teachers especially resort to this
                    statement, perhaps in order to stimulate their lazy pupils. If any breakdown
                    occurs, the teacher does not like to admit that it is from too much study, but
                    lays all the blame on dances, parties, and social dissipation, which, of course,
                    are not to be disregarded, if they enter to the question. This is not always the
                    case.
            

            
              BRAIN WORK AND HARD ARTERIES

              Now we know that people differ tremendously in their ability to work their brains;
                and that what is overwork for one is child's play for another; and that we all have
                our limitations beyond which we cannot go with safety, no matter how many hygienic
                influences we put around ourselves; so that we must admit that at least some of us,
                and probably most of us, whether we actually do so or not, can injure ourselves by
                an excess of pure and unadulterated brain work, even if we faithfully try otherwise
                not to break nature's laws. From this mental overwork alone comes a certain amount
                of the wear and tear of life, which knocks the elasticity out of our arteries as
                well as out of our steps (if it lasts long enough) and which makes us prematurely
                old. This is true for most of us, and it is no just criticism to instance on the
                other side a few men like Gladstone, of enormous powers of endurance, both mental
                and physical. In fairness to the other side, however, we are forced to admit that
                much of what is  called mental overwork is not so at
                all, but only a moderate or proper amount of work, plus worry or other depressing
                emotions. The old proverb that "worry kills more than hard work" is universally
                admitted to be true, and very often the men that worry thus kills, die with hardened
                arteries. They are often among our most honored and valued citizens, and are cut off
                before their time by more or less intense application to business mixed with the
                natural worry and anxiety which our modern strenuous competition and the desire to
                get rich quickly seem almost to make necessary, especially in neurotics or in
                persons of nervous temperament. Without this terrible worry in most cases they might
                readily stand the work. With the worry they are apt to be exhausted by sleepless
                nights, a great consumer of the bodily energies, by neurasthenia, and by
                interference with the proper function of their nutritive or trophic nerves in
                relation to the tissues of the arterial coats. Their worry also easily induces the
                oncoming of gout, rheumatism, Bright's disease, diabetes, etc., which facilitate the
                advancing arterial degeneration, especially if they have a hereditary weak streak in
                that direction. Such men, in such dilemmas, are strongly tempted to overstimulate
                with alcohol. If they were anxious for any assistance in helping them along the
                unhappy road on which they were already speeding they could not do better than apply
                this agency. In such cases, if they die, it is not really at bottom the worry that
                kills.
            

            
              "AMERICANITIS"

              The general public are waking up to the fact that this inordinate "hustle" and
                "rush" have something to do with our increased tendency to nervousness. The
                following editorial appeared some time since in a Chicago daily paper, under the
                caption "Why Americans Succeed": 
                  It is largely a question of pressure. The nations of Europe, and especially the
                    English, wonder at the success of the American people. If any Englishman wants
                    to know why the American race can beat the English race in the struggle for
                    industrial precedence, let him stand on one of the downtown platforms of the
                    Illinois Central Railroad in Chicago from seven until nine in the morning as the
                    suburban trains come in.
                  Far outside of the station the train appears, puffing and panting, and while it
                    is still going at dangerous speed, men, young and old, are seen leaning far out
                    from every platform.
                  As the train rushes in, the men leap from the cars and a wild rush 
                    
                      Fig 6. The Results of "High Speed" on Man and Machine--
                        Engine Trouble, the Result of "High Speeding" Engine Trouble, the
                        Result of "High Living"
                    
                    
                     follows for the business district. Not a man is
                    walking slowly and deliberately. It is one rush to business; it is one rush all
                    day; it is one rush home again.
                  The gauge on the engine tells the pressure of steam and the work that the
                    engine can do. The gauge on the American human being stands at high pressure all
                    the time. His brain is constantly excited; his machinery is working with a full
                    head of steam.
                

              Tissues are burned up rapidly, and the machine often burns up sooner than it
                should. The man bald and gray in his youth, the man a victim of dyspepsia, of
                nervousness, of narcotics and stimulants, is a distinct American institution. He is
                an engine burned out before his time; but his work has been done, and that great
                locomotive works, the American mother, is forever supplying the demand for new
                engines to be run at dangerously high speed.

              The American succeeds because he is under high pressure always; because he is
                determined to make speed, even at the risk of bursting the boiler and wrecking the
                machine. (Fig. 6.)
            

            
              RESULTS OF HIGH BLOOD-PRESSURE

              
                
                  Arteriosclerosis. High blood-pressure is one of the recognized
                  causes of arteriosclerosis-- degeneration and hardening of the arteries-- and
                  arteriosclerosis is the real cause of old age, or senile degeneration.

                
                  Apoplexy. Since high blood-pressure is one of the causes of
                  hardening of the arteries, it then becomes apparent that it is the indirect cause
                  of apoplexy, for this is merely a rupture of the small arteries of the brain,
                  which are unable to stand the enormous pressure required in order to force the
                  blood through the stiff and shrunken vessels.

                
                  Bright's Disease. This is a condition in which the arteries of
                  the kidney are shrivelling up as the result of poisons and high-pressure. This
                  disease, with its attendant evils of dropsy and heart failure, is also largely
                  attributable to high-pressure influences.

                
                  Heart Failure. It must be apparent that if the blood-pressure is
                  to be constantly increased, in order to nourish the body and overcome the growing
                  resistance of the hardening arteries, the heart-- the great blood pump-- will be
                  called upon to exert increased force; and this it does, by hypertrophy, until by
                  and by the walls are overstretched, the heart becomes permanently  dilated, and when the end comes, it is called "heart
                  failure." Six times more people die in New York from heart failure than from
                  typhoid fever.
              

              Certain mental diseases are also indirectly produced or influenced by high or low
                blood-pressure, such as mania, melancholia, etc., as well as ordinary nervousness,
                sleeplessness, and many common, everyday maladies.

              When the heart and blood vessels are able long to stand the strain, and when the
                individual is predisposed to "nervousness," then takes place the expected "blow up"
                or "break-down," and the blood-pressure quickly tumbles down to normal-- usually
                below normal-- and the patient complains bitterly of feeling "all run down," etc.
                This is the "secondary low pressure," of neurasthenia and will persist until the
                nervous, tone of the entire system is restored.

              Remedial measures adapted to the regulation of blood-pressure will be fully
                considered in later chapters devoted to the treatment of the neurasthenic
                states.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 While twentieth century "strenuousness" undoubtedly contributes
                  something to our modern high tension, it is rather strenuous living and not
                  strenuous working that is responsible for so many nervous "breakdowns."

                 The average blood-pressure of a normal adult ranges from 110 to 130
                  mm. High pressure is associated with headaches, arteriosclerosis, apoplexy, heart
                  failure and Bright's disease; while low blood-pressure usually accompanies
                  neurasthenia.

                 Moderately high blood-pressure invigorates and exhilarates, while
                  abnormally low pressure weakens and debilitates, and constitutes a temptation to
                  resort to artificial "toning up" procedures.

                 Fear, worry, and all their psychic cousins have power to raise
                  blood-pressure, while faith and trustfulness exert an influence towards
                  normalizing the pressure.

                 Certain drugs, such as morphine, alcohol, the bromides, a host of
                  headache powders and other pain relievers, are but temporary and deceptive
                  blood-pressure lowerers.

                 In the case of a worried ex-convict with a blood-pressure of 190,
                  promised immunity from arrest reduced the pressure in twenty-four hours to
                  155.

                 It is not uncommon to observe a blood-pressure fluctuation  of from 25 to 50 mm. in the case of certain highly
                  emotional and semi-hysterical individuals.

                 High blood-pressure due to psychic causes may be almost immediately
                  cured by a cessation of worry; the low pressure of neurasthenia may likewise be
                  helped upward by a change in the mental state.

                 Nervous prostration is Nature's way of preventing certain high strung
                  nervous people from actually "blowing up." Nervous prostration usually cures-- it
                  never kills.

                 The fact that the object of one's worry is highly commendable-- as in
                  the case of missionary worry in no wise detracts from its pernicious influence in
                  elevating blood-pressure.

                 Disappointment, grief, and cankering care, like anger and an accusing
                  conscience, all conspire together gradually and surely to raise the
                  blood-pressure.

                 Domestic infelicity and business troubles unfailingly tend to raise
                  blood-pressure, and their victims are "driven to drink" because of the fact that
                  alcohol temporarily lowers pressure-- in the end it tends to raise the
                  pressure.

                 Religion, when devoutly experienced, seems to exert a salutary
                  influence upon all cases of high blood-pressure due to worry and anxiety.

                 When blood-pressure is allowed to go up to the neighborhood of 200
                  mm. there is grave danger of heart failure on the one hand and apoplexy on the
                  other.

                 We are compelled to recognize that while the individual may be a
                  loser as a result of our modern "tense" and "speedy" modes of life, that society
                  as a whole reaps many benefits there-from.

                 Worry, sorrow, and even excessive mental work are now looked upon as
                  contributing directly to the production of arteriosclerosis.

                 While overstudy is admittedly a cause of premature old age,
                  nevertheless, unhygienic physical practices are also usually found among the real
                  causes.

                 High tension and arterial degeneration as a rule result from
                  overworry, overwork, overeating, and overdrinking.

                 "Americanitis" is a term coined to include all of the mental and
                  physical mal-practices whose combined influence tends to raise the blood-pressure,
                  deplete the vitality, and break down the nervous energies.

                The results of long continued high blood-pressure are headaches,
                  arterio-sclerosis, apoplexy and heart failure. High tension is also associated
                  with Bright's disease and other physical disorders.
              
            
          

          
            
            CHAPTER X NEURASTHENOIDIA, OR
              NEAR-NEURASTHENIA

            IN THE beginning of our study of the neurasthenic states proper, we
              must lay down the principle that all these neurotic conditions rest upon a definite
              hereditary base, and are specifically due to some form of abnormal brain working or
              nervous functionating.

            Brain control may be defined as a faculty which is inherent in men and women who are
              in a normal state of health. When we speak of normal brain control we mean that every
              idea, impression, or sensation is controlled by reason, judgment, and will. It is easy
              to imagine the state of one who lacks this controlling power; his uncontrolled brain
              would without this regulating power, be practically in a state of psychic anarchy, a
              helpless victim and an easy prey to every impulse, emotion, and passing fear; quite
              unable to reason sanely and soberly. Such an individual is doomed to a life of sorrow
              and neurasthenic suffering. Entire lack of brain control is exceptional; what we find
              more frequently among neurasthenic persons is a sort of unstable or insufficient
              control. Three forms of ennui or neurasthenoidia may be recognized, vis., the
              hereditary, the acquired, and the accidental forms.

            The patient will judge and reason in a normal way respecting many things, while at
              the same time he is peculiarly dominated by certain ideas and impulses which he
              himself recognizes as quite absurd or greatly exaggerated, and over which his will has
              little or no power of control; this is the neurasthenoidic state. This same mental
              state carried one step further results in the typical neurasthenic state with all its
              accompanying physical manifestations, bodily symptoms, and psychic tortures.

            

            
              EFFECTS OF INSUFFICIENT BRAIN CONTROL

              The phenomena of instability of control are in the main the same in neurasthenoidia
                as in out-and-out neurasthenia. The sufferer's state of mind and health is
                constantly changing from good to bad, and going from bad to worse, and all this
                takes place without the slightest evident reasons. These changes recur from time to
                time; a frivolous mood may, for example, be succeeded by a marked fit of
                depression.

              Let us now see what are the effects of this insufficient brain or mind control on
                the ideas, emotions, and actions. Even in those cases where the insufficiency of
                control is very slight, a definite and marked discomfort will be caused the patient
                by the feeling or conviction that he is not fully cognizant of all the ideas
                hatching out in or passing through his brain. He will often be troubled and harassed
                by a vague feeling that he is only about one-half awake, that his mind is getting
                away from him-- that he cannot escape from the half-drowsy state of mind which ever
                and anon threatens to creep over him. Helpless-- he is carried by this uncertainty
                out on the sea of fear.

              If this insufficiency is more developed, the symptoms increase proportionately; he
                no longer suffers from a vague feeling of discomfort, but from a sensation of
                painful and distracting confusion, a veritable whirl of disjointed and uncontrolled
                ideas.

              These uncontrolled ideas are usually found to be unconnected and indefinite. They
                may be repeated indefinitely, or may become so fixed in the mind as to possess the
                power to torture the patient quite independent of will control. The chief defects in
                the thinking of these neurasthenoidic patients are exaggeration or deformation of
                their ideas and emotions; also a woeful lack of preciseness and clearness. The
                resultant bodily actions have the same marked defects. They are indeterminate,
                hesitating, and frequently executed, apparently, while in a semi-conscious or dreamy
                state of mind.

              The patient is only vaguely aware of the results of all this insufficient control
                over his ideas, emotions, and actions; he dimly recognizes the consequences of his
                demoralized mental actions without realizing that they constitute the origin of the
                   majority of the most distressing symptoms of his
                unique affliction.
            

            
              ENNUI AND NEURASTHENOIDIA

              Thousands of well-to-do people are suffering from the accumulated results of
                intellectual inactivity and physical idleness. They have become the victims of a
                sort of refined laziness-- a conventional stagnation of mind and a fashionable
                inaction of body.

              One reason many poor people are relatively happier than the rich, is that they
                still have so many things to seek for; and eagerness is one of the most forceful and
                uplifting attributes of human mental action. Possession not infrequently spoils the
                pleasures experienced while pursuing the coveted treasure.

              While much of the neurasthenia of the poor may result from the hereditary
                predisposition plus the stress and strain and worry of poverty; it must be admitted
                that the neurasthenoidia of the rich springs from the same hereditary taint plus the
                ennui of mental indolence and physical idleness.

              I was recently consulted by a woman who, when writing to make the appointment, said
                in her letter that she "was living a life which had become unbearable," and that she
                "must have speedy relief or else go mad." This patient when she arrived was found to
                be in excellent-- almost perfect physical condition, even the blood-pressure was
                120-- normal. The only possible physical complaint she was entitled to make was
                that, possibly, she did not sleep soundly.

              This woman had a devoted husband, two splendid children, a luxurious home-- with
                motors, horses, and servants-- in fact, everything that money could buy, and yet she
                began her history by saying: "To me, life is not worth living. I am thirty-eight
                  years old, and I feel that it is useless to live longer."

              She seemed to have lost all interest in everybody and everything-- not excepting
                her own family. She said religion no longer appealed to her, that reading was
                distasteful, and that her husband had "become a perfect bore." She appealed to me to
                know if she was really going crazy, and if I thought not, then about how long would
                she live and have to endure "this  exquisite torture
                of living in a world where nothing fascinates you, nobody enthrals you, and
                everybody and everything bores you."
            

            
              BREAKING THE SPELL

              This good woman presented a typical case of neurasthenoidia. She lacked many of the
                symptoms of a typical neurasthenia, but she had every earmark of typical ennui--
                neurasthenoidia. If she is not promptly rescued from the mildew of her inaction and
                from the maze of her selfish indolence, she is on the high road to full fledged and
                unmistakable neurasthenia-- genuine and unadulterated nervous invalidism.

              Now, how did I talk to this patient? What did we try to do for her? The very first
                thing I endeavored to do was to disabuse her mind of the thought that she was
                "sick." I fully and carefully explained that ennui and even fully developed
                neurasthenoidia were not real "diseases" in the sense she understood-- that her
                condition was largely the result of neurotic heredity, luxurious environment, faulty
                education, lack of training, and more in particular a loss of the sense of one's
                personal responsibility to the world. Of course, I did not neglect to show how all
                this had come about from her false ideas of happiness and how they were obtained
                from idleness and inaction on the one hand; and a gradual weakening and almost
                complete loss of will power on the other. She strongly resented my statement that
                she had "come to me in quest of some new secret or source of happiness"-- and
                greatly objected, at first, to my diagnosis that "narrow-minded selfishness was at
                the bottom of all her afflictions."

              It was only after a pointed, spirited, and searching appeal that she confessed to
                the sordid motives which had actuated her life from its earliest years, and then,
                after unburdening her soul-- after bringing forth a series of confessions long
                suppressed-- confessions of failure in her duties as a mother, a wife, a neighbor,
                and as a woman, I say that it was not until after this awakening that we were able
                to begin that long and tedious educational process which promises to effect
                deliverance of the soul from its lone and dreary prison house of self.
            

            

            
              LIBERATION OF THE SOUL

              Not all cases of submerged personality and imprisoned soul can be dealt with alike,
                but the following summary of my methods will be found adapted to the average
                case.

              
                 I give careful and conscientious attention to any real, bona fide
                  physical condition which may demand treatment; taking care not to allow the
                  patients to receive any unnecessary attention or treatment which would tend to
                  dignify the thought that they were suffering from some real disease.

                 I try to show them what real happiness is-- and how it is obtained. I
                  point out the unhappiness of selfishness and the happiness of unselfishness. I
                  make plain that to increase one's wants is to decrease one's happiness; while to
                  decrease the wants means to increase the capacity for happiness.

                 The demand is imperative that the patient go to work immediately. "Get
                  a job" is the first curative slogan in the therapeutic battle with ennui. You must
                  get hold of a definite aim in life. You must work and think and plan to this one
                  great end. Then you will not find yourself "bored" if you are left alone with
                  yourself now and then-- when you are momentarily deprived of something to
                  entertain, occupy, or amuse you.

                
                  You must learn to think less about yourself and more about other people-- the
                    world. Begin at once to bestow upon your family and neighbors the great love you
                    have so long lavished and squandered upon your miserable and unhappy self. The
                    more you love yourself-- the more your misery; the more you love others-- the
                    happier you are.
                  What have you ever done to make some one else happy? I do not want to hear
                    about "giving in to my husband," the charity ball, or a check to the Salvation
                    Army. Such gifts-- which cost you little or nothing-- may indeed benefit the
                    recipient, but they do little good to the donor. Go right out in the great wide
                    world and personally and actually do something for some really needy and
                    stricken soul, and you will be thrilled and exhilarated with a new
                    satisfaction-- a new brand of pleasure and happiness-- which all your former and
                    perfunctory "charity" acts never approached.
                

                 Get into the game of life with your husband (if you are  a married woman). In every crisis of his life stand
                  with him shoulder to shoulder on the firing line. This is an experience which
                  develops that domestic patriotism, family loyalty, and that superb comradeship
                  which makes husband and wife one-- and which effectively destroys that silly
                  bugaboo of "boredom" so frequently felt by you when in the presence of, and when
                  so annoyed by the trifling eccentricities of your companion.

                 If love cannot budge you, if affection does not draw you forth and
                  away from yourself, then let duty push you-- literally shove you out-- into the
                  world to begin the activities which shall fulfill the divine destiny ordained for
                  you, while your soul is filled to overflowing with the satisfaction and
                  consciousness of having "done your best"-- "having done your duty." Build a
                  hospital. Get a law passed against child labor. Do something to improve the
                  condition of the present generation, or to increase the prospects for happiness in
                  the next generation. Find a hundred other idle sufferers like yourself and
                  organize a movement which shall contribute to the solution of some world problem.
                  Do something worth while; don't feebly push along some trifling and sentimental
                  pseudo-reform propaganda. Don't simply join an anti-vivisection society or some
                  other useless and harmful movement. Seek out a woman's job or a man's job-- and
                  take hold of it with a determined will.

                 Then, after you have learned how to work, after you are initiated into
                  the joy and satisfaction of productive labor, you may find an entry into the joys
                  of play and the pleasures of well earned recreation. Yes, I know you are about to
                  say that all this advice would have been all right fifteen or twenty years ago,
                  that it is too late to remedy things now. But I also know that it is not too late.
                  I know you can do it now if you will set about it with resolution and
                  perseverance. Breathe upon the smouldering fires of your sleeping ambition and see
                  if the flames will not kindle and burn with such fervor that your dormant soul
                  will be warmed into action and your mind inspired exertion.
              

              The further treatment, physical, mental, and moral, of ennui or neurasthenoidia,
                will more appropriately be presented in  succeeding
                chapters in connection with neurasthenia proper, and will not, therefore, be further
                taken up in this chapter. Neurasthenoidia is merely the vestibule to the fully
                developed nervous prostration, and is given separate attention here because of the
                fact that a large number of sufferers seem never to progress much beyond this phase,
                or else they so long linger in this pre-typical neurasthenic state as to deserve
                specific remedial suggestions.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Brain control is the secret of sound nervous health. Lack of brain
                  control plus hereditary pre-disposition means neurasthenoidia-- psychic
                  anarchy.

                 We recognize three classes of ennui or neurasthenoidia-- the
                  hereditary, the acquired, and the accidental.

                 Lack of brain control in its earlier stages is characterized by mental
                  uneasiness, nervous discomfort, distracting confusion, fixed and disjointed ideas,
                  fleeting memory, and the constantly recurring feeling that one is only about half
                  awake.

                 The chief mental characteristics of neurasthenoidia are exaggeration
                  of the emotions, deformation of ideas, a deranged sense of proportions, together
                  with a woeful lack of preciseness and clearness.

                 The chief bodily symptoms of neurasthenoidia are general physical
                  indisposition, muscular weakness, undue hesitation and halting in the execution of
                  physical movements, resembling one's conduct in a semi-conscious or dreamy
                  state.

                 Neurasthenoidia and ennui are frequently the result of intellectual
                  inactivity, physical idleness, moral indolence, and social laziness-- a general
                  stagnation of mind, body and soul powers.

                 Some pathetic victims of ennui are so bored by everybody and
                  dissatisfied with everything simply because they are wholly self-centered--
                  wickedly selfish.

                 In order to cure such patients it is necessary to point out the acting
                  causes of their difficulty, viz: neurotic heredity, luxurious environment,
                  continuous idleness, faulty education and the loss of the sense of one's personal
                  responsibility to the world.

                 In liberating these victims of fashionable ennui, it is necessary to
                  recognize and properly treat any accompanying physical disease or disorder.

                 The neurasthenoidic must be taught the unhappiness of selfishness and
                  the happiness of unselfishness-- that to increase one's wants is to decrease one's
                  happiness and vice versa.

                

                 It is imperative that these patients go to work-- "get a job." They
                  must acquire a definite and continuous aim in life.

                 Neurasthenoidics must cease to think of themselves and enlist in the
                  thrilling and exhilarating business of making other people happy.

                 If love cannot persuade the victims of ennui to begin action, then
                  let a sense of duty drive them into the "game of life."

                 We have seen many of these victims of inaction speedily cured by
                  enlisting in some local crusade or joining a national movement, such as building a
                  hospital, child labor, votes for women, etc., etc.

                 It is never too late to mend, never too late to breathe upon the
                  smouldering fires of sleeping ambition, and thus to warm and arouse dormant soul
                  powers to creative action.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER XI NEURASTHENIA, OR NERVOUS
              EXHAUSTION

            IN THE last analysis, neurasthenia must be regarded as a state of
              accumulated chronic nervous fatigue. The literal meaning of the term is "nerve
              weakness." And so it would appear that all of us are to some extent more or less
              neurasthenic-- especially at such times as we may chance to be a trifle overworried or
              slightly overworked. It should hardly be looked upon as "up-to-date" to tell a patient
              he was suffering from "nervous weakness"-- in fact it would be apt unduly to alarm
              him, but he takes very kindly and naturally to having his ailment diagnosed as
              "neurasthenia."

            
              NEURASTHENIA DEFINED

              I prefer to confine the use of the term neurasthenia to those states of habitual
                nervous fatigue due to multiple functional causes. The various phobias, obsessions,
                fixed ideas, and other morbid impulses are extra-neurasthenic manifestations, and
                although they may be-- in fact usually are-- accompanied by more or less
                neurasthenia, nevertheless I prefer to look upon such nervous disturbances as
                separate and apart from neurasthenia; and that is just what has been done in this
                work, having already fully considered many of these insistent mental moods in former
                chapters, while a few remain for later treatment.

              From the standpoint of prognosis, many of these morbid nervous states so closely
                related to and so commonly associated with neurasthenia may or may not be as serious
                as the neurasthenia proper-- depending entirely on their severity as well as on the
                strength of the individual's nervous system.

              The general nervousness which is so often associated with various organic diseases
                such as tuberculosis, the infections such as influenza, or with such painful local
                disorders as gastric ulcer  or cystitis, should not be
                looked upon as neurasthenia. If there is a real neurasthenic state present in such
                cases it should certainly be regarded as secondary to the other and pre-existent
                disorder. If, however, after the other disease or disorder is recovered from the
                "nervousness" still persists, then, but not until then, may we recognize this
                neurotic state as one of true neurasthenia.
            

            
              NEURASTHENIA NOT A DISEASE

              It must early be made clear to the reader that neurasthenia is not a disease-- that
                is, not a circumscribed, well defined disease such as spinal sclerosis or epilepsy.
                It is not even a disease in the sense that hysteria might be so considered. It is
                entirely true that many hysteric and even melancholic patients are also in some
                degree neurasthenic; but in the majority of these cases the neurasthenia must be
                looked upon as being more or less superficial, while the major disorder is
                deep-rooted and far more grave.

              We must, then, come to look upon neurasthenia as a functional nervous disorder, not
                dependent on any organic disease and not associated with hysteria or any other
                definite mental disorder. Neurasthenia is always characterized by great nervous
                irritability, disproportionate mental and nervous fatigue, and accompanied by a vast
                assortment of unpleasant sensations and other symptoms in the head and various other
                parts of the body.

              And so we find today that many of the leading neurologists of the world deny that
                neurasthenia is a distinct disease. They look upon neurasthenia as being merely a
                "symptom complex"-- an aggregation of nervous symptoms characterized by the
                extravagant expenditure of nervous energy. This premature dissipation of nerve
                energy may be voluntary-- as in the ambitious pursuit of riches and fame; or
                involuntary as in the battle with disease, disappointment, and inhospitable
                surroundings. And so again we reiterate that neurasthenia is not a disease in the
                sense that tuberculosis and Bright's disease are diseases.

              It is, no doubt, due to this generally accepted idea that neurasthenia is a
                specific disease, that another and erroneous idea  has
                gained general acceptance in the popular mind, viz.: that the one great cause of
                present-day neurasthenia is the strenuous life of the American people. While, as
                noted in a former chapter, the strenuousness of our modern business and industrial,
                life may be, to some extent, responsible for much of our exhausting high tension and
                the resultant neurasthenic collapse, nevertheless, as also previously pointed out,
                we are forced to recognize the fact that numerous other influences are at work as
                causative factors in the production of nervous prostration. The chief of all of
                these contributing causes is an inherited neurotic taint, chronic worry, together
                with a host of minor violations of the laws of mental hygiene and healthful
                living.
            

            
              ARE WE ALL NEURASTHENIC?

              Not infrequently we have a nervous patient ask us if we are not "all more or less
                neurasthenic," and, of course, I am forced to acknowledge that we are "all a bit
                neurasthenic at times." Neurasthenics are all highly impressionable-- unduly
                sensitive; indeed, they are merely exaggerated cases of what would otherwise be
                looked upon as being perfectly normal.

              Professor Speyr of Berne once said: "It is only the neurasthenics who do anything
                in this world." He undoubtedly meant that the indolence and indifference which so
                often passes for healthy nervous equilibrium is a false show of power; while the
                enormous capacity for enthusiastic expression which is so ever-present in the case
                of the near-neurasthenic, would be, if properly controlled, a tremendous power for
                good in the performance of useful work.
            

            
              CLASSIFICATION OF NEURASTHENIA

              Neurasthenia has been variously classified by different writers. One authority
                gives the following:

              
                
                  Essential or hereditary neurasthenia. This form of nervousness
                  usually begins in early youth and steadily increases-- with slight remissions--
                  until it becomes chronic, generally in middle life. (The author is inclined to
                  regard most of these early appearing or hereditary neurasthenias as cases of
                  psychasthenias. See chapter xvii.)

                

                
                  Accidental or acquired neurasthenia. In this form the onset is
                  abrupt. The patient who has previously appeared to be in splendid health, is
                  suddenly and without warning stricken down with nervous prostration. Many of these
                  cases are prostrated over night or else within a comparatively short space of
                  time. This form of neurasthenia does not advance progressively. The most typically
                  marked and acutely painful symptoms make their fullfledged appearance at the very
                  beginning. This is the form of nervous prostration which more frequently strikes
                  one down as a result of some mental shock or physical strain which was suddenly
                  precipitated; or in other and rarer instances may be due to a continuous and
                  intensified period of overwork and over-worry.

                
                  Intermittent neurasthenia. In this type of nervous disorder the
                  onset is also rather sudden but without apparent cause. The condition of the
                  sufferer progresses unfavorably and within a few weeks becomes apparently serious,
                  and may thus continue for some weeks or even months; when suddenly, after the same
                  inexplicable manner that characterized the onset, he feels decidedly improved or
                  even completely cured, arises from his bed and is able almost immediately to
                  resume his ordinary daily duties. This period of improvement and apparent good
                  health lasts, as a rule, for some months or even years, whereupon, a new attack of
                  nervous prostration descends upon, the patient preceded by few or no premonitory
                  symptoms. This is the so-called "periodic 'form of neurasthenia," the attacks
                  occurring every two or three years and, in some cases, where the stress and strain
                  is more severe, coming on as frequently as once or twice a year.
              

              One authority, who lays so much stress on "brain control," seems to regard these
                three forms of neurasthenia as merely indicating three different degrees of cerebral
                control. He says: 
                  These three forms, which are so dissimilar in their causes, their beginnings
                    and their course do not differ materially if they are examined from the point of
                    view of defect of brain control. In the essential form (hereditary) we have to
                    deal with a case of arrested development of this faculty, whereas in the other
                    forms it is a question of the instability of this control; the three forms are
                    in reality  only three degrees of insufficiency.
                    As regards the prognosis, it is natural that the check in development of brain
                    control should render a cure more difficult. It is no longer a question of the
                    instability of this control; the three forms are in reality only three degrees
                    of insufficiency.
                  Instability of the intermittent form should be easy to correct, but here we
                    have to contend with another factor, in that the sufferer only submits with
                    difficulty to strict treatment, as he already knows that he will again feel well
                    without any effort on his part; it is true that this feeling of good health is
                    very artificial, as a relapse is inevitable.
                
            

            
              THE PHYSIOLOGY OF NEURASTHENIA

              The significant thing about neurasthenics is the fact that they suffer inordinately
                from an unusually large number of emotional disturbances. Situations that would not
                be noticed by the average normal person are able greatly to annoy, grieve, or
                frighten the neurasthenic.

              It would seem that the brain centers in the cortex of the cerebrum of neurasthenics
                had become unusually and abnormally sensitised to the recognition of certain
                sensations and ideas, so that these influences, in the place of arousing a normal
                response and reaction, are able to excite and turn loose an outgoing flood of nerve
                currents which sweep over the body-- taking everything by storm-- literally
                demoralizing every function of the entire organism. This oversensitive condition of
                the nervous mechanism is identical with that condition we have elsewhere described
                as a "lowering of the emotional threshold."

              Dubois has compared the almost incurable hereditary nervous invalids to "spiritless
                horses," and so whether we are dealing with the victims of a true neurasthenia or
                with the less rebellious sufferers from intermittent neurasthenia, we shall find
                almost invariably that our cardinal psychic symptoms are pusillanimity,
                discouragement, a tendency to worry, and the absence of self-mastery.
            

            
              THE MECHANISM OF EMOTIONS

              Pershing, in summing up the James-Lange theory of emotions, offers the following
                comment: 
                
                  The significance of this aspect of neurasthenia becomes clear when it is viewed
                    in the light of the James-Lange theory of the emotions. Observation and
                    reflection extending over many years have convinced me that, for the practical
                    neurologist, it is a true theory, although the pure psychologist may be doubtful
                    about some of its implications. According to this theory every emotion consists
                    of three processes whose order is invariable.
                  
                     The occurrence of the exciting perception or idea.

                     An action of the brain, excited by this perception or idea, which
                      sends efferent nerve-currents to the organs throughout the body, causing a
                      change in the action of the organs.

                     The return of sensory nerve-currents from the disturbed organs to
                      the sensory areas of the cortex, causing a change in the sensations and a
                      consequent perception of the bodily disturbance.
                  
                  Take as a simple example the case of a person startled by sudden noise. The
                    first stage is simply the perception of the sound; the second is the jerking of
                    voluntary muscles, the involuntary cry, the sudden catch in the breath, and the
                    jump of the heart; the third is the disagreeable sensations caused by these
                    sudden changes in the body. In such cases the bodily effects and consequent
                    unpleasant sensations are generally greatly in excess of what one would expect
                    from the loudness of the sound. They may sometimes be useful in enabling one to
                    escape from a sudden danger, but are generally quite useless, and their
                    exhausting effect is far greater, the duration of activity being considered,
                    than that of any kind of work whatever. So it is with the various phases of
                    anger, grief and fear in the neurasthenic. The exciting idea is generally not
                    such as one would expect to have a marked effect, but it starts an emotional
                    process whose second stage involves, directly or indirectly, every muscle-fiber
                    and gland in the body, changing motion, respiration, circulation, and secretion,
                    while the third stage includes bad feelings which further alarm and depress.
                  Biologically, this disproportion of effect to apparent cause is explainable by
                    the fact that the emotions are largely identical with the preservative and
                    protective instincts, for which there is a predeveloped inherited mechanism,
                    which normally in case of danger causes prompt and vigorous action toward
                    escape, defense, or attack, without waiting for reason to give its sanction. In
                    modern life this mechanism is seldom useful, while its needless action, if
                    frequently repeated, is always harmful. 'It is this primitive, inherited,
                    powerful reflex mechanism which has become oversensitive and excessively active
                    in neurasthenia.
                
            

            
              

              DIAGNOSTIC DELUSIONS

              As carelessly used by the laity and even by some physicians-- the word
                neurasthenia, like the term rheumatism, has been made to cover a vast realm of
                diagnostic ignorance or indolence. It seems to have become the rule of many persons
                and not a few physicians to diagnose all "tired feelings" as neurasthenia, and all
                "achy feelings" as rheumatism (especially if they are worse on rainy days).

              The real truth is that neither neurasthenia nor rheumatism are bona fide diseases
                but merely symptoms-- sort of barometric indicators-- of the general state of the
                organism; the neurasthenic symptoms indicating the state of nervous strength and
                control, and rheumatism indicating the presence of poisonous toxins derived from
                some foci of infection in the body.

              In every case when the patient's "presenting symptom" is tired feelings it is the
                physician's duty, before making a diagnosis of neurasthenia, thoroughly to overhaul
                the patient, and thus be reasonably certain that he is not overlooking some obscure
                organic disease or other pathological condition which may underlie these nervous
                symptoms, and which is wholly responsible for their manifestation.
            

            
              NEURASTHENIA CONFOUNDED WITH MELANCHOLIA

              It is a serious mistake to diagnose true melancholia as neurasthenia. There is a
                two-fold harm in such a mistaken diagnosis. First, if the melancholic is diagnosed
                neurasthenic, he will not be properly watched, and, as it is a well known fact that
                true melancholics all have more or less suicidal tendencies he may, during an extra
                bad fit of depression, make away with himself. In the second place, great harm is
                done to every neurasthenic who may know of or subsequently hear of, this mistaken
                diagnosis in that it has become a matter of record that Mr. So and So-- diagnosed a
                neurasthenic-- has committed suicide and so the fear-ridden and worry-tortured
                neurasthenes straightway begin to nourish and coddle the new end added fear that
                they also may some time commit suicide. It is a fact that neurasthenics practically
                never commit suicide, but cases of mistaken diagnosis as between melancholia and
                neurasthenia are so common  as to lead large numbers
                of neurasthenic sufferers to live in constant fear and dread of committing
                suicide.
            

            
              NEURASTHENIA AND THE AGED

              We must also be very careful how we diagnose neurasthenia in old people. It is
                hardly likely that individuals who have escaped nervous breakdown throughout the
                changing vicissitudes of early life and their adult careers will be found to succumb
                to any ordinary stress or strain which may overtake them in advanced years. It has
                been my experience that most cases diagnosed neurasthenia in elderly people have
                turned out to be premature arteriosclerosis. In the beginning of a rapid onset of
                arterial degeneration, there are likely to appear many symptoms closely resembling
                those of neurasthenia. Careful and repeated observation of the blood-pressure will
                obviate the danger of such mistaken diagnoses.
            

            
              BRIGHT S DISEASE AND DIABETES

              Likewise, there is great danger of mistaking a slowly developing case of Bright's
                disease for neurasthenia. We have had many cases sent to us with the diagnosis of
                "nervousness"-- especially men from thirty-five to forty-five years of age-- whose
                urine showed on examination both casts and albumen. We should be very careful about
                settling upon a diagnosis of neurasthenia in the cases of middle-aged men who have
                never had nervous prostration, and who gradually begin to develop slight but
                persistent headaches, tired feelings on waking up in the morning-- especially if
                this inordinate fatigue persists until night-- together with more or less stomach
                trouble and occasional tendency to diarrhoea. An examination of the blood-pressure
                and the urine of such supposedly neurasthenic men will almost invariably disclose
                the fact that they have been suffering for years from Bright's disease. It is
                possible for such patients to pass along until within two weeks of death and present
                no more serious symptoms than those ordinarily exhibited by chronic neurasthenic
                sufferers.

              At the very time of this writing there came to the office  a man forty-two years of age, who had suffered almost constantly from
                slight headaches for the past seven years. His case had been diagnosed as one of
                "over work," and he had been advised to take a good long vacation-- spend a few
                weeks in Florida or California. A routine physical examination of this patient
                disclosed absolutely nothing that was wrong-- nothing but what could be reasonably
                ascribed to "nervousness"-- until the blood-pressure was taken which registered 180,
                and then an examination of the urine, which was loaded with casts and albumen, made
                it necessary quickly to change the diagnosis from an innocent and harmless
                neurasthenia to that of nephritis or beginning Bright's disease. Further study of
                this case disclosed the presence of a chronically ulcerated tooth, the removal of
                which led to an immediate improvement in the patient's symptoms.

              Another disease that is mistaken for neurasthenia in its earlier stages is
                diabetes. We find many patients who have undoubtedly been passing sugar in the urine
                for some time, but whose feelings of muscular weariness and general physical
                indisposition have been credited up to a carelessly diagnosed neurasthenia.
            

            
              NEURASTHENIA AND CHRONIC WORRY

              In considering mistakes in diagnosis, attention should also be called to the fact
                that many patients are diagnosed as neurasthenic who are merely suffering from an
                acute attack of "over attention"-- simply an exacerbation of their habitual mental
                state of chronic worry or maybe they have merely focalized all their attention on
                the transitory symptoms of some passing functional ailment of some internal
                organ.

              It is exceedingly unfortunate for the future happiness and welfare of such victims
                of chronic worry and near-neurasthenia to have their nervous ailments dignified with
                a diagnosis of full fledged neurasthenia. I have found that such patients insist on
                having a name by which to call their nervous disorders, and not wishing to label
                them for the rest of their life as neurasthenics, I have been literally forced to
                clinically create a special grouping for such patients and call their milder nervous
                condition by the term previously defined-- neurasthenoidia.
            

            

            
              THE PENALTY OF IGNORANCE

              The intensity of the neurasthenic's sufferings is not always measured by the
                intensity of the sensation he experiences or the pain he is called upon to endure;
                but rather is the keenness of his misery gauged by the intensity of his dread-- the
                acuteness of his fear and the measure of his anxiety-- all of which arise directly
                and wholly from his ignorance, from his lack of understanding regarding the source
                and significance of these constantly recurring sensations and symptoms in various
                parts of his body.

              After the neurasthenic has thus been blown about by the winds of emotion and driven
                before the tempest of misunderstood and misinterpreted feelings for months or
                years-- after having exhausted all the orthodox remedies and methods of treatment--
                it is little wonder that he goes in quest of some new and "royal road to health"
                method of getting well, as Courtney says: 
                  At this point he is almost certain either to yield to the lure of some patent
                    medicine advertisement or take up with a religio-medical cult which offers to
                    lead him unerringly along the road he is so anxious to travel. If he chooses the
                    "mind and soul" course, his vocabulary soon enlarges through taking in such
                    amazing terms as: autosuggestion, psychotherapy, psychotherapeutics, sublimial
                    mind, sub-conscious mind, and others equally polysyllabic. And, at the same
                    time, he is very apt to become deluded with the notion that Mind is the master
                    and that the body is its abject slave.
                
            

            
              BEHAVIOR OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM

              Now, if these nervous sufferers were given an intelligent insight into the
                physiology and anatomy of the nervous system, and if it were made perfectly clear to
                them just what happens when the functions of the human nervous system are disturbed
                and distorted, as in the case of neurasthenia, then the veil of mystery and
                ignorance which ordinarily enshrouds the subject of nervous prostration would be
                finally lifted, the mists would roll away, and this in and of itself would largely
                affect the cure of the larger part of the neurasthenic's sufferings and sorrows.

              

              Concerning the physical properties of nerves and their tendency to suffer in
                varying degrees one writer has said: 
                  The important fact to be borne in mind is that the resistive powers of the
                    different elements which make up the nervous system vary in degree with the
                    nature of the functions these elements are designed to perform. For example, the
                    motor nerves, so called, which have to do with voluntary action, are less
                    susceptible to the influence of vitality-depleting agents than the sensory--
                    upon which we depend for feeling; while the latter are superior, in respect to
                    their resistive powers, to the great sympathetic which, through its many
                    ramifications and connections, is largely concerned in the so-called automatic
                    functions of the body-- such as respiration, circulation, digestion, and so
                    forth. Given this fact, it is easy to understand why, in states of nervous
                    exhaustion, the bulk of the physical symptoms should come from those organs over
                    which the sympathetic holds sway.
                

              The nervous system has truly been termed the master-tissue of the body, and in the
                case of neurasthenia it may be rightly regarded as the tyrant of the body. Its great
                possibilities for good, when the individual loses control over the nerve centers,
                are immediately perverted into possibilities for evil.

              In all cases of neurasthenic nervous derangement there are never to be found any
                demonstrable changes in the nerve cells or structure of the brain, spinal cord, or
                nerve tracts. That which we do find is purely functional. The delicate balance--
                that fine adjustment between mind and matter-- is temporarily deranged or destroyed
                and this results in turning loose a veritable riot of impulses and sensations often
                resulting in such a derangement in normal function as to turn the natural workings
                of the nervous system into a "diabolic caricature of the normal."

              The neurasthenic sufferer is told time and again that there is nothing organically
                wrong with him, he has swallowed prescription after prescription containing nerve
                tonics or nerve sedatives, and it is no wonder that deep seated discouragement
                begins to settle down over his disturbed and distracted mind. It would seem that
                modern medicine has done almost everything imaginable for the neurasthene except the
                one thing  essential to his cure-- methodic training
                and discipline in mind control and self-mastery.
            

            
              SYMPTOMS OF NEURASTHENIA

              In this place we will give but a brief outline of the symptoms of neurasthenia, as
                the varied manifestations of this interesting disorder are fully presented in a
                chapter to follow.

              While it is true that neurasthenia is not a distinct and definite disease entity,
                nevertheless, when reduced to its characteristic symptoms it forms a clinical
                picture quite as definite as that of hysteria, and even more distinct and
                circumscribed than its near and more largely hereditary cousin-- psychasthenia.

              In brief, the neurasthenic state is characterized by widely distributed and
                exceedingly diverse groups of subjective symptoms among which predominate those
                typical sensations of muscular fatigue (real and not imaginary) nervous exhaustion
                and general incapacity for effort in the physical, mental and moral domains.

              While the neurasthenic presents a host of minor and ever-changing complaints, his
                chief and constant overshadowing difficulty consists in his peculiar mental state of
                psychic depression, hypochondriac pre-occupations, and more or less of a melancholic
                disposition.

              Chief among the minor symptoms of which the patient complains will be found a
                series of functional disturbances and disorders embracing headache, backache,
                insomnia, dyspepsia and constipation, not to mention a host of sensory troubles and
                annoying symptoms due to functional disturbances in the various organs of special
                sense.
            

            
              FIVE SORTS OF NEURASTHENIA

              While there may be some advantage in the classification of neurasthenias noted in
                the early part of this chapter, nevertheless, I prefer to classify these nervous
                states according to the clinical grouping and predominance of the symptoms. This
                seems to me the wholly proper thing to do, inasmuch as we are compelled to regard
                neurasthenia as a clinical disorder and not as a distinct disease. In harmony with
                this view, therefore, we  may conveniently designate
                five clinical forms of neurasthenia as follows:

              
                 Cerebral neurasthenia.
                 Spinal neurasthenia.
                 Gastric neurasthenia.
                 Sexual neurasthenia.
                 Traumatic neurasthenia.
              

              The further discussion of these special forms will be reserved for another chapter.
                (Chapter xvi.)
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Neurasthenia must be regarded as a state of accumulated chronic
                  nervous fatigue due to multiple functional causes. It is not a disease in the
                  sense that tuberculosis is a disease.

                 The various chronic worries, phobias, obsessions, fixed ideas and
                  other morbid impulses should not be confused and confounded with
                  neurasthenia.

                 The general nervousness accompanying organic diseases and associated
                  with local painful disorders, should not prematurely be diagnosed
                  neurasthenia.

                 Neurasthenia is a functional nervous disorder, not dependent on any
                  organic disease and not associated with any definite nervous disorder or known
                  mental disease.

                 Neurasthenia is merely a "symptom complex," characterized by the
                  extravagant expenditure of mental energy and its resultant nervous irritability,
                  inordinate fatigue, and a host of other unpleasant nervous symptoms and physical
                  sensations.

                 Modern "strenuousness" and nervous "high tension" are not the sole
                  causes of neurasthenia. Other and equally important factors are an inherited
                  neurotic taint, chronic worry, together with a host of violations of the laws of
                  mental and physical hygiene.

                 We are all a bit neurasthenic at times; that is, we are prone to
                  overexaggeration of symptoms, overrecognition of sensations, and overestimation of
                  situations.

                 On the other hand, intellectual ennui, physical indolence and social
                  inertia must not be falsely mistaken for healthy nervous equilibrium and exemplary
                  self-control.

                 Some authorities classify neurasthenia into three forms: (1) essential
                  or hereditary, (2) accidental, or acquired, and (3) intermittent.

                 The hereditary form is characterized by appearance in the early years
                  of life. The acquired form by abrupt onset later  on
                  in life. The intermittent form by unexpected appearances and frequent return
                  attacks.

                 Some authorities contend that these three forms of neurasthenia
                  merely typify three different degrees of brain control-- or lack of
                  control.

                 Common everyday sensations and ordinary emotional disturbances which
                  are passed unnoticed by a normal individual, in the neurasthenic are able, owing
                  to a lowering of the emotional threshold, to throw the entire organism into a
                  functional panic.

                 This tendency on the part of the neurasthenic to allow trifling
                  causes to produce such disproportionate reflex effects is but a reversion to that
                  reflex barbaric mechanism designed for self-protection in the face of sudden and
                  unexpected danger.

                 It is this primitive, inherited and powerful biological reflex
                  mechanism which has become so highly oversensitive and excessively active in
                  neurasthenia.

                 It is a grave error in neuralogical diagnosis to classify all "tired
                  feelings" as neurasthenia. A similar blunder is made in calling all "achy
                  feelings" rheumatism.

                 A patient's "tired feelings" should never be diagnosed neurasthenia
                  until a thoroughgoing examination has excluded every possible physical cause for
                  such nervous exhaustion.

                 It is unpardonable to confound neurasthenia with true melancholia.
                  Such mistakes cause neurasthenics unnecessarily to fear suicide and other things
                  common to melancholia, but not characteristic of the neurasthene.

                 The majority of cases of socalled neurasthenia in old people turn out
                  to be the early symptoms of arterio-sclerosis.

                 Bright's disease and diabetes in their earlier stages are frequently
                  mistakenly diagnosed neurasthenia.

                 Headaches, tired feelings persisting all day and into the evening,
                  high blood-pressure and an occasional diarrhoea all point to probable kidney
                  trouble. Examine the urine before diagnosing as neurasthenia.

                 On the other hand, it is a serious blunder to diagnose acute attacks
                  of overworry or overconcentration of the mind on some bodily function as a bona
                  fide case of neurasthenia.

                 The intensity of a neurasthenic's miseries are determined not by the
                  intensity of his sufferings, but rather by the keenness of his dread and the
                  acuteness of his anxiety and fears.

                 After supposedly exhausting the orthodox remedies and methods, the
                  neurasthenic goes in quest of some "royal road to health"-- patent medicines,
                  quack doctors or one of the numerous religio-medical cults of the day.

                 The first step in the cure of neurasthenics is to lift the  veil of mystery and ignorance which enshrouds the
                  subject of nervous prostration-- teach them the physiological facts concerning the
                  functions and control of the nervous system.

                 The neurasthenic must recognize that the larger part of his
                  distressing symptoms arise in those organs presided over by the sympathetic
                  nervous system.

                 The tone of the sympathetic system can be improved to keep pace with
                  the rising tone of the cerebro-spinal system. In this way increased voluntary
                  control reflexly strengthens the involuntary sympathetic mechanism.

                 Neurasthenia is merely a temporary disturbance in the delicate
                  balance and fine adjustment between mind and matter. There can be found no
                  demonstrable changes in the nerve structures.

                 And so the neurasthenic is assured of his organic soundness, jollied
                  up, drugged, and in many other ways treated all to the neglect of acquiring the
                  one thing essential-- self-mastery.

                 The chief symptoms of neurasthenia are sensations of fatigue, nervous
                  weakness, and general incapacity for physical, mental and moral effort.

                 The leading local complaints are headache, backache, insomnia,
                  digestive difficulties, and functional disturbances of the organs of special
                  sense.
                 Clinically considered there are five forms of neurasthenia, viz.:
                  cerebral, spinal, gastric, sexual, and traumatic.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER XII THE CAUSES OF NEURASTHENIA

            THE causes of our modern high tension and neurasthenic tendencies
              are indeed manifold. They include many mental, physical, social, toxic, and other
              "habit" causes, in addition to our proverbial "strenuousness."

            
              1. HEREDITARY PREDISPOSITION

              As noted in a former chapter, heredity plays an important r1e in these various
                nervous disorders. I do not look upon neurasthenia as an inherited disease, I do not
                even look upon it as a distinct disease. I do recognize that the nervous tendency to
                "break down" and "blow up" under certain provocation and pressure, is a truly
                inherited predisposition. But I regard the neurasthenic state or disorder as an
                acquisition, not as an inheritance. On the other hand, and in contrast with this
                position. I look upon psychasthenia as an inheritance, not an acquisition.

              The fact that neurasthenia is not inherited-- as such-- explains why it so seldom
                manifests itself until maturity-- in adult life, while psychasthenia almost
                invariably shows signs of activity even before the period of adolescence. We have
                spoken of hereditary and acquired neurasthenia. Nowadays, the tendency is to
                classify all the so-called inherited neurasthenia as psychasthenia. And so, when the
                nervous stress passes beyond the limit of the normal or average endurance and there
                results a disorder or disease, while many causes may be found, usually there is a
                traceable heredity taint, or other temperamental basis, in addition to a history of
                long continued stress or unhygienic mental life, sometimes resulting from some
                unfortunate early experience, a wrong ideal, or an abnormal emotion; and, finally,
                some culminating circumstance which  appears as the
                determining shock, the last straw that breaks the camel's back, and which is all too
                likely to be mistaken for the actual cause of the nervous disorder.

              This element of heredity as a factor in the causation of the neurasthenic state is
                of great importance when it comes to the prognosis. Regarding this point, Dubois
                says: 
                  Often, alas, one has to withdraw from the favorable prognosis that one has made
                    as the result of a temporary therapeutic success, for some years afterwards one
                    finds the subject with fully developed psychasthenia, or affected, as the result
                    of an emotion, with mental confusion or melancholia. In short, forgetting a
                    little too readily the native predisposition which was postulated to explain how
                    these subjects succumb to commonplace causes, a sort of synonymity is created
                    between the terms true neurasthenia and acquired neurasthenia, while the new
                    appellation psychasthenia has to designate the hereditary or constitutional
                    neurasthenia of Charot and Giles de la Tourette.
                
            

            
              2. PHYSICAL CAUSES

              There is little doubt in the author's mind that physical habits and practices have
                much to do with developing neurasthenia in certain individuals. Unhygienic living,
                overeating, the sedentary life, improper and inadequate ventilation of living,
                working, and sleeping rooms-- not to mention the lash of inordinate ambition which
                drives thrifty men and women to overwork of both mind and body-- all figure as
                causes in the production of neurasthenia.

              It is my observation that men and women who work with their hands are almost as
                highly subject to these nervous disorders as are the more distinctive mental
                workers-- professional men and women. Overexertion, physical as well as mental,
                explains why we find neurasthenia almost as prevalent in the country as in the
                cities. This also probably accounts for the fact that men are more prone to develop
                the disease than women; although women, when they are attacked, certainly break down
                more completely and abjectly.

              Perhaps under the physical head should also be included those cases of nervous
                prostration due to "traumatism," which will  be more
                fully dealt with in a subsequent chapter-- those susceptible individuals who pass
                through some unusual physical or emotional experience, such as train wreck, and who,
                for years afterwards, are confined to their beds with traumatic neurasthenia,
                "railway spine," etc.

              Some authorities have attached great importance to eye-strain and overworking of
                the eyes as factors in the production of neurasthenia. There is no doubt that this
                is a fact in certain individuals; and while I always include a careful expert
                scrutiny of the eyes in every routine examination of a neurasthenic, I do not find
                disturbances of vision to play such an important rle as I was once led to
                believe.

              Many cases of neurasthenia are either originated or provoked by disease or
                disturbance in some important internal organ or organs of the body. I am coming more
                and more to recognize that a painstaking and conscientious physical examination of
                the average neurasthenic patient seldom fails to reveal accompanying physical
                disorders or derangements in one or more of the vital functions of the body. It may
                be argued by some that these physical disturbances are wholly the result of the
                preexistent neurasthenic state, and to which I would reply-- even if this be true,
                which I do not allow in all cases, that certain functional disturbances which at
                first may be wholly due to psychic disorder-- to disordered neurasthenic impulses--
                in time come to be so thoroughly and habitually established in the system that they
                must be looked upon as actual physical functional disorders-- and be appropriately
                treated and overcome by proper physical remedial measures. Mental therapeutics alone
                are inadequate to clear up the situation when it has reached this well-established
                and chronic state.
            

            
              3. MENTAL FACTORS

              The chief and characteristic mental factor in neurasthenia is the ever present
                tendency to make mountains out of mole hills-- the inordinate magnification of
                trifles-- the insistent and persistent habit of putting a pathological
                interpretation on a host of common everyday life experiences which are otherwise
                wholly normal, natural, and commonplace.

              

              Uncontrolled or unduly suppressed emotions frequently play an important part in the
                production of a disordered brain control-- a panicky mental state which
                characterizes typical neurasthenia.

              Again, we observe the neurasthenic state mildly presenting itself in the cases of
                predisposed individuals who allow their impulses and feelings habitually to work at
                cross purposes with their environment. This sort of daily discontent constitutes a
                severe strain on the integrity of the nervous mechanism, and sooner or later
                symptoms of demoralization begin to manifest themselves. Inordinate and impossible
                ambitions should be placed in the same neurasthenic-breeding category.

              Among the secondary mental causes, the most important is either a mental shock
                which abruptly and temporarily stops the brain control, or some other influence
                which in the long run wears out the mental powers; such as sorrow, prolonged grief,
                excessive worry, or long continued overwork.

              In proof of the mental origin of many cases of neurasthenia, Dubois cites the
                following arguments: 
                  a. The fact that certain psychopathies arise suddenly and under the influence
                    of emotional disturbances.
                  b. Psychopathic contagion observed not only in hysteria but also in
                    neurasthenia and even melancholia. The fact that a husband and wife with
                    different hereditary tendencies, and educated, often, on different lines, may
                    conceive the same false ideas, and together fall into neurasthenia or delusions
                    of persecution, indicates psychic contagion by imitation.
                  c. The improvement or cure of psychopathies by means of purely psychic
                    treatment.
                
            

            
              4. SOCIOLOGICAL AND OCCUPATIONAL, CAUSES

              We do not undertake to deny that the strenuous life of modern business (dealt with
                in chapter IXX), has its influence in undermining the nerves; neither do we rule out
                the social rivalry with its worry and petty harassments.

              Even occupational stress and strain may play a part-- but we believe only a minor
                one-- in the sum total of influences which are conspiring together to increase the
                prevalence of  nervous disorders; but over and above
                all of these minor causes, I am forced to recognize the fact that heredity is
                usually the predisposing cause, acting together with bad habits of mental and
                physical hygiene as the exciting causes.

              Overwork may be an occasional exciting cause of nervous breakdown-- but I have
                usually found the real cause to be over-worry plus one or more bad physical
                practices-- including overeating.

              In the case of the average neurasthenic who contends that overwork broke him down,
                an investigation will usually disclose that his bad physical practices coupled with
                bad thinking habits worked so to undermine and deplete both his physical and nervous
                energy, that it required but the normal amount of daily work to prostrate him. It is
                not, as a rule, a question of over-work, but rather one of under-strength-- all the
                result of mental and physical transgression, and that is just the reason why sending
                such neurasthenics to the mountains or on globe-trotting excursions does little or
                no good. They carry along their worries and bad physical habits, and consequently
                return in a short while no better-- and more discouraged than ever. In order to get
                well and stay well, the average neurasthenic must do something more than quit work
                and run away from noise, telephones, automobiles and express trains.

              Neurasthenia is not confined to business and professional men whose work is so
                complex and taxing, but is increasingly appearing among the middle and working
                classes, whose hygienic habits are not the best, and whose poverty necessitates
                considerable financial worry.

              Geographically, neurasthenia is nation-wide-- world-wide-- in its distribution; but
                it is erroneously supposed to predominate in the great centers of population. It is
                not true that the cities are the sole generators of neurasthenia: the rural
                communities and the farm produce very nearly as many in proportion to population. As
                regards the United States, neurasthenia is probably more common in the Middle West
                and the Northwest than in the central, southern, or eastern states. There is an
                extra large amount of this nervous disorder in the elevated Rocky Mountain regions,
                Its prevalence in this region and that of the 
                Northwest is probably accounted for by the extra strain upon otherwise predisposed
                nerves, by the dry climate, stimulating altitudes, strong winds, and excessive
                sunshine.
            

            
              5. CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE

              Regarding the city as a factor in neurasthenia as contrasted with the country, Dr.
                Kellogg says: 
                  We might cite the fact, too, that neurasthenia is more prevalent in the cities
                    than in the rural districts. The comparison between the agriculturist and the
                    laboring man in the city speaks volumes for the effects of wrong methods of
                    living upon the growth of nerve disorders. Neither class is vitally affected, so
                    far as the nature of the daily work is concerned, by the strenuousness of
                    present day life. "The plowman homeward plods his weary way" today much as the
                    plowman of all times; he has labor-saving implements that are new, but he also
                    attempts a larger program, so that his way will ever remain a weary one, though
                    healthy withal. The city worker, too, has labor-saving machinery to aid him, an
                    assistance which, as in the case of the farmer, only allows him to accomplish
                    more without increasing the amount of fatigue he feels.
                  But note how differently the two classes react to the stress of toil. The
                    farmer works out of doors ten to fourteen hours a day. He partakes for the
                    greater part of clean, wholesome food direct from the soil. A comfortable living
                    is assured him, so that he is untroubled by harrowing financial worries. Living
                    a retired and quiet life, his mind is untroubled by those industrial problems
                    which stir the emotions and arouse the passions of the workers of the great
                    cities. His life in every sense of the word is the simple life, and yields him,
                    not, only muscles of steel, but also a nervous system that is comparatively
                    immune to the symptoms that constitute neurasthenia.
                  The city worker leads a life that is diametrically opposed to that just
                    described. As often as not he houses himself in a congested parts of the city,
                    where the atmosphere is fouled by the smoke of factories, and in an ancient,
                    ill-ventilated tenement that is overcrowded with every sort and condition of men
                    and women, some whole, but most of them in some stage of some vile disease. The
                    food he buys is seldom undefiled by adulterants that rob the body of needed
                    nourishment, while it also introduces into the system poisonous substances that
                    cripple muscle and nerve tissue and that pave the way for the worst form of
                    neurasthenia. As in the case of the farmer, the hours  of the city workmen are likely to be long, but instead of twelve
                    hours a day in the out-of-doors, he lives ten hours in a hot overpopulated room
                    that reeks with the poisonous exhalations of the workmen. This type of worker,
                    too, seldom knows what it means to be free from the bread-and-butter problem,
                    his worries beginning when as a lad he first enters the factory. Here we have
                    conditions that are ideal for the development of symptoms which are a never
                    failing sign of neurasthenia.
                
            

            
              6. PHYSICAL DISEASES

              As an important cause of neurasthenia-- far more common than is generally
                recognized, there should be mentioned visceral disorders, disturbances,
                and,dislocations in one or more of the vital organs of the body. Nose and throat
                diseases are also common causes. Adenoids, for instance, are a more frequent cause
                than eye troubles of nervousness among children. One of the first things which a
                school medical inspector or school nurse aims to do is to seek out cases of adenoids
                and have them removed. The result is always beneficial, the child losing its
                nervousness and becoming normal in almost every respect.

              What some physicians call "splanchnic neurasthenia," a condition in which the
                stomach and intestines are prolapsed and displaced, the displacement bringing into
                the abdominal viscera an abnormally large amount of blood and depriving the spinal
                cord and brain of their proper share, is responsible for a large amount of
                "nervousness." Anything which interferes with the proper functioning of the
                intestinal tract-- the stomach and bowels-- is a direct source of nervousness, as is
                also any disturbance of the natural functions of the liver or kidneys.

              Serious mental disturbances are often observed following typhoid fever, in
                consequence of an invasion of the brain by the typhoid bacteria; and the same is the
                case after such germ diseases as influenza, malaria, and yellow fever; but the worst
                of all infections for the central nervous system is syphilis. This can lead at once
                to all sorts of new formations, inflammations, destructions of tissue, and
                shrinkings in the brain, spinal cord, ad nerves, and which in their turn, give
                occasion for such grave nervous disturbances as pains, paralyses, cramps,
                convulsions, and even the dreaded locomotor ataxia.

              

              It is a peculiar fact that in the races who abstain from alcohol (the Mohammedans),
                syphilis almost never leads to brain paralysis, while, on the other hand, it does so
                all the more frequently when alcoholism is also present.

              Certain nervous disturbances are also caused by general metabolic diseases, such as
                gout and certain glandular diseases, diabetes, myxoedema, etc.
            

            
              7. POISONS AS A FACTOR

              We have discussed the hereditary, physical, mental, social, occupational, and
                disease causes of nervousness, and now, last but by no means least, we must consider
                the role of chronic poisoning in the production of neurasthenia. We may classify the
                poisons concerned at this time under three heads, as follows: 
                   Poisons normally formed within the body. (Metabolic poisons.)

                   Poisons pathologically formed within the body. (Disease
                    toxins.)

                   Poisons taken into the body from the outside.
                

              It has been my experience that practically every case of acquired neurasthenia--
                especially where the hereditary taint is not marked (I do not include
                psychasthenia)-- presents on careful examination more or less involvement with one
                or more of these three groups of chronic systemic poisoning. It often proves a
                source of great encouragement to the nervous sufferer to find in these forms of
                self-poisoning and autointoxication certain definite sources of their nervous
                irritation, and they take hold with new courage to cooperate with the physician in
                an earnest effort to remove all causes of their trouble-- physical as well as
                mental. Let us now consider these poison sources of mischief to the nervous system
                in the order already noted.

              The normal, healthy human body is constantly at work elaborating certain poisons as
                a part of the daily nutritional operation of the organism: In the case of normal
                individuals these poisons are either burned up by the liver or eliminated by the
                kidneys and that is the end of it; but it is not so with the man or woman with
                easily irritated nerves: these unfortunate sufferers find themselves affected by
                oversensitiveness to these  natural and ordinary
                internal situations, just as they are over-stimulated and excited by their normal
                outside surroundings.
            

            
              METABOLIC POISONS

              The origin of these nutritional, acid-poisons within the body may be traced back to
                the wastes which result from muscular work and to the poisonous wastes resulting
                from the putrefaction of food stuffs in the intestinal tract, chiefly the large
                bowel or colon. These decay-poisons from the bowel when absorbed into the
                circulation, are carried to all parts of the body and exert a peculiarly paralyzing
                influence on both muscles and nerves. These evils of autointoxication are greatly
                aggravated when the diet is heavy in protein; and protein is the chief constituent
                of meat, cheese, eggs, dried peas and beans, and some of the nuts.

              A very frequent cause of autointoxication is chronic constipation. This condition
                is one of the greatest enemies of nerve efficiency, a fact seen in the remarkable
                readiness with which many nervous symptoms disappear when constipation is removed.
                Otherwise, the food residues and wastes accumulate, converting the colon into a sort
                of cesspool, from which the most noisome and poisonous substances filter through
                into the circulation to attack the entire nervous system.

              Muscular and mental work are performed at the expense of nerves and muscle tissues.
                In all exertion there are produced in the body poisonous substances known as
                "fatigue toxins." Under normal circumstances these toxins are eliminated from the
                body by way of the liver, kidneys, lungs, and perspiration. When work, however,
                reaches the point of fatigue, these poisons are increased beyond the power of
                overworked eliminative organs to take care of, with the result that they flood the
                body, attacking the nerves and forming a powerful factor in the production of
                neurasthenia. Note that it is not the work of itself that is responsible for the
                nervousness, for fatigue products themselves are a normal product of body activity,
                but that it is the inability of the eliminative organs to carry out their normal
                function of ridding the system of its normal poisons. It is possible, it is true, to
                carry exertion to the point of extreme fatigue, in which case the poisons are
                increased to a dangerous degree-- very many cases of neurasthenia will be found due
                to this overfatigue--  but very often in cases
                ascribed to extreme fatigue, the real trouble lies in the overworked and crippled
                condition of the organs of poison elimination.
            

            
              EFFECT OF FATIGUE POISONS

              Apply these considerations to a typical case of neurasthenia and it is readily
                explained. Work may have something to do with it, for all work involves fatigue, and
                it is not to be denied that normal fatigue due to normal work tends to lower the
                threshold of the undesirable emotions and to inhibit the desirable ones. The effect
                of work alone is normally slight, however, and is quickly recovered from; a night's,
                or at most a few days' rest would insure recovery if the work were the only
                unfavorable factor; but along with the work are occasions for vexation, anxiety and
                alarm. The neurasthenic through heredity, disease or traumatism has a brain which
                reacts excessively to these occasions; to the moderate fatigue of useful labor is
                added the great fatigue of useless emotion; the neurons whose efferent impulses
                disturb the body become more sensitive, lowering the threshold still further; thus
                the daily number of emotional disturbances increases. The sensory centers of the
                cortex in which the emotion ends become more and more fatigued, so the resultant
                sensations become more and more unpleasant. This change in sensations, especially in
                those of the head, causes a feeling of changed personality which is strongly
                suggestive of mental disease, and thus the earlier fears of heart-disease, apoplexy,
                or what not, become relatively unimportant before the terrible fear of insanity.

              And so we come to recognize that any physical cause whatever, which overexcites,
                exhausts, or intoxicates the nervous system creates a condition of mental stress and
                disorder. The highly sensitized body of civilized man is susceptible to many
                physical disturbances that are as yet little understood. Many toxins are produced in
                the body which directly affect the nervous system. The products of muscle fatigue,
                of certain foods, of some purely physiological processes in the body are known to
                affect the mental life, and there are still other changes, as yet obscure, which may
                create mental or nervous conditions,  apparently
                independently of wrong or unhygienic mental activity of any kind. In general,
                whatever causes production, in excess, of poisons in the body, or prevents proper
                elimination of them, may enter into the nervous life.
            

            
              THE TOXINS OF INFECTION

              It is a common bit of neurasthenic history that the disorder made its first
                appearance following an attack of some infectious disease-- typhoid fever,
                rheumatism, tonsilitis, influenza, etc. These microbic poisons circulate in the
                blood stream and provoke mischief in the same identical manner that we have just
                noted in our study of metabolic poisons and those produced by disordered digestion
                and mal-assimilation.
            

            
              POISONS TAKEN INTO THE BODY

              The physician who is thrown in contact with a large number of nervous cases cannot
                help but recognize that certain drugs exert a peculiarly bad influence upon the
                average neurasthenic. Whatever may be said against the habitual use of tobacco by
                the man of strong nerves, holds doubly-- yes even trebly-- true the
                neurasthenic.

              Particularly serious is the effect of tobacco upon the neurasthenic nervous system,
                an effect which manifests itself in a variety of ways. For the time being, tobacco
                sometimes appears to give tone and steadiness to the nerves, but this effect is
                deceptive and the ultimate effect is to increase the very difficulty which it had
                the appearance of benefiting. The best proof, perhaps, of the injurious nature of
                the drug is the fact that in scores of cases which we have observed, the nervous
                symptoms have largely or entirely disappeared when the patient cut down or wholly
                discontinued the use of tobacco.

              It must be borne in mind that one ordinarily feels languid, depressed, and good for
                nothing, when the blood-pressure is too los; whereas one usually feels exhilarated
                and tiptop when the pressure is high. Therefore, there is a constant tendency for
                neurasthenically inclined persons to make use of those drugs which increase the
                blood-pressure, or in cases of suffering from  low
                pressure, to resort to the use of high-pressure procedures to counteract the
                unpleasant low-pressure effects.
            

            
              TOBACCO

              Tobacco stands foremost among the common causes of increased blood-pressure. It is
                well known that when a young man takes his first smoke, he is pale in the face; the
                small blood-vessels of the skin are strongly contracted; the blood is forced upon
                the internal organs. The blood-pressure if taken at such a time, is found to be
                enormously raised; and so throughout life the effect of tobacco-using, due to the
                specific action of the nicotine and other poisons, is that of directly raising the
                blood-pressure. (A single cigar raises blood-pressure for over one hour.) The use of
                tobacco, then, may be regarded as one of the prominent causes of increased
                blood-pressure in the present generation, and of many of the serious dangers and
                consequences following, namely: deranged nervous system, hardened arteries, kidney
                trouble, heart failure, and apoplexy. The long continued and excessive use of
                tobacco sometimes results in bringing about a reaction-- an abnormal lowering of the
                blood-pressure.

              The enormous increase in the use of tobacco is astounding. Last year the American
                youth consumed enough cigarettes, if placed end to end, to go around the world six
                times, and then from New York to San Francisco and back again. In other words, they
                smoked in the neighborhood of six million manufactured cigarettes in one year, (this
                does not include cigarettes made by the smokers themselves), to say nothing about
                the enormous quantities of smoking tobacco and chewing tobacco used by the same
                people. The cigars used last year if laid end to end, would reach almost to the
                moon-- a distance of two hundred and forty thousand miles. There were used last year
                in the United States, twenty million pounds of snuff, although this habit is
                supposed to be obsolete.

              American men and boys, therefore, last year smoked considerably over fifteen
                thousand million cigars and cigarettes. These, if laid end to end, would reach
                almost from our earth to the moon and back again.
            

            

            
              ALCOHOL

              Of all the habits which have blighted the world the use of alcohol has had perhaps
                the most sinister results. Great empires have fallen as the result of degeneracy due
                in a great part to this drug; primitive peoples, such as the North American Indians,
                are wasting away as the result of the drink habit acquired from the white race. The
                evils attendant upon the use of opium, cocaine, morphine, absinthe, and other
                narcotics are not a particle less appalling than those due to the drugs we have
                already named. Their use, however, is less wide-spread; the campaign of education
                which has been brought to bear upon them has rendered them less popular than tobacco
                and alcohol, for owing to some inexplicable foible in the popular mind the "dope
                fiend" has come to be regarded with more or less repugnance, whereas the tobacco or
                alcohol fiend is not only tolerated, but often exalted to a position bordering upon
                heroism. Alcohol is one of the ancestors of neurasthenia.
            

            
              NARCOTIC BEVERAGES

              Tea and coffee come next in the list of popularly used poisons which contribute to
                wide-spread nervousness. It is a well known fact that whatever excites vital action
                above the normal standard, without supplying an extra amount of force to support
                this extra expenditure, invariably produces a necessary and corresponding depression
                of vital action below the normal standard, or what is known as a "reaction." That
                this is one of the secondary results of the excessive use of strong tea is well
                known.

              The continued alternation of excitement and reaction must certainly result in
                injury to the nervous system, increasing the liability to nervous disorders of a
                functional nature, such as neuralgia, hysteria, etc.

              Doctor Bock, of Leipsic, once remarked: 
                  The nervousness and peevishness of our times are chiefly attributable to tea
                    and coffee. The digestive organs of confirmed coffee drinkers are in a state of
                    chronic derangement which reacts on the brain, producing fretful and lachrymose
                    moods. Fine ladies addicted to the use of strong coffee have a characteristic
                    temper  which I might describe as a mania for
                    acting the persecuted saint.
                

              Dr. B. W. Richardson, the noted English physician, says: 
                  Among the women who take tea at every meal, this extremely nervous,
                    semi-hysterical condition from the action of the tea is all but universal. In
                    London and other fashionable centers in which the custom of tea drinking in the
                    afternoon has been revived, these same symptoms have been developed in the
                    richer classes of society, who, unfortunately, too often seek to counteract the
                    mischief by resorting to alcoholic stimulants. Thus one evil breeds another that
                    is worse.
                

              There is used in the United States several hundred million pounds of tea and coffee
                a year-- that is-- over ten pounds of tea and coffee a year for every man, woman and
                child in the country. Tea and coffee are freely used even by young children with
                tender nervous systems. We have the "tea-drinker's disorder," which is a disease
                recognized by the medical profession; and tea-topers are found among both men and
                women. This tea and coffee drinking is none the less a case of drug-addiction, even
                though it be taken at meal time, and notwithstanding that its use has become
                well-nigh universal.
            

            
              OTHER NERVE IRRITANTS

              A class of substances which are not generally classed as poisons, but which are
                almost as irritating in their effects on the nerves are the condiments. Pepper,
                mustard, vinegar, horse-radish, cayenne, spices, capsicum, and their congeners
                irritate the delicate linings of the stomach and intestines, inhibit a natural flow
                of the digestive juices, and so derange the processes of digestion as to render the
                user an easy prey to many a nervous outbreak. Neurasthenics should beware of foods
                that are hot when they are cold.

              The American people, in common with their English cousins, consume enormous
                quantities of the flesh of animals for food. All forms of flesh food contain certain
                irritating substances, such as uric acid which was circulating through the flesh of
                the animal at the instant of death, and which is swallowed along with the meat, and
                has power to raise the blood-pressure considerably by its irritating effect on the
                tender linings of the  blood vessels and its influence
                upon the nervous system. Excessive meat eating is another cause at the bottom of our
                tendency to "neurasthenia."

              With this group of poisons taken into the system from without may also be mentioned
                the poisons of impure air. Typical results of air toxication are seen in the case of
                ill-ventilated school rooms. The characteristic effects are languor, dullness, and,
                in time, irritability, due to a poisoned condition of the nervous system. The
                effects are just as pronounced in homes that lack proper facilities for
                ventilation.

              Patent medicines, headache powders, and pain relievers must also be classed as a
                very important cause of nervousness. In most instances they contain a large
                proportion of alcohol, which acts on the system in the same manner as indicated in
                the foregoing paragraphs on alcohol. Opiates and narcotics are also very frequently
                present, especially cocaine and opium, introduced for the purpose of rendering the
                nerves insensible to pain, without at the same time removing the causes of the
                pain.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              

                 While heredity predisposes to nervousness, nevertheless, neurasthenia
                  is an acquisition, not an inheritance. True, neurasthenia develops on the
                  hereditary base; the acquired form springs up as a result of stress and
                  strain.

                 The physical causes of neurasthenia embrace unhygienic living,
                  overeating, the sedentary life, overwork, accidents, eye-strain, and physical
                  diseases.

                 The mental factors in nervous exhaustion are: the magnification of
                  trifles, misdirected emotion, uncontrolled impulses, misinterpreted feelings,
                  daily discontent, mental shock, worry, overstudy, and anxiety.

                 Neurasthenia attacks the laboring classes as well as professional
                  people. Geographically, the largest proportion of cases are found in the Northwest
                  and in the higher altitudes of the West.

                 While neurasthenia is found in the country as well as in the city, it
                  predominates in the city as a result of bad living, sleeping, working habits-- not
                  to mention intemperance.

                 Physical diseases, such as visceral misplacements and congestion,
                  portal (liver) congestion, typhoid, influenza, malaria, syphilis, glandular
                  disorders, and even adenoids, are all exciting causes of nervousness.

                

                 Poisons are a great factor in the causation of neurasthenia. They may
                  be classified as (1) Metabolic poisons, (2) Disease toxins, and (3) Poisons taken
                  in from the outside.

                 Metabolic poisons are those substances normally formed within the
                  body, but poorly eliminated and badly borne by the neurasthenic.

                 Muscular fatigue poisons, while unnoticed by the healthy organism, are
                  extraordinarily irritating and depressing to the neurasthene.

                 Any and all influences which overexcite, exhaust, irritate, or
                  intoxicate the oversensitive, nervous system of the neurasthene, contribute
                  directly to an aggravation of all his troubles.

                 The toxins of infection-- typhoid, influenza, rheumatism, tonsilitis,
                  like the metabolic poisons, all serve to irritate and excite the neurasthenic's
                  nerves.

                 Chief among those poisons taken into the body from the outside may be
                  mentioned tobacco, alcohol, narcotic beverages, patent medicines, etc.

                 While tobacco sometimes appears to steady the nerves, this effect is
                  largely deceptive, and is due to its influence in raising the blood-pressure. Of
                  all persons, neurasthenics should not smoke.

                 Alcohol is one of the ancestors of neurasthenia. By undermining the
                  nervous system of the individual, it has contributed largely to the downfall of
                  the great nations of history.

                 Narcotic beverages-- tea and coffee-- whatever their effect upon the
                  healthy nervous system, must be regarded as injurious drugs by the
                  neurasthenic.

                 Medical authorities look upon tea as especially harmful to irritable
                  and overwrought nerves.

                 The ordinary condiments-- pepper, mustard, vinegar, spices, etc.--
                  are probably irritating to the nerves as well as to the digestive mucous
                  membranes. Neurasthenics should beware of foods that are hot when they are
                  cold.

                 A high protein diet-- excessive meat eating-- may be a factor in
                  increasing nervousness, due to the irritating and acid character of the various
                  animal extractives.

                 Among other poisonous factors may be mentioned bad air, patent
                  medicines, headache powders, pain relievers, etc.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER XIII THE EAR-MARKS OF
              NEURASTHENIA

            THIS chapter is devoted to the symptoms of the neurasthenic states.
              The author has a two-fold purpose in so fully presenting these varied and numerous
              earmarks of the different forms of irritable nervous weakness. First, we are desirous
              of making it perfectly plain to the neurasthene that medical men are thoroughly
              conversant with all phases of neurasthenia; and, second, if possible, finally to
              convince these nervous sufferers that their afflictions are not unique, to show them
              that the doctor has met many a case just like theirs.

            
              CARDINAL SYMPTOMS

              While many of the symptoms hereafter noted may belong to the early or latent period
                of neurasthenia, and while others belong to the later or chronic stage of the
                disorder, nevertheless they will all be grouped together in this place, regardless
                of the particular stage of the disorder in which they customarily appear.

              It should also be remembered that no single patient was ever tormented and plagued
                with all the symptoms here mentioned. This chapter in a general way includes all of
                the symptoms of all of our patients-- that is, the leading and more constant
                complaints which the average neurasthene is accustomed to make.

              Before beginning the recital of concrete and definite symptoms, the reader's
                attention is called to the fact that all forms of nervous weakness are characterized
                by four cardinal and characteristic symptoms, viz.: 
                   Exaggerated suggestibility.
                   Over-sensitiveness.
                   Abnormal impressibility.
                   Increased emotionalism.
                

              

              These four states have been quite fully treated in former chapters and it will
                suffice for the present, merely to call attention to the fact that they all owe
                their origin and existence to that common-place mental state of chronic worry--
                fear. One writer has said that "the nervously-weak individual enacts his rle in the
                drama of life while in a state of perpetual stage-fright."
            

            
              PSYCHIC SYMPTOMS

              Of all the neurasthenic symptoms, the most common, the most prominent-- and, to the
                patient, the most alarming-- are those unique psychic disturbances which are
                characterized by a flock of abnormal thoughts and a flood of unhealthy feelings.

              The majority of neurasthenics have long been given to worry, and while they suffer
                more or less from phobias in general and the "blues" in particular, they are usually
                victims of one or more definite dreads. They are unduly anxious about the future and
                are given to premonitions-- they are extraordinarily apprehensious of some impending
                doom, especially is this true during their periodic seasons of depression-- those
                characteristic fits 9f neurasthenic despair.

              While these nervous sufferers are more or less concerned over these periods of
                sadness and depression, the thing which more greatly alarms them is their manifest
                tendency to "brain wandering"-- loss of conscious control over the mind and in the
                more severe or advanced cases, an actual loss or weakening of the memory; and this
                is a symptom which the average neurasthenic interprets as a sure fore-runner of
                insanity; and thus all their former fears and anxieties are increased many fold.
            

            
              MENTAL CONFUSION

              In other patients the leading symptom is a slowly developing dreamy state of mind,
                accompanied by lack of interest in life-- a pitiful sort of generalized apathy.
                Vagueness of both ideas and feelings, which progresses from month to month until the
                patient is overwhelmed by utter mental confusion, and then follows that pathetic
                spectacle of almost entire loss of self confidence-- that abject feeling of
                inferiority. The  neurasthenic's motto seems to be:
                never do today anything you can put off until tomorrow.

              And all of this cannot help but lead the patient to dread the future. His fears are
                multiplied, his obsessions increased, his premonitions intensified, while his
                apprehensions are enormously magnified. The sufferer reflects on everything he does,
                and reasons on all his, thoughts without reaching a definite and practical decision.
                He lives very little in the present and his thoughts always turn to the past or the
                future. We must not overlook the fact that during the time all these manifestations
                of psychic disturbances are presenting themselves, the patient's nervous
                irritability is enormously increased and that the various physical and sensory
                symptoms which accompany these psychic symptoms unfailingly lead to a serious degree
                of morbid introspection. And all this results in the development of extraordinary
                and unhealthy egotism, culminating in temperamental irritability, pitiful
                selfishness, and those characteristic fits of neurasthenic anger.
            

            
              SELFISHNESS AND EGOTISM

              Another and peculiar psychic twist in the neurasthenic's experience is the peculiar
                and sometimes violent manner in which he reacts to his own personality as well as to
                his family and friends. In the most freaky and lawless manner, the patient is either
                repelled or drawn by various mental and physical characteristics.

              Reasoning is more or less superficial while judgment is hasty and final decisions
                are therefore ill-formed and highly unsatisfactory. All capacity for mental work is
                greatly abridged, and there is soon developed a sort of mental asthenia. On the
                other hand, and in contrast with this state, there not infrequently appears, from
                time to time, a sort of "psychic explosion" which sets the mental machinery running
                at a rapid pace for a short season. These are the spells of so called "spontaneous
                mentation," which, unfortunately, ofttimes assail the nervous sufferers in the dead
                of night.

              There is just one other peculiar mental trait or trick which should be noted, viz.:
                the characteristic loss of the natural  affections--
                accompanied by that ever-present peevishness-- which makes it so hard for the
                neurasthenic's family either to please him or live with him.

              The victim, too, becomes extremely sensitive with regard to his own personal
                dignity. He meets a friend on the street who, absorbed in some problem, passes him
                by without recognition. The act is at once construed into a personal slight. The
                neurasthenic must occupy the limelight in the attention of his friends, or he feels
                himself neglected. Even his conscience becomes abnormally acute, taking on the same
                extraordinary sensitiveness. His every decision, his every thought and act is
                scrutinized lest it have a wrong motive; the result is, of course, that he finds
                what he looks for and becomes depressed and gloomy, making himself a burden, not
                only to himself, but to all with whom he comes in contact. Another frequent symptom
                of neurasthenia is feebleness of will power, an inability to arrive at a decision
                when confronted with difficult problems of any kind.
            

            
              CEREBRAL SYMPTOMS

              Chief among the neurasthenic's sufferings are those symptoms pertaining to the
                head. When these so-called cerebral symptoms predominate-- greatly overshading the
                other nervous manifestations-- it is customary to diagnose the case as one of
                "cerebral neurasthenia."

              One of the most common cranial symptoms, aside from headache, is the feeling of a
                band drawn tightly around the forehead. Many patients complain bitterly of this
                constricting or drawing sensation. Other patients suffer greatly from a burning
                sensation at some point on the scalp, usually at the crown of the head. (Often the
                area involved actually feels hot to the touch.) Other sensations felt about the head
                are those of prickling and crawling, also numbness and tenderness.

              Some patients complain of a sense of "fullness in the head" which is very
                distressing; the head "feels as if it would burst wide open any moment." Other
                sufferers complain of an aggravating sensation of "emptiness" in the head. These
                same feelings are also described by the terms of tightness, heaviness, and the
                sensation of something loose, shaking about in the cranium.

              

              Dizziness-- sometimes associated with the fear of fainting-- is a common
                neurasthenic symptom. Some patients describe their oppressive head feelings as a
                "lead cap headache." Others have throbbing, buzzing sensations in the head and
                complain of a sensation of wind blowing or water running under the scalp.
            

            
              FEARS OF INSANITY

              It is an established fact that any and all of these head symptoms or cerebral
                manifestations are greatly increased by mental application; and since
                self-examination is the principal occupation of neurasthenics, a vicious circle is
                readily established, whereby worry and anxiety are able enormously to increase these
                symptoms and sufferings, and thereby in turn, the worry and anxiety are still
                further increased.

              The patient is soon possessed with the conviction that he is rapidly losing his
                mind and begins his plans and preparations for a journey to the insane asylum. To
                the confirmed neurasthenic, all these mental symptoms spell insanity, just as he
                looks upon numbness in his hands or legs as certain forerunners of paralysis.
            

            
              NEURASTHENIC HEADACHES

              The headaches of neurasthenia are usually located in the front or on top of the
                head, occasionally in the back part of the head or as commonly referred to-- the
                base of the brain. The patient usually describes his headache as a sort of pressure
                or pushing downward upon the head. Pains in the back part of the head are usually
                described as a dull ache. In fact, neurasthenic headaches may range from a mild
                diffuse pain up to the most severe pain imaginable. In this connection we are
                dealing with only neurasthenic headaches; the head pains of hysteria and nervous
                sick headache or migraine will be treated in other chapters.

              At the time of this writing there comes into the office a young business man,
                manifestly a neurasthenic; among other symptoms he complains of regular headaches.
                He also complains of pain in the back between the shoulder blades, especially in the
                evening  after the day's work. The patient is visibly
                nervous. He has various abnormal sensations or mild pains in various parts of the
                body from time to time, and describes his headache as follows: 
                  "Well, I'll tell you, doctor, my headache is something like a sensation of
                    mildly squeezing the brain. Sometimes it feels like a pressing down sensation on
                    top of my head. At other times it feels as if there were a tight band around my
                    head. My headache is usually very much worse in the morning, becoming a great
                    deal better or entirely disappearing as the day wears on, while the pain in my
                    back, between the shoulders, usually gets worse towards evening. Sometimes my
                    headache is really not a pain, but only a sensation of fullness or a sense of
                    uneasiness in the head."
                

              While the real cure of this headache is to be found in the successful treatment of
                the neurasthenia and the improvement of the general physical state; nevertheless,
                these headaches may be greatly relieved or entirely removed by means of alternate
                hot and cold compresses over the top of the head and the back of the neck, in
                connections with a very hot foot bath. The hot compresses should be wrung out of
                boiling water and the cold cloths out of ice water.

              Cases which are not relieved by the alternate hot and cold compresses to the head,
                are usually relieved or greatly benefited by alternate hot and cold sponging of the
                entire spinal column. The skin over the spine is briskly rubbed for a few seconds
                with a cloth wrung out of boiling water and this is followed by brisk rubbing with
                cloths wrung out of ice water. The further treatment of neurasthenic headaches and
                other symptoms will be reserved for later chapters.
            

            
              SPINAL MANIFESTATIONS

              Many of the neurasthenic's complaints are found to be connected with the spine, the
                spinal nerve centers and nerve branches. This fact explains why certain cases of
                nervous exhaustion are diagnosed as "spinal neurasthenia," and also why osteopathy
                has been so popular-- and in many cases helpful-- to these patients afflicted with
                "neurasthenic spines."

              

              These spinal neurasthenics are all more or less afflicted with backache in common
                with headache, the most frequent sites being the small of the back and high up just
                between the shoulder blades, and are usually described as associated with a trying
                "drawing" sensation at the sides or back of the neck.

              Marked tenderness on pressure is found at various points along the spinal column,
                the favorite locations being at the very top near the base of the skull, at the
                waist line, and at the top of the sacrum.
            

            
              SENSORY DISTURBANCES

              The chief symptom of neurasthenia is that general feeling of "tiredness"-- constant
                fatigue. In chronic neurasthenics the recumbent posture tends to become habitual.
                These patients are tortured off and on by all manner of vague and wandering
                sensations of heat, cold, prickling, tightness, numbness, stiffness, weakness,
                soreness, pain, pressure, etc., etc. These symptoms may be referred to this or that
                part of the body, and in addition there are a host of abnormal feelings connected
                with the internal organs of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis.

              Some special nerve trunk may appear to be tender to pressure throughout its entire
                length. Such tender areas are likely to be found in the spaces between the ribs,
                under the breast, at the pit of the stomach, and in the groins. This nervous
                irritability becomes so exaggerated at times as to result in the production of
                darting pains of a neuralgic nature which appear not only in these situations but at
                various other points on the trunk as well as the extremities. The patient becomes
                more and more alarmed, feels unfit for any serious work, and begins to behave like a
                rudderless ship in a storm. The slightest exertion sometimes results in turning
                loose a veritable storm of unpleasant feelings and painful sensations.
            

            
              SPECIAL SENSE DISORDERS

              Neurasthenics never fail to complain that reading (especially by artificial light)
                gives them a headache or otherwise distresses them. Sometimes the letters blur, at
                other times they run together. Some patients find reading difficult because they  simply cannot concentrate the mind sufficiently. The
                muscles of accommodation seem to be overquickly fatigued. The eyes are often so
                sensitive to light, that the patient is temporarily, compelled to remain in a
                darkened room or to wear colored glasses. Misty veils may appear to hang before the
                eyes greatly to the alarm of some patients.

              It is common for patients to complain of "specks" before the eyes when tired, or
                after reading; in others the vision is indistinct and confused. Another source of
                worry to these patients is the so-called negative images. After gazing for a short
                time at some object presenting marked contrasts of light and shade, and then when
                the eyes are turned away for a moment, this object appears to the vision with its
                light and dark spots reversed. This peculiarity of vision in the neurasthenic,
                together with other and easily explained illusions, cause these sufferers a great
                deal of unnecessary worry and excitement.
            

            
              HEARING AND SMELLING

              Chief among the neurasthenic disturbances of hearing is tinitus
                  aurum-- that constant ringing in the ears. They also suffer, especially when
                lying down, with a regular throbbing or pounding in the ears which is synchronous
                with the heart's pulsations. These patients are startled by the slightest sound, and
                frequently the sense of hearing seems to be highly over-sensitive.

              They are disturbed during the day and awakened at night by the slightest and most
                ordinary noises. They develop a veritable lunacy over street noises, automobiles,
                fruit peddlers, organ grinders, and, we are sorry to record, crying babies.

              The sense of smell is greatly deranged. The neurasthenic imagines he detects the
                presence of peculiar odors and bad smells.

              The sense of taste is also frequently involved. Foods may taste insipid, and the
                patient sometimes complains that he cannot distinguish between bitter and sweet, nor
                between hot and cold substances when placed in the mouth. The tongue is usually
                coated and the breath bad.

              The sense of touch is considerably demoralized. The 
                patients frequently complain of transitory increase and decrease in skin sensations.
                They sometimes complain that while they are conscious of touching an object with the
                hand, that the sensation seems to be obliterated before reaching the brain, thus
                producing a more or less haziness as to the nature and character of the object
                touched.
            

            
              MUSCLE MANIFESTATIONS

              While the leading symptom of neurasthenia is fatigue, and while the patient looks
                upon this feeling of weakness as being largely a sense of muscular exhaustion,
                notwithstanding this apparent nature of neurasthenic fatigue, it must be recognized
                that the difficulty is largely a matter of nerve weakness. However, it is entirely
                erroneous to suppose that the patient's muscular weakness is wholly imaginary. To a
                large extent, as far as the patient himself is concerned, this peculiar sense of
                muscular weariness is real.

              It is this aggravating fatigue that gives origin to much of the patient's
                peevishness, impatience, discontent, and nervous irritability; all of which only
                tend still further to increase the psychic element of this mischievous fatigue. The
                fact that a good night's rest does not relieve or remove this sense of fatigue, is
                what so worries and frightens the neurasthene. It has been my observation that it is
                this persistent fatigue which is largely responsible for creating that
                characteristic pessimism of the neurasthene.

              Even the muscles of expression are afflicted with this weariness, and it is only
                with great difficulty that the patient will permit himself to indulge in even the
                effort of a smile, while hearty laughter is entirely out of the question. The
                saddest feature of this tendency to fatigue is the ease and readiness with which the
                patient surrenders to it-- abandoning all effort at conquest.
            

            
              THE MOTOR NERVES

              Of course all this muscular feebleness lies not so much in the muscle itself, as in
                the weakness of the motor nerve supplying it. And this becomes so great in some
                cases of nervous  prostration that the patient is
                actually unable to turn over in bed. The fact that this fatigue is largely a nervous
                proposition tends to explain how the "batteries begin to find themselves" in the
                late afternoon or early evening and how the patient, after dinner, sometimes feels
                as if he had really had several hours' rest.

              Of course these same irritable motor nerves never cease to torment the patient with
                all sorts and forms of muscular tension, intermittent twitchings, particularly about
                the eyes, nose, and mouth, sudden jerking of the legs and various tremors.

              As might be imagined, walking or standing is peculiarly, irksome to neurasthenics.
                When compelled to stand they usually lean against something, and when sitting-- they
                greatly prefer rocking chairs-- they either slouch down in the chair or rock
                incessantly.
            

            
              DIGESTIVE SYMPTOMS

              Thus far our recital of neurasthenic symptoms has dealt more largely with those
                nervous disturbances arising in either the sensory or motor mechanisms of the
                central (cerebro-spinal) nervous system. We now come to the discussion of those
                symptoms originating more particularly in the great sympathetic system of nerves.
                The irritation or demoralization of this powerful nervous mechanism directly results
                in disturbing and disordering the functions of the digestive, secretory,
                respiratory, and circulatory systems. (Fig. 1.)

              Such a large number of neurasthenics present digestive disorders as their chief
                complaint, that it has led to the designation of "gastric neurasthenia," or, in more
                common words-- nervous dyspepsia. These patients have a variable appetite--
                sometimes wanting, at other times voracious. They often complain of a heavy feeling,
                like a lump of lead, at the pit of the stomach. They are also inordinately bothered
                with gas in the stomach and intestines. They frequently suffer severely from
                heartburn. While digestion may be slow, many patients are able to maintain good
                weight, and, as a result, get scant sympathy from their friends when they so
                bitterly complain of their stomach troubles.

              

              These stomach troubles lead many neurasthenics to live in great terror of being
                carried off by cancer of the stomach. Many of these nervous patients suffer more or
                less from a tumbling down of the abdominal organs (enteroptosis), and while much of
                their talk and worry over dilatation of the stomach and prolapse of the kidney is
                largely imaginary, nevertheless, when these patients are properly fitted with a
                suitable abdominal support, we have often found, especially in the case of nervous
                women, that many of these distressing digestive symptoms have disappeared These
                supports often relieve that bothersome sensation of "fluttering in the abdomen,"
                which o many nervous patients complain of.

              The majority of neurasthenics suffer more or less from constipation. This condition
                sometimes alternates with a mucous diarrhoea, accompanied by all the terrors of
                intestinal fermentation and its resultant auto-intoxication.
            

            
              CIRCULATORY DISORDERS

              The palpitation of the heart from which neurasthenics so commonly suffer, is
                largely the result of disordered digestion-- pressure from gas in the stomach--
                although it may result from unusual mental or muscular efforts, and is sometimes
                accompanied by the most distressing pain in the cardiac region.

              Neurasthenics usually have a small rapid pulse of about ninety to the minute, and
                during these heart attacks it not uncommonly reaches one hundred and forty to one
                hundred and fifty to the minute. In advanced cases it is possible to detect even
                certain characteristic heart murmurs on close examination; and thus the patient's
                groundless fears of heart disease are further aroused and confirmed.

              The circulation is always feeble and unstable, the hands and feet are chronically
                cold, the patient is a victim of intermittent vasomotor storms, localized or general
                flushings, throbbing pulsations, abnormal sweats, etc. Blushing takes place with the
                least excitement. In many cases the palms of the hands are almost always covered
                with a clammy sweat. Many patients are plagued with these manifestations of sweating
                and blushing the moment they appear in public.
            

            

            
              THE PALE SKIN

              Over-excitation of the vasoconstrictor nerves is responsible for the prolonged
                spasm of the peripheral blood-vessels and the resultant pallor of the skin
                accompanied by congestion in one or more of the internal organs.] It is this
                sluggishness of the circulation that renders the neurasthenic so highly sensitive to
                atmospheric changes, especially to sudden cold. Notwithstanding this fact, it is
                indeed remarkable what a large proportion of these circulatory disorders are
                directly due to and controlled by the mental state.

              Disturbances in the circulation are reflexly manifested as disorders in secretion.,
                The urine is usually scant and highly colored, because neurasthenics drink too
                little water. The sweat is sometimes deficient, while in other cases the patient may
                break out in a profuse perspiration upon the slightest embarrassment. Sudden changes
                in the circulation also result in fits of disordered breathing. The respiratory
                movements are slow and the breathing shallow.
            

            
              INSOMNIA

              We come now to the consideration of the sufferer's nights. A night of complete
                wakefulness may follow a day of comparative tranquillity, whereas a heavy sleep of
                seven or eight hours may bring to a close a day of unusual turmoil. It sometimes
                requires an hour or two to get quieted down and ready for sleep after retiring.
                Meantime the mind runs like a mill race. The happenings of the day are gone over
                again and again in minutest detail, and the probable sayings and doings of the
                morrow thoroughly rehearsed. The patient is very apt to awake from dreams with
                rapidly beating heart, and with body and limbs quaking and bathed in perspiration.
                Many claim that they do not get more than two or three hours' sleep out of the
                twenty-four, for weeks and even months at a time.

              Fechner has shown how to measure the intensity of the noise required to awaken a
                person, as the gauge of intensity of that person's sleep. An instrument has been
                devised through which the sound impressions used for such an awakening are
                registered in the form of a curve upon a cylinder. The sound is  produced by a pendulum striking with varying force on a plate, causing
                tones of corresponding intensity. These experiments clearly demonstrate the
                existence of a typical "neurasthenic curve," which shows that neurasthenics often
                awaken too early in the morning-- in other words, their sleep is interrupted by the
                slightest sound.
            

            
              THE CONCLUSION

              In reciting the symptoms of neurasthenia in this chapter the author does not
                pretend that all have been noted. Many have been omitted, but enough are here
                included to show what a protean disorder nervous exhaustion is.

              Let our neurasthenic reader pause and ponder-- let him note what a galaxy of
                symptoms and disturbances are herewith presented, and then stop for a moment and
                coolly reflect that he himself may actually have all these symptoms of disease-- and
                yet the only thing ailing him is simple neurasthenia, a bunch of nervous capers
                which are not even permitted to dignify themselves by being regarded as a real
                disease.

              Disturbances in the generative system as manifested in neurasthenia will be noted
                in a later chapter. (See chapter xvi.)

              Pain, as associated with neurasthenia, is fully discussed in the next two
                chapters.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The purpose in reciting the symptoms of neurasthenia is two-fold;
                  first, to convince the neurasthenic that his sufferings are neither unusual nor
                  unique. Second, to show that the doctor has met many another case just like
                  his.

                 The cardinal symptoms of neurasthenia are: exaggerated suggestibility,
                  oversensitiveness, abnormal impressibility and increased emotionalism.

                 The characteristic symptoms of neurasthenia owe their origin and
                  existence to fear. The neurasthene enacts his role in the drama of life while in a
                  state of perpetual stage-fright.

                 Psychasthenics are tormented with abnormal thoughts, a flood of
                  unhealthy feelings, worry, definite dreads, premonitions, and periodical attacks
                  of the blues.

                 Other common psychic symptoms are mental confusion, vagueness of ideas
                  and emotions, loss of self-confidence, morbid 
                  introspection, nervous irritability, extraordinary egotism, and characteristic
                  fits of anger.

                 Neurasthenics reason superficially. Judgment is hesitating and
                  ill-formed. Capacity for mental work is abridged. They experience frequent
                  "psychic explosions," and have a tendency to more or less estrangement from their
                  loved ones.

                 While neurasthenics are very sensitive to slights and neglects, they
                  are very prone to both slight and neglect other people.

                 Common symptoms experienced in the head are: constriction band
                  feeling, burning spots, prickling, crawling, fullness, emptiness, and
                  dizziness.

                 All these cerebral symptoms are increased by mental application which
                  in turn enormously increases other symptoms. The net result is to greatly increase
                  the patient's ever-present fear of insanity.

                 The neurasthenic headache is described as a sensation of mildly
                  squeezing the brain, or one of pressure on top of the head. It is worse in the
                  morning and grows better during the day.

                 The most common spinal manifestations are backache, tender spots, and
                  a bothersome drawing sensation at the back of the neck.

                 While the chief sensory symptom is tiredness or fatigue, the patient
                  is also tortured with sensations of heat, cold, prickling, tightness, numbness,
                  stiffness, weakness, soreness, pressure, and wandering neuralgic pains.

                 The vision of the neurasthene is easily overtaxed by reading. The
                  letters blur or run together, specks float before the eyes, while still other
                  disturbances needlessly alarm the patient.

                 The hearing is overacute. The patient is greatly disturbed by all
                  forms of noise, automobiles, peddlers, organ grinders, crying babies, etc.

                 The special senses of smell, taste and touch are all more or less
                  deranged, and afford the patient no end of anxiety.

                 It is the aggravating fatigue or muscular weakness that produces the
                  patient's peevishness, impatience, discontent, and nervous irritability.

                 The worst feature of neurasthenic fatigue is the readiness with which
                  the patient surrenders to it. He makes little or no effort at resistance.

                 These same irritable motor nerves, responsible for muscular weakness,
                  never fail to torment the patient with all sorts of tension, twitchings, jerkings,
                  and tremors.

                 The sympathetic nervous system gives rise to a very large number of
                  the most distressing of the neurasthenic's troubles, the chief of which is
                  "nervous dyspepsia."

                

                 Most nervous patients suffer from chronic constipation as well as
                  from enteroptosis-- a general tumbling down of the abdominal organs.

                 Among other circulatory symptoms may be mentioned palpitation of the
                  heart, rapid pulse, unstable circulation, throbbing pulsations, pale skin,
                  abnormal sweats, etc.

                 The neurasthenic is also troubled with disturbances of the bodily
                  secretions. The urine is usually scanty. Sweating may either be deficient or
                  profuse.

                 One of the neurasthene's worst enemies is his persistent insomnia. He
                  is awakened by trifles and harassed by dreams.

                 And so it is possible for these nervous sufferers to be afflicted
                  with an almost endless variety of symptoms, simulating all sorts of disease, and
                  yet the diagnosis is neurasthenia.
              
            
          


          
            
            CHAPTER XIV FASTIDIOUS SUFFERING AND
              IMAGINARY PAIN

            A CAREFUL study of the human nervous system makes it plain that the
              sensations of sight, sound, and pain are not located or experienced in the special
              sense organs. Here, to be sure, the first step is taken toward their arousal, but they
              finally depend, without exception, upon special activity in the cortex of the
              cerebrum-- the outer portion of the upper brain.

            These feelings, which we commonly recognize and call sensations or pain, result from
              the excitation of certain special nerves which end in the eye, the nose, the ear, the
              skin, and other organs, and which, when stimulated, cause waves of nervous energy to
              pass quickly over the nerves up to the brain; and it is only after these waves of
              nerve energy reach the brain, and are there received and responded to by the special
              centers, that the sensations of sight, sound, pain, etc., are experienced.

            
              PSYCHIC SENSATION

              We begin to see that an idea, an experience, a sensation, a pain, or even a
                disease, may be wholly unreal-- that it does not follow that an experience is true
                and genuine just because the mind accepts it as true. The mind is capable of almost
                unlimited deception, monstrous imposition, and is subject to innumerable errors of
                internal working and inaccuracies of the thinking process. But it must be remembered
                that imaginary or unreal disease is altogether able to give rise
                to a vast amount of real suffering.

              And so it is possible for the body to originate, and the mind to recognize,
                sensations which are not actually present; for instance, cancer of the foot can
                produce severe pain for months; cancer, foot, and all, may be amputated, and yet the
                   patient may keep on recognizing pain as coming from
                the foot-- recognizing it as in the foot-- for weeks after the diseased member has
                been buried in some distant field.

              And so various sensations of feeling-- itching, pricking, burning as well as sounds
                and voices, sights and objects, may be aroused in the brain, while in reality they
                have no existence; they are merely illusions, sense delusions, or mental
                hallucinations. Y Sensations can produce ideas, and it should also be borne in mind
                that ideas can also produce sensations.
            

            
              FICTITIOUS PAIN

              Under certain diseased or unnatural conditions, what is there to hinder the nerves
                or nerve centers from automatically setting in operation waves of energy or
                reporting impressions on their own responsibility, entirely independent of the
                impressions made upon the organs of special sensation, with which they are
                connected? and, further, even if this did not occur, what is there to prevent the
                special brain centers, under certain abnormal conditions, from reporting to the
                consciousness of the individual that they have received certain impressions of
                sight, sound, or pain, when in reality they have received no such impressions? The
                special center of sensation for some particular sense organ may automatically,
                independently, and spontaneously give origin to a false sensation-- that is, a
                sensation which in that particular instance did not have a definite physical origin.
                In this way arise hallucinations, delusions, illusions, and various paraesthesias;
                for example, a bitter taste in the mouth; as well as psychic or fictitious
                sensations of pain.

              And so it is found that the mental state of fear, together with all its many phases
                and numerous psychic offspring, has a tendency to produce unnatural and abnormal
                sensations or to increase their intensity; and it may even torture the sufferer with
                sensations and feelings which have no physical foundation. Fear and worry demoralize
                the nervous mechanism of the body, and so greatly interfere with the normal and
                natural interpretation of physical impressions and the recognition of normal bodily
                sensations. )It is entirely possible for the mind to recognize an unreality as
                real.
            

            

            
              HABIT PAINS

              Reference has already been made to the suffering which is sometimes long
                experienced after a cancerous foot has been amputated. Patients not infrequently
                suffer actual pain for a period of time after the disease causing the pain is
                effectually removed-- they get well but the pain persists. It is just such
                experiences as these that have led physicians and psychologists to recognize the
                existence of the so-called "habit pain."

              Medical men are constantly meeting with a class of nervous patients who, on careful
                examination, are found to be the unconscious victims of this so-called "habit
                sensation," or, as I call it, "post-convalescent pain." In such cases, even when the
                actual cause is removed, either the nerves continue to forward pain impressions to
                the brain, or the brain centers, having become habituated to reacting to such
                impressions, continue to awaken the consciousness of pain.

              The nervous system is the very home and mechanism of habit. All our habits-- good
                or bad-- have their origin and existence in the tendency of the nerve centers to
                duplicate, repeat, and reiterate their impulses; it is, therefore, little wonder
                that when certain sensations of pain have long been experienced-- when their painful
                impulses have many times been passed over the nerve tracts and through the nerve
                centers up to the special receiving and recognizing centers of the brain-- I say it
                is little wonder that the nervous mechanism thus involved acquires the "pain habit,"
                and so actually continues to transmit and recognize these painful sensations long
                after their original and exciting causes have been removed.
            

            
              PAIN AND THE PSYCHIC THRESHOLD

              The consideration of "habit pain" is sufficient to demonstrate the fact that the
                concentration of one's attention on the site of pain is entirely sufficient, first,
                to intensify the suffering, and, later even after the exciting causes of the pain
                are removed-- to perpetuate the painful sensations. This sort of suffering is
                sometimes spoken of as "attention pains."

              It is a well established psychological fact that the threshold 
                
                  
                    Diagram illustrating the conditions present when a sensation is increased to
                      the point of actual pain, causing constant physical suffering. 1, the normal
                      and average threshold of consciousness; 2, waves of sensory stimuli before
                      being increased to the point of pain; 3, waves of increased sensory stimuli
                      recognized as physical pain.
                  

                  
                    Diagram illustrating habit or attention pains. 1, the threshold of
                      consciousness; 2, waves of normal sensory stimuli; 3, waves of abnormal
                      sensory stimuli resulting from injury. At 4, the painful stimuli have dropped
                      to normal level, but the threshold of consciousness is so lowered that they
                      are still recognized as painful.
                  

                  
                    Diagram illustrating the psychic cure of pain by elevation of the threshold
                      of consciousness. 1, the threshold of consciousness, first normal, later
                      elevated; 2, waves of normal, non-painful stimuli; 3, waves of increased and
                      painful stimuli; 4, although the stimuli persist as abnormal and painful, the
                      pain is lost by an elevation of the "threshold."
                  

                  Fig. 7. Diagrams Illustrating the Relation of the Threshold of
                    Consciousness to the Sensation of Pain
                
                
                 of one's consciousness may be either raised or
                lowered by the concentration of the attention. The term "threshold of consciousness"
                is in quite general use and is commonly understood as referring to that boundary
                line which separates our mental operations into the conscious and subconscious. What
                we really mean is that we have a "threshold of awareness"; everything above which we
                are conscious of, while those processes which occur below this so-called "threshold"
                are to us unconscious; that is, we are unaware of them. This threshold of
                consciousness is an indefinite and constantly shifting affair. A sudden shifting of
                the threshold occurs when we fall asleep, also when we wake up.

              Let us represent the normal threshold of consciousness by the straight line 1, in
                Fig. 7, A. We will represent normal and
                non-painful sensory stimuli by waves of nervous impulses, as at 2. At 3 these
                sensory impulses are so abnormally increased that they quickly ascend above the
                threshold of consciousness, and the individual immediately becomes aware of the
                presence of pain. This is the state of affairs in all normal painful
                experiences.

              In Fig. 7, B, we again illustrate the
                threshold of consciousness by the horizontal line 1. In this case the "threshold" is
                normal at first, but at 4 it drops abnormally low. The normal impulses (2) are
                unrecognized as pain as in diagram A. The increased and painful stimuli (3) are
                painfully recognized as before, but let us suppose that the pain in this case is due
                to some injury or inflammation which so profoundly affects the mind of the patient,
                that even after the injury has been healed or the disease cured at 4, it is
                discovered that the patient's attention has become so intently focused on the pain,
                that the "threshold of consciousness" (1.) is materially lowered. In this event it
                is readily apparent that the waves of former normal and natural sensory stimuli (2.)
                now pass far up into the conscious area of the mind, where they are now actually
                recognized as painful.

              And so we find that a lowering of the "threshold of awareness" immediately
                following some painful experience or some siege of suffering, is entirely sufficient
                to elevate natural and  harmless sensory impressions
                to the point where the mind recognizes them as painful-- and this is nothing more or
                less than "habit pain," "attention pain"-- purely "psychic pain."

              Fig. 7, C, illustrates how an elevation of
                the threshold of consciousness may work to bring about the psychic cure of what
                would otherwise continue as bona fide physical pain. By taking one's mind and
                attention off some minor painful sensation, it is altogether possible to effect its
                cure in just this manner. We have all received slight injuries at times when our
                attention was occupied or diverted-- and never felt the pain until we discovered
                that we had been hurt. A careful study of the diagrams in Fig. 7 will serve to make this matter entirely clear.
            

            
              ACTION AND REACTION

              And so we begin to discern that the state of the attention-- the focus of the
                mind's eye, has much to do with determining the degree of our sufferings. The
                neurological optimist may be in real pain but effectually rises above it-- as many
                Christian Scientists actually do by sheer force of will and the moral determination
                not to be a victim of the whims of the flesh. Such patients actually rise above
                their common pains by elevating the threshold of consciousness. On the other hand,
                the nervous pessimist-- the victim of acute fear and chronic worry-- by lowering the
                threshold of consciousness, soon comes to that point where a large per cent of the
                ordinary and normal sensations of life are recognized as actual pain the greater
                part of the time. But it must not be supposed that "attention pain" is not real.
                These psychic sufferings are all very real-- to the patient. True, the cause of the
                pain may not be real-- may not be literal and physical-- nevertheless, when the
                threshold of the pain consciousness is lowered, the sufferings and misery of such
                individuals is very real; in their minds they actually suffer the tortures they
                describe.

              We never suffer from agonizing pains unless there exists some corresponding
                disturbance in either the physical state, the nervous mechanism, or in the level of
                the threshold of consciousness. When we come to take into account this new factor
                   of psychic awareness, we are compelled to admit
                that all forms of pain and suffering are real; and so we see that there is no such
                thing-- peaking in the light of both psychology and physiology-- as an imaginary
                pain. Pain is only imaginary in the sense that actual physical impressions are in no
                way responsible for the painful sensations. The true imaginary pain must have its
                origin in the ideas and impulses which originate in the mind itself; and even in
                these cases we are forced to recognize the existence of an underlying morbid mental
                state; and in many cases, no doubt, this morbid mental state is indirectly the
                result of pre-existent physical disorder in some part of the body.
            

            
              FORGETTING PAIN

              While we may ofttimes say to a patient, "There is little the matter with you,
                forget your pain and get well," and while such advice does actually cure many
                sufferers, we should remember that their pain was probably real-- for when the
                average individual believes he is suffering, he really is-- but what our advice did
                for such sufferers, was to take their minds off themselves and thus to raise their
                lowered "thresholds of consciousness" to such a point that their former painful
                sensations are no longer recognized as unpleasant-- and so they are immediately
                cured.

              What fine expression Seneca gave to this thought in his eighteenth letter to
                Lucilius, in which he says: 
                  Beware of aggravating your troubles yourself, and of making your position worse
                    by your complaints. Pain is slight when it is not exaggerated by the idea; and
                    if we encourage ourselves by saying: "It is nothing," or at least, "It is of
                    little account, let us endure it, it will soon be over," we render the pain
                    slight by thinking it so.
                

              The Mohammedans have been able to fix this beneficent sentiment more firmly in
                their minds than Christians; they fear death less and accept with calm resignation
                the misfortunes they cannot avoid. Sincere Christians ought also to be able to
                submit joyfully to the decrees of Providence, The idea of  necessity is enough for the philosopher. We are all in the same
                situation in regard to the things that are and to things that we cannot change. The
                advantage will always lie with him who, by whatever convictions, is able to attain
                to a calm resignation.
            

            
              FASTIDIOUS SUFFERING

              Fastidious sufferers comprise those sensitive and neurotic patients who are more or
                less constant victims of a certain refined variety of human affliction which is
                characterized by a rarefication of suffering and a nicety of illness altogether
                different from and wholly unlike the common everyday sort of pains which harass
                ordinary mortals.

              It is not the author's purpose lightly to speak of these so-called "fastidious
                sufferers," nor do we undertake to belittle their suffering. Although we speak of
                this group of nervous patients as belonging to the "fastidious class," nevertheless,
                we freely recognize the reality of their pain and its accompanying distress and
                unpleasant sensations. These pains are very real to the patient-- independent of the
                fact as to whether they have their real origin wholly or partially in the mind of
                the sufferer.

              The study of the psychology of pain and suffering compels us to recognize the
                existence of these "refined" phases of human suffering. The failure of the medical
                profession to recognize and deal with these nervously and psychically disordered
                patients has been largely responsible for the rapid and enormous growth of that
                great army of mental healers, psychic quacks, and other mind cure frauds.

              It is now a settled and accepted psychological fact that a patient's sufferings--
                the degree of his pain and the quality of his distress-- are all more or less
                determined by the sensitiveness of his nerves, his habits, his mode of thought, the
                quality of his perception and feelings-- as well as by the general state of the
                physical health, taken in connection with past education and present environment--
                all of which become factors in the scheme which predisposes one to the likelihood of
                becoming some sort of a "fastidious sufferer."
            

            

            
              REFINED PAIN

              The pain of neurasthenia is due, in general, to just two groups of exciting causes:
                first, to tired out nerves-- nerve exhaustion-- depletion of "energy granules"; and,
                second, to irritated nerves-- nerves chronically poisoned by certain toxic
                substances habitually circulating in the blood stream.

              The pains of these "constitutionally inferior" and neurasthenic individuals are
                usually manifested in the form of certain characteristic headaches, which have
                already been considered. The backache and other pains along the spinal region which
                so frequently trouble neurasthenics are probably due to the condition of the muscles
                found in that locality. They also suffer from a host of reflex and referred pains
                and other disagreeable sensations which have their origin in overworked stomachs,
                lazy livers, sluggish bowels, and poor circulation.

              As a rule, the neurasthenic describes his pains in an orderly and rational manner.
                In the main, all his sufferings are increased by work and relieved by rest; however,
                this is not always true of certain forms of headache often associated with nervous
                prostration. These peculiar head pains, as noted elsewhere, are sometimes much worse
                in the morning and are greatly relieved by moderate exercise, disappearing in the
                late forenoon or early afternoon.

              Before one has long had neurasthenia, the threshold of the consciousness, as
                regards pain, generally becomes much lowered, and ere long, these neurotic patients
                are suffering from a host of "attention pains." And so, while there may be more or
                less of a physical or pathological background to neurasthenia, it is certainly a
                condition in which the psychical elements largely predominate; at least, the great
                weakness and the ever present exhaustion on the occasion of the least exertion, must
                be looked upon as being largely mental or nervous. Soon there appears "habit
                fatigue" with all its accompanying sensations and symptoms.
            

            
              NEURASTHENIC PAINS

              The neurasthene will enter the doctor's office and begin enthusiastically to
                describe his terrible sufferings, speaking of  his
                agonizing pain with such intensity of feeling as to disclose his evident delight and
                pleasure in the narration of his miseries. The physcian immediately begins to
                suspect that such a patient is a confirmed neurasthene or psychasthene; for such
                patients usually take great pleasure and pride in the glorification of their
                supposed rare and unique physical infirmities.

              We recently saw such a patient who described a "frightful pain" which had tormented
                her left arm for three years; and as she told of her "unbearable suffering," of her
                "excruciating agony," her face wore a beautiful smile and her whole countenance
                beamed with delight and joy. She seemed to take supreme satisfaction in being able
                graphically and exhaustively to describe a pain whose location and character she
                thought her physician was unable to comprehend. As a general rule, these patients
                who so earnestly and eloquently describe their pains and miseries may be classified
                as neurasthenes, and their pains may be regarded as largely belonging to the
                "attention" sort.

              The interesting thing about most of these fastidious pains is the fact that they
                are usually described as being in some region of the body which does not correspond
                with the course of any nerve tract or the location of any nerve center. The majority
                of these pains, no doubt, had their early origin in connection with some actual
                irritation or strain of the nerves. These peculiar pains, first started by fatigue
                and toxemia, are perpetuated by the emphasis of the attention-- by greatly lowering
                the threshold of the pain consciousness.
            

            
              NEUROTIC MISERIES

              As a rule, these neurotic pains are quite definite-- they are usually described as
                neuralgic, or as deep seated and constant miseries. They are often found in the
                joints, or may be described as overlying some internal organ-- the stomach, liver,
                kidney, etc. Sometimes these patients tell of "steady pains" in the arms, legs, or
                in the back.

              As a general rule, these obsessive patients are open to argument regarding the
                reality of their sufferings. Not infrequently they will admit that their sufferings
                are more or less imaginary,  but they find it next to
                impossible to act upon such conclusions, even though they most earnestly endeavor to
                rise above their pain and banish their miseries. These sufferers usually belong to
                the self-centered, selfish, and egotistic class, and they are seldom cured of their
                "psychic pains" until their attention is effectually diverted from themselves to
                things more healthy and elevating.

              And so, while these pains may have had their origin in a bona fide neuritis or some
                other actual physical disorder, the case is regarded as one of fastidious suffering
                when the misery persists long after the nerve lesion has been healed-- after the
                physical basis of the original disease has been cured and removed. The continuance
                of such painful sensations after the cure of their original cause, must be due to a
                combined disorder of the powers of attention and a lowering of the threshold of pain
                consciousness.
            

            
              PSYCHASTHENIC SUFFERINGS

              The author recently had a patient who complained of a small, circumscribed spot on
                her arm which felt as if bees were all the time stinging it. With an improvement in
                general health and a course of psychic therapeutics along the lines of the
                "reeducation" of her will, these annoying sensations gradually disappeared.

              Dr. Dana gives the symptoms in two cases of psychasthenic pain as follows: 
                  A patient, now a man of sixty, has for fifteen years been going around on
                    crutches because he has so much pain in the knees. These knee-pains are always
                    present slightly, but are greatly increased by walking, or by any serious
                    vibrations; so that he cannot use a motor car or carriage, and he travels,
                    whenever it is possible, by boat. This patient is an educated and intelligent
                    man, without any observable symptoms of hysteria. The most elaborate methods of
                    physical and clinical exploration have failed to discover anything wrong with
                    his knees. He intelligently appreciates the explanation that his trouble is
                    purely an idea and tries to follow the suggestion based on this line, without
                    avail. For he gave up his business and devoted his attention to his knees.
                    Naturally he has "attention pains."
                  A woman aged forty, of good general health, came to me complaining  of pain over the region of the liver, which she had
                    had for nearly three years continuously. It was a kind of pain which would be
                    associated with some disturbance of the gall-bladder. She had been examined in
                    every possible way by the best experts, who all reached the conclusion that it
                    was, as they termed it, "nervous." She had nothing to gain by having the pain,
                    and seemed earnestly to try to raise herself above it. She and a devoted husband
                    worked together daily over the pain, but it continued obstinately despite every
                    kind of a cure, until the time when I saw her. It then gradually disappeared
                    under a course of educational therapeutics which was given to her. Her pain
                    began from an acute local disturbance. It kept up through her attentions to
                    it.
                

              And so these fastidious sufferers variously describe their pains and sensations as
                a jelly-like feeling in the small of the back; deep-seated, permanent pains in
                various parts of the body; painful lumps in the throat; various abnormal skin
                sensations-- such as burning, bursting, pricking, crawling, etc. (quite in common
                with some forms of neurasthenia and hysteria). They also have pains which affect one
                side of the head, one foot, or one leg. Sometimes they suffer from peculiar
                sensations such as the body being too short or too long; as well as from internal
                trembling, nausea, dizziness, etc.
            

            
              THE HYPOCHONDRIAC'S PAINS

              The hypochondriac is "set" in his ways. It is quite impossible to reason these
                unfortunates out of their troubles. Their sufferings have become a real part of
                themselves, and all efforts to help them by an appeal to reason is soon lost-- you
                can only cheer them up for the time being. In the most pathetic manner these
                sufferers will tell you of their burning or prickling hands while they tenderly
                exhibit the suffering member for your inspection and sympathy. They suffer all sorts
                of pains such as "boiling in the stomach," "ice on the back," "bees stinging one
                side of the head," "water running under the skin," "the body stuffed with prickly
                burrs," as well as all sorts of painful sensations in the various internal organs;
                but, as a rule, the pains of hypochondria are not so definite as those of
                psychasthenia.

              The hypochondriac describes his pains in altogether a different manner from that of
                the neurasthenic and the psychasthenic.  As a rule,
                hypochondriacs suffer from a combination of morbid depression and abnormal anxiety--
                a sort of mild and chronic melancholia. These patients describe their pains and
                sufferings with great seriousness and solemnity. They will gravely tell the doctor
                that they have not slept a wink for days or even weeks; that their knee or shoulder
                has pained them constantly for ten years; they will describe their sensations of
                bursting, boiling, burning, etc., and the spinal region is a favorite site for many
                of these abnormal sensations.

              The hypochondriac will frequently describe his sufferings with a tearful eye; in
                fact, their pains are even more than real-- they are excruciatingly agonizing. No
                doubt, many of these morbid pains and obsessive sufferings really do have a literal,
                physical basis in the poorly nourished and irritated nerves which are the result of
                chronic autointoxication; for it is a generally recognized fact that most
                hypochondriacs have been or are now, dyspeptics-- victims of chronic constipation,
                etc. In addition to this susceptible physical soil, we also usually have a marked
                lowering of the threshold of the pain consciousness-- an abnormal fixation of the
                attention on the physical sensations; and thus the conditions are present for the
                creation of an ever increasing and vicious "pain circle." Such patients are seldom
                cured by exclusive psychic treatment. Like the neurasthenics, they require proper
                physical treatment-- regulation of the diet, fresh air, exercise, and the increased
                elimination and destruction of bodily poisons.
            

            
              TREATMENT OF FASTIDIOUS PAIN

              The following procedures have been found exceedingly helpful in the author's hands
                in the work of relieving the physical agonies of this class of patients, and should,
                of course, be employed in connection with proper psychic and systemic treatment:
                  
                  
                    Hydrotherapy. Many neurasthenic and psychasthenic pains can be
                    cured by local applications of heat and cold; by applying hot fomentations over
                    the site of the pain for a few moments, immediately followed by a brisk rubbing
                    with ice water or with a piece of ice, then more heat, etc. Very often  a few weeks of such local treatment, in connection
                    with general tonic measures (electric light baths, alternate shower baths, salt
                    glows, etc.), will suffice practically to cure the milder types of neurasthenic
                    pains.

                  
                    Massage. General and special massage are of great value in
                    this class of cases. Like the use of hot and cold water, scientific massage
                    promotes the circulation of the blood and increases the nutrition of the nerves.
                    Even the good, vigorous rubbing of the inexperienced layman is often able
                    greatly to relieve the aches and pains of these neurasthenic and hysteric
                    sufferers.

                  
                    Vibration. We have seen several cases of psychasthenic and
                    hypochondriac pain cured by the wise and persistent use of mechanical vibration.
                    This sort of treatment seems-- in addition to its influence on the currents of
                    the blood and the nerve impulses-- to be able to jog the ailing tissues out of
                    their diseased ruts, to cause them to form new habits and methods of
                    life.

                  
                    Electricity. There can be little doubt that galvanic
                    electricity can be scientifically employed in the treatment of these fastidious
                    sufferers. High frequency and other forms of electricity, while they may possess
                    some remedial power, are largely psychic in their effect upon the patient. The
                    more faith the patient has in these forms of electricity the more good they will
                    do them.
                
              
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 While sensations are aroused in the special sense organs, in reality
                  they are experienced or "felt" in the special centers of the brain.

                 Sensations, pains, or even disease, may be wholly psychic-- unreal,
                  and yet be able to produce a vast amount of real
                  suffering.

                 Pain may be entirely fictitious. The brain centers have power to fool
                  you. They are able to report feelings and sensations which have no physical
                  basis.

                 "Habit pain" is that form of suffering which persists after all actual
                  causes are removed. It is a sort of "post-convalescence" pain.

                 "Attention pains" are those miseries which result from concentrating
                  the mind on some trifling sensation, thereby greatly lowering the "threshold of
                  consciousness" for pain.

                

                 A lowering of the "threshold of consciousness" following some siege of
                  suffering enables ordinary sensory impressions to ascend up into the consciousness
                  to a point where they are recognized as pain.

                 The neurological optimist may rise above his pain by elevating the
                  "threshold;" while the nervous pessimist by lowering the "threshold" actually
                  turns the normal sensations into "attention pain."

                 All pain is real-- bona fide. The fact that it is psychic in origin
                  nowise detracts from its painfulness.

                 Christian Scientists and Mohammedans, as well as the devotees of
                  numerous other cults and religions, are able to divert the attention away from
                  pain and thus contribute directly to its cure by thus elevating the
                  threshold.

                 "Fastidious sufferers" comprise those neurotic individuals who are
                  constant victims of a sort of refined variety of human affliction.

                 It was the failure of physicians to recognize and relieve these
                  "fastidious sufferers" that gave rise to such a great army of mental healers,
                  psychic quacks, and mind-cure frauds.

                 The "refined pain" of neurasthenia is largely due to two causes:
                  overworked nerves and overirritated nerves.

                 In neurasthenia the threshold for pain is always greatly lowered.
                  This accounts for the presence of so many "attention pains."

                 These sort of pains are so real to the neurasthene and the
                  psychasthene, that they often describe them as "frightful," "agonizing,"
                  "unbearable," and "excruciating."

                 While the neurasthene is often willing to admit the psychic origin of
                  his sufferings, nevertheless he is seldom cured of his habit pains until his
                  attention is effectually diverted from himself.

                 These refined sort of pains are varied in character as well as
                  location, and are usually only cured by painstaking efforts along the line of
                  re-educational therapeutics.

                 Hypochondriacs complain of "boiling in the stomach," "ice on the
                  back," "bees stinging," and "water running under the skin," and are the most
                  difficult cases of rarefied suffering to cure.

                 These nervous sorts of suffering, in addition to their psychic base,
                  are frequently augmented by constipation and its resultant
                  auto-intoxication.

                 In addition to suitable psychotherapeutics, the majority of these
                  nervous sufferers are greatly benefited by appropriate hydrotherapy, massage,
                  electricity, etc.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER XV THE MISSION OF SUFFERING AND THE
              PURPOSE OF PAIN

            THE mission of pain is that of a friendly sentinel. Physical
              suffering is designed primarily to play the role of a warning messenger, and,
              subsequently, to serve as a corrective monitor. Pain must never be regarded as an
              arbitrary punishment-- as a manifestation of the wrath of the gods. Pain is nothing
              more or less than an expression of the displeasure or weakness of the nervous system.
              It is the outcry of the physical conscience against disease-causes, nervous states,
              and bodily abuses, designed to warn us of imminent danger and weakness or to protect
              us from some impending doom.

            
              THE VOICE OF PAIN

              Pain and suffering come upon us as a natural consequence of inheriting weak nerves,
                irritating the brain, or poisoning the nerves. Pain is simply a physiological
                warning, a psychological monitor, designed by nature to lead us away from the paths
                of disease and danger. The voice of pain should never be lightly regarded.* The language of suffering,
                when properly interpreted, tells of wrong habits, disordered nerve states,
                unwholesome practices, unsanitary surroundings, and yields an eloquent warning
                designed to reform the sufferer-- to cause him to make speedy amends. In fact, the
                real mission of all pain and suffering is to lead the sinner to that place where he
                will "cease to do evil and learn to do well." Warnings of pain are designed by
                nature to prevent suffering, and suffering, after it has come upon us, is usually
                nothing more or less than our own transgressions (and those of our ancestors)
                transposed into nature's penalty.

              

              *The special pains and
                sensations of the neurasthenic states were fully considered in the preceding
                chapter.

              

              The voice of pain is reformatory in its purpose and the language of disease is
                corrective in its mission; but it is a common practice, when pain has raised its
                voice in eloquent protest, warning us of the dangers besetting our course, for us to
                regard this beneficence of nature by resorting to the use of some powerful
                pain-killer or to some popular patent poison which quickly serves to silence these
                friendly voices of pain, while it in no wise works to remove the cause, and thereby
                bring about a rational and permanent cure.

              While it is true that pain must be relieved when it is of great severity or long
                continued, while it is true that life itself is sometimes dependent on our ability
                to stop suffering, nevertheless, before resorting to the use of these powerful pain
                remedies, which are usually composed of deceptive and dangerous habit-forming drugs,
                it certainly would be the better part of wisdom to give a thorough trial to such
                effective measures as heat, light, massage, rest, and other natural agencies, which
                will be more fully dealt with later on, and which are often so highly successful in
                both the relief and the cure of even the most severe and chronic forms of pain. In
                this way we are able to avoid the unpleasant and disastrous results which not
                infrequently attend the use of these popular pain-killers, so many of which often
                contain cocaine, opium, morphine, and other deleterious drugs.
            

            
              THE PURPOSE OF AFFLICTION

              It may safely be said that the wise purpose of suffering and affliction is to
                produce repentance and reform; and yet, we are often called upon to endure severe
                and long continued physical affliction under such conditions as render it
                exceedingly difficult to discover the exact transgression which is directly
                responsible for our misery. Our inability, thus always directly to discern the sin
                which is immediately responsible for the suffering, is, no doubt, in some measure at
                least, due to that lenient practice-- that merciful habit of nature-- manifested in
                holding back, as it were for a time, the just penalty of nearly all our sins against
                her. I refer to the interval which always occurs between seed-time and harvest. In
                this way Mother Nature gives the physical  sinner an
                opportunity to repent of his wrong practices a long time before the full harvest of
                his transgression breaks upon his defenseless head; but when her patient forbearance
                fails to bring about repentance and thus lead to reform, there is but one thing more
                for nature to do, and that is to withdraw her sustaining arm of vital resistance and
                allow the physical sinner to reap the full harvest of suffering which springs up
                from the seeds of his own wrong doing. Again, as will be shown later on, the
                neurasthenic not infrequently is made to suffer as a result of the sins of his
                wrong-doing ancestors.

              There can be but little doubt that nature has wisely arranged that our suffering
                shall ordinarily constitute her last corrective appeal designed to turn our feet
                from the path of disease into the highway of health to save the physical sinner from
                the ultimate destruction attendant on his continuance in sin. Indeed, this teaching
                regarding the purpose of affliction is a very ancient one, for it was, we believe,
                the prophet Jeremiah who wrote, "Thine own wickedness shall correct thee and thy
                back-slidings shall reprove thee."
            

            
              SOWING AND REAPING

              Within every physical and mental transgression, within every violation of the laws
                of life, within every compromise of the laws of health, there is concealed the seed
                of bodily disease, nervous disorder, and physical suffering; but time is required
                for the seeds of sin to bring forth their harvest, first of pain, then of suffering
                and disease, and, in the end-- if the corrective mission of these should fail--
                destruction and death.

              In every act of life the reaping is really contained in the sowing, and while there
                is invariably a delay between the seed-time and the harvest, it is, nevertheless,
                unerringly true that "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." But
                combined mercy and wisdom are shown in the fact that nature usually first flashes to
                the individual her warning signal of pain, and, after that, even when the full
                harvest-penalty of our sin descends upon us as the result of our persistent
                transgression, even then, all this resultant suffering is largely corrective and
                curative in its effect upon the body. In the earlier stages,  at least, most of the acute disorders are usually self-limited,
                corrective, and curative.

              The warning rle of pain and the corrective mission of suffering may well be
                illustrated by a common experience which most of us have passed through at one time
                or another in our lives the common accident of putting one's hand on a hot stove.
                The pain immediately felt causes one quickly to remove the hand, and who can but
                recognize, in view of its threatened destruction, that this intense and immediate
                pain is the kindest possible feeling which nature could dispatch to the
                consciousness. Under such circumstances, pain can only be looked upon as a warning
                voice calling upon one to take immediate action to save the threatened member. In
                fact, were it not for the restraining influence of physical pain, untold thousands
                of selfish and heedless mortals would quickly plunge themselves into all manner of
                sinful indulgences-- soul and body destroying practices-- which would speedily
                terminate their individual existence, and, ultimately, threaten even the integrity
                of the whole human race.

              Even the blister which was raised upon the burned hand is more or less of a
                corrective and curative process. The blister is nature's first effort to correct the
                results of the burn, and, as far as possible, to encourage the healing of the wound
                by the formation of new skin underneath. These reparative processes are protected by
                the blister overhead with its neutral Water bath underneath; indeed this is an ideal
                process, provided the water that is contained in the blister does not become
                infected by microbes and thus lead to the formation of pus. In this latter event, it
                would be better if the blister had been pricked and suitable artificial dressing
                applied.
            

            
              CAUSE AND EFFECT

              Every genuine physical pain is the effect, directly or indirectly, of some physical
                cause. The mission of pain and the language of disease, represent a chapter in human
                experience but little studied, but little understood, and, as a general rule,
                grossly misinterpreted. Too often the sufferer is wholly unable to read the
                handwriting of disease and distress on the walls  of
                his own living temple. The average sufferer stands in great need of a physiological
                Daniel to interpret this handwriting of disease on the walls of the body. The
                civilized races are exceedingly slow in coming to recognize that, in a general way,
                all matters of health and disease are controlled by the inexorable laws of cause and
                effect-- of sowing and reaping.

              The time has come when intelligent men and women should understand how quickly to
                translate the voice of pain into terms of transgression, how intelligently to
                interpret the language of disease into acts of reform. How long before the world
                will come to understand that true relation between sin and suffering, to understand
                that suffering is an effect and sin the cause.* How long before we shall finally and forever be
                delivered from that ancient and superstitious nonsense so commonly expressed in the
                modern funeral sermon which lays the blame for disease and death upon an all wise
                God by affirming that the loved one was removed from our midst by a "mysterious
                dispensation of Providence."

              Indeed, it would seem that men and women with ability to discern the handwriting of
                disease and interpret the language of suffering have always been scarce upon the
                earth, for even in the time of Job the afflicted, it was said of the one who would
                be able to show him the significance of his suffering and the mission of his misery
                it was said of such a messenger or interpreter-- that he was "one among a thousand."
                True, Job had many so-called comforters, but none were able to help him in
                deciphering the meaning of his troubles, to learn the way out of his sorrows; so
                much so, that it was said of the one that was able "to show unto man what is right
                for him," that he was "one among a thousand."
            

            
              ACUTE AND CHRONIC DISEASE

              We have alluded to the experiences of suffering and the processes of disease as
                being both corrective and curative, and while this is largely and strictly true of
                acute disease, it is not altogether true of chronic disease. It is only while
                disease 
                *The rle of heredity
                  in the causation of the nervous disorders was fully considered in chapter
                  ii.
                 is in its earlier or acute stage that it is
                ordinarily curative. In these earlier stages, in general, acute disease may be
                looked upon as an effort of nature to cure, and what we commonly regard as disease
                is simply the reaction phenomenon which results from nature's
                wonderful efforts to restore the body to a normal and natural state; but if the
                habits of living are not corrected, if the exciting and irritating causes of acute
                disease are not abated, if the acting causes of nature's warning are not removed,
                then, in the later or chronic stages, the disease usually becomes a process of
                degeneration and destruction in its effect upon mind and body, and, ultimately, it
                assumes the rle of a chronic, organic, or incurable disease.

              And so, while in the acute stage of most diseases, nature is ordinarily able to
                cure the ailment more or less completely by her unaided efforts when the exciting
                cause is removed, it is altogether different in the realms of chronic or organic
                disease, for here, even after the original causes have apparently all been removed,
                health is usually regained only by a process of persistent cultivation; or it may be
                discovered that the disease has taken on the form of an obstinate, chronic, and
                incurable malady.
            

            
              THE FELLOWSHIP OF SUFFERING

              All the world has been baptized into the fellowship of physical suffering. Love and
                sympathy have often been conceived in pain and born of sorrow. Love is sometimes
                stronger than the protest of pain, as shown by the ease with which the mother-love
                so many times overrules pain and overrides suffering. The willingness to suffer for
                one's friend has come to be regarded as the token of loyalty, as the pledge of
                fidelity.

              But even though there be much of moral and spiritual good in our common experience
                of pain and suffering, nevertheless we should recognize that we receive this good
                not as a direct result of suffering, but rather in spite of suffering, because of
                the noble manner in which we may bring our characters to react to these infirmities
                of the flesh. There is probably no great good to be derived from pain and physical
                suffering which could not be obtained equally well, from the sensations  of pleasure and the impulses of health-- if we
                ourselves only possessed normal minds and healthy bodies.

              Endurance is essential to pleasure, and since pain ofttimes increases our
                endurance, it adds subsequently to the sum of our pleasure; and so, while we
                recognize the beneficent mission of pain and distress and nature's wise purpose in
                suffering, nevertheless, we would not prolong human misery or add to the sum of
                mortal suffering just because these unpleasant experiences have shown themselves
                able under certain circumstances to contribute indirectly to the development of a
                strong and noble character.

              We certainly do discover that pain disciplines the wayward, corrects the erring,
                subdues the proud, warns the headstrong, and makes wise the ignorant; it also
                generates social sympathy, even leading the rich who have suffered to have sometimes
                a fellow feeling for the poor who now suffer. But not always do we see this last
                salutary effect as the result of distress; men too quickly forget their suffering
                when the agony is past and, the pleasures of living are theirs once more to
                enjoy.

              And too, it must be remembered that nature shows little discrimination in the
                distribution of her penalties; whether the nights have been spent in dissipation and
                debauchery or whether they were spent in watching at the bedside of the sick and
                suffering child by a deserted mother; in the end, the penalties for over-exertion
                and loss of sleep are exacted by nature quite regardless of whether the sin was one
                of selfishness and for one's own pleasure, or for the good of another-- a labor of
                love.
            

            
              THE RESULTS OF SUFFERING

              The experience of long continued pain, the results of unusual sorrow or special
                suffering produce certain permanent effects upon the character of all who are thus
                afflicted-- they either sweeten or sour the disposition. Pain never fails to harden
                or to melt, suffering either closes or opens the heart. Pain makes the sufferer
                either more sympathetic or more callous towards the suffering of others. And so,
                although pain in and of itself is not a thing to be desired, it does sometimes  serve a valuable two-fold purpose of saving us from the
                dangers of which it is a warning, and, not infrequently, of making us all the better
                in spite of our suffering.

              Indeed, pain and suffering are somewhat like the bramble bush on either side of the
                road, hedging us up on both sides for the wise purpose of keeping us steadily moving
                forward in the middle of the highway of health and happiness. And so we see there
                come up for consideration many problems in connection with the purpose and mission
                of pain, and while our capacity for suffering is certainly more or less a matter of
                nervous susceptibility, we are compelled to recognize that a degree of our misery is
                also somewhat determined by our mental and moral attitude.

              The fact that we usually regard painful experiences as evil and pleasurable
                experiences as good has no doubt had much to do with determining the moral and
                spiritual value of pain and suffering in the lives of many persons.
            

            
              RACIAL SUFFERING

              There is much of pain and suffering which one is sometimes called upon to endure
                which is not entirely due to the individual's personal disobedience. We must
                recognize that, in this life, it is the weak as well as the wrong who are punished.
                If through a long line of miserable heredity we are born into this world physically
                or neurologically bankrupt, it is self evident that such physical weaklings are
                doomed to suffer more than their share of pain and misery. Even the fact that we are
                born a member of a certain race, the fact that our lives are forced to be spent in
                certain quarters of the earth, these, together with numerous other climatic, social,
                industrial, and other reasons conspire to determine more or less our degree of
                pleasure and suffering in this life.

              And so, while it is in a general way true that pain is the minister of justice to
                the individual, nevertheless, we certainly suffer many things as a result of the
                sins of past generations; and it is literally true, that it is the weak as well as
                the wicked who are called upon to suffer while passing through
                this so-called vale of tears.
            

            

            
              THE PERSONAL FACTOR IN PAIN

              Transitory pains are often caused by excessive or unnatural stimulations of some
                part of the body reflexly associated with the nerves which manifest the pain, while
                a natural and normal stimulation of these same bodily parts or organs would have
                resulted in pleasure. It is manifestly impossible always satisfactorily to
                differentiate between pain and pleasure. These two diverse and entirely different
                sensations are very close of kin, and as to whether a given stimulation or
                excitation of the nerve results in pain or pleasure, is to be entirely determined by
                the degree of intensity of the stimulation, as well as by the physical state of the
                nerve and the mental state of the individual.

              And so there is one thing certain about pain, whatever may be the exciting cause,
                both pain and pleasure are largely personal and relative. They do not as a rule
                represent definite and fixed states either mentally or physically. The personal,
                physical and psychical equation has much to do with determining the nature and
                degree of painful sensations.

              Shakespeare said, "one pain is lessened by another anguish." We seldom feel two
                pains at the same time. There is literally a limit to the amount of pain which the
                mind can recognize.
            

            
              PAIN A DANGER SIGNAL

              As we proceed, we shall find more and more that of all the sensations which we
                experience, pain is indeed our best friend, for it comes to be our very best
                teacher. We must get away from the old idea that pain is a thing always to be
                despised and lightly regarded; we must overcome the notion that pain is an arbitrary
                interference with the normal and natural pleasures of living. Pain is just as much a
                necessary part of life as all the methods of corrective discipline and the necessity
                for study are essential to the success of an educational institution. In fact, when
                we come to understand all the relationships of the case, we are compelled to look
                upon suffering as a friend and not as an enemy; that is, the mature results of
                suffering to the human race-- if suffering were properly interpreted and pain
                rationally understood-- would be positively for 
                
                  
                    Railroad Wreck, Result of Failure to Stop for the Red Light
                      Danger Signal
                  
                  
                    Courtesy of "The Modern Hospital" Surgical Operation,
                      Sometimes the Result of Failure to be Admonished by the Danger Signal of
                      Pain
                  
                  FIG. 8. THE RESULTS OF DISREGARDING "DANGER SIGNALS"
                
                 good and not for evil;
                and that such is the case is well shown by the common experience of the surgeon,
                who, while he recognizes suffering and constant pain in the abdomen as indicative of
                grave danger, also recognizes as far more grave and dangerous the sudden
                disappearance of that pain, which suggests to his mind an internal catastrophe--
                probably the rupture of some diseased organ and the consequent spreading of
                infection throughout the abdomen-- with its probable fatal termination. (Fig. 8.)

              Pain is indeed a danger signal-- an automatic and ever acting system of alarm wires
                which are everywhere stretched out over the vast domain of the physical body--
                always ready to catch the least suspicion of danger and disease and flash the
                warning in no uncertain terms to the brain, the citadel of intelligence and action,
                from whence, if the warning messages of pain are properly deciphered and
                comprehended, the orders may be dispatched to withdraw the body from the zone of
                danger or to reform the unwholesome practices which threaten disease or disaster.
                (Fig. 8.) And so, while pain is at first a
                warning signal of danger, it may later become, if unheeded, a disease indicator, a
                symptom of the very thing which it was originally designed to prevent and warn you
                away from. And, as has already been shown, false sensations of pain may arise from
                causes which are purely imaginary and wholly fictitious.
            

            
              THE PHYSICAL CONSCIENCE

              We are compelled to regard all ordinary sensations of fatigue and pain as friendly
                voices of warning. Pain in the long run, if properly understood, becomes a powerful
                pleasure promoter. Our unpleasant and disagreeably painful sensations may indeed be
                looked upon as constituting the "physical conscience" of the body, ever promptly,
                effectively, and persistently warning both the ignorant and the heedless against the
                folly of continuously disregarding the laws of nature. Painful sensations are indeed
                the pathetic prayer of the nerve for rest, relief, or recreation.

              Recont investigations as to the cause of suffering go to show  that a great deal of pain, or predisposition thereto, is occasioned by
                an unhealthy state of the blood stream. In fact, one authority has defined pain as
                the "prayer of the nerve for healthy blood." Even physical fatigue is largely due to
                the presence of these poisons in the blood, and there can be little question that
                actual pain in many instances is merely a sort of local protest of the body against
                the unnatural poisonous state of the blood which is circulating throughout the
                system.
            

            
              PAIN AN AUTOMATIC SPEED REGULATOR

              Painful sensations are nature's automatic speed regulator. We sometimes suffer
                merely because our body machine is proceeding through life at too great a pace. The
                one prominent characteristic of our present-day social and commercial life is its
                high tension. Everybody is keyed up to the last notch. People are living at a fierce
                pace, and the pressure-gauge of life registers all the while dangerously near the
                bursting point. Just as the smoke warns the trainmen of the hot box and serves
                immediately to bring his mind to the dangers attendant thereon, so pain is sometimes
                designed to admonish us of the dangers of frenzied and foolish living. No
                automobilist would dare heedlessly to drive his machine forward with a shrieking
                axle or a rattling wheel unless his journey was actually one of life and death; and
                yet how often we observe men and women forcing their body machines forward under the
                lash of unnatural stimulation, while they deaden the accompanying protest and
                warning of pain with strong drugs and powerful narcotics. Not infrequently these
                hygienic "high-speeders" come to look upon the ability either to experience or
                silence pain as a real virtue as an evidence of superior wisdom or unusual strength
                of character.

              While pain undoubtedly is greatly increased by morbidly fastening one's attention
                upon it; nevertheless, it is an experience which ultimately demands attention. And
                while we cannot expect that every passing headache or disagreeable bodily sensation
                will be allowed to drive us from our work; it is literally true that many serious
                accidents, grave mistakes, together with other business muddles and industrial
                blunders  would be avoided if men and women when
                suffering serious pain would stop work long enough to find out the exact cause of
                their pain, and put forth intelligent efforts to bring about its cure by removing
                the cause.

              Even in large factories and business establishments, it would result in a higher
                type of work and save much money in the end, if every employee with a headache or
                other serious pain were sent home each morning to get well. Certainly there are
                times and emergencies in life when one must disregard even the red danger signal of
                pain and drive on bravely and fearlessly regardless of the consequences, but it is a
                great mistake thus lightly to regard the warning cries of pain in the presence of
                the ordinary situations of life, or habitually to ignore the admonition of suffering
                until it is too late; until the once easily removed and quickly curable cause of the
                pain has become established as an incurable disease and life long cause of further
                pain and increased suffering, or results in a bona fide nervous breakdown.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Suffering is a friendly sentinel, a warning messenger and a corrective
                  monitor. Pain is the outcry of the physical conscience against nervous abuses and
                  disease dangers.

                 Pain commonly results from inheriting weak nerves, irritating the
                  brain or poisoning the nervous system, and is indicative of wrong habits,
                  disordered nerves or unwholesome surroundings.

                 Pain and suffering are nothing more nor less than transgression
                  transposed into penalty.

                 The voice of pain is reformatory in its purpose, while the language of
                  disease is corrective in its mission; hence the danger and folly of pain-killers
                  and patent poisons.

                 When long-standing pain must be relieved, try Nature's effective
                  remedies, such as heat, light, rest, massage, and an improved mental
                  attitude.

                 The purpose of affliction is to produce repentance and reform, hence
                  the interval between seedtime and harvest-- Nature's period of probation.

                 The corrective purpose of suffering is an ancient doctrine. Jeremiah
                  wrote: "Thine own wickedness shall correct thee and thine backslidings shall
                  reprove thee."

                 Within every violation or compromise of the laws of health  there are concealed the seeds of bodily disease,
                  nervous disorder, and physical suffering.

                 It is literally true in both the physical and mental realms that
                  "whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap."

                 Genuine pain is unvaryingly the effect of some definite cause--
                  physical or psychical. It is the handwriting of disease and distress on the walls
                  of the living temple.

                 We must learn how to translate the voice of pain into terms of
                  transgression and interpret the language of disease into acts of reform.

                 Acute diseases are ordinarily corrective and curative; while the
                  later stages of chronic disease are usually degenerative and destructive.

                 All the world has been baptized in the fellowship of physical
                  suffering. Love and sympathy are often conceived in pain and born in
                  sorrow.

                 Pain disciplines the wayward, corrects the erring, subdues the proud,
                  warns the headstrong, and makes wise the ignorant.

                 Nature is indiscriminating in her penalties; whether the nights are
                  spent in dissipation or at the bedside of the sick, the results of overexertion
                  are just the same.

                 Pain never fails to harden or melt. It either sweetens or sours the
                  disposition.

                 In this world it is the weak as well as the wrong who suffer. The
                  child born a neurological bankrupt is doomed by his weakness to suffer along with
                  the wicked.

                 Pain and pleasure are close of kin, and whether a given excitation
                  results in pain or pleasure is determined by the mental state, as well as by the
                  degree of stimulation.

                 Pain is a danger signal an automatic and ever acting system of alarm
                  wires, stretched out over the vast physical domain.

                 Pain and suffering constitute the physical conscience of the body.
                  Pain is the pathetic prayer of the nerve for rest, relief, or recreation.

                 Painful sensations are Nature's automatic speed regulator, and while
                  it may be temporarily ignored, it demands attention sooner or later.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER XVI SPECIAL FORMS OF
              NEURASTHENIA

            THE reader's attention has already been called to the fact that the
              clinical symptoms of neurasthenia are often largely confined to a single organ or
              group of organs thus giving rise to the so-called local or specialized forms of
              nervous exhaustion. We have previously classified these special forms of neurasthenia
              under five heads; viz.: cerebral, spinal, gastric, sexual, and traumatic.

            
              CEREBRAL NEURASTHENIA

              This is the form of nervous disorder in which the symptoms are practically confined
                to the head-- to sensations and pains in the brain, on the scalp and at the base of
                the brain. These patients are tortured by regular and characteristic headaches and
                all the other cranial pains so fully noted in a previous chapter. They frequently
                entertain grave fears of losing their minds. Their weakness or fatigue is more
                intellectual than physical, and the whole picture of the disease, including its
                hereditary background, is such as to strongly suggest psychasthenia. It is my
                opinion that further knowledge of this so-called cerebral neurasthenia will lead to
                a recognition that the majority of these cases are in reality true
                psychasthenias.
            

            
              SPINAL NEURASTHENIA

              Now we come to the nervous patient with a multitude of backaches, side aches, and
                numerous other pains including more or less of headache. These are the patients who
                have been diagnosed as having "irritable spinal columns," "nervous backs," and
                "neurasthenic spines." They frequently suffer from a minimum of mental or physical
                fatigue. They frequently undergo unnecessary surgical operations and submit  to course after course of futile treatments and
                manipulations in their earnest efforts to cure their "miserable backs." The great
                variety of symptoms connected with this particular form of the disease has also been
                fully noted.

              The essential point in the treatment of spinal neurasthenia is to promote the
                circulation of the blood throughout the spinal region by means of alternate hot and
                cold applications in conjunction with massage. In many of these cases, the spinal
                nerve centers are literally starved from lack of blood which has been so largely
                diverted into the dilated vessels and over-distended viscera of the abdomen and
                pelvis. In these cases, the proper treatment and cure of this stagnant circulation
                of the abdomen, by the wearing of a suitable abdominal support, and other methods,
                will be found a great help in bringing about the cure of these spinal
                neurasthenics.
            

            
              GASTRIC NEURASTHENIA

              Now we come to a highly interesting group of human sufferers. The term dyspepsia
                has certainly been made to cover a multitude of sufferings on the part of the
                patient as well as a vast realm of indifference and ignorance on the part of the
                physician. It used to be the custom to call all stomach and digestive troubles,
                dyspepsia. Nowadays the physician recognizes that when there is pain in the stomach
                there is something definitely wrong with the digestive machinery, and a painstaking
                examination usually discloses the presence of ulcers, gallstones, or a chronic
                appendicitis, and so these surgical maladies are now forever removed from the realms
                of so-called dyspepsia.

              Having removed the real digestive diseases from the classification of stomach
                disorders, about all we have left to sail under the flag of dyspepsia is "nervous
                indigestion," "gastric neurasthenia," with its associated chronic constipation and
                its consequental general autointoxication. In my practice, the diagnosis of
                indigestion and dyspepsia is practically limited to these nervous disturbances of
                the stomach and intestines, where no real lesion can be detected and which almost
                invariably are to be found in those patients who present the unmistakable clinical
                picture of gastric neurasthenia.

              

              The treatment of the gastric neurasthene is largely psychotherapeutic. Efforts must
                be made to improve the general circulation and increase the nerve tonus. A liberal,
                fairly easy digested diet must be prescribed. It is imperative that the accompanying
                constipation be relieved-- this is the most important part of the physical
                treatment. The real cure consists in the elimination of the patient's psychic
                dyspepsia and this is accomplished by wise and persistent mental training carried
                forward to that point where the patient is able fully to recognize the psychic basis
                and nervous origin of his manifold and distressing symptoms.
            

            
              SEXUAL NEURASTHENIA

              We are constantly meeting with cases of neurasthenia in which the larger part of
                both mental and the physical symptoms and complaints are referable to the generative
                mechanism and the sex life of the individual, and, following the rule established in
                our clinical classification of these nervous disorders, we naturally call this group
                of morbid sufferers by a term indicative of the chief symptoms of which they
                complain.

              First and foremost among the sex neurasthenes our attention and sympathy is
                directed to that pathetic group of sufferers from so-called female weaknesses--
                those dejected victims of female complaints-- and to that equally pitiable group of
                young men, or even middle aged men, who have been foolishly led into the erroneous
                belief that some small perversion of a physiological function in youth can continue
                to cause serious symptoms ten or twenty years later. This group of patients have
                long been a rich field of exploitation on the part of both the quack doctor and the
                patent medicine vender.

              When anything is actually wrong with the human generative system, it certainly
                needs to be attended to; but in sex neurasthenia there is a well-defined tendency to
                seize upon the slightest pretense-- the most trifling displacement or the slightest
                symptom-- and then to make a pathological mountain out of this insignificant mole
                hill of disease. There is certainly no form of neurasthenia in which the patient can
                be so literally "scared to death," as the form" under present discussion.

              

              Just as the gastric neurasthene is always complaining of a dilated or prolapsed
                stomach, the sexual neurasthene has the mind ever focused on the reproductive
                organs, always alarmed at some new appearing symptom or the aggravation of some old
                complaint.

              In the case of the woman, the origin of this difficulty may be accounted for by the
                increased impressionability associated with the physical and nervous disturbances
                which almost unfailingly accompany menstruation. As in other forms of the disease
                the neurasthenic mind seizes upon that which is perfectly normal and wholly
                physiological and successfully twists and perverts it into a health destroying
                worry.
            

            
              INFLUENCE OF ADOLESCENCE.

              The period of puberty ushers in a marked change of mentality, more especially on
                the part of boys, and as a result of the gross ignorance which is so often allowed
                to prevail, certain physical practices and mental habits may be set in operation at
                this time which will effectually undermine the nervous vitality and so distort the
                mental viewpoint of life, as effectually to lay the foundation for a slowly
                developing case of sexual neurasthenia.

              It is the belief of many eminent neurologists that early sex experiences,
                disturbances of the affection, the arousal of emotional fears, and numerous social
                shocks (many or all of which may be successfully suppressed) are able so to permeate
                the consciousness of later years-- to envelop the mind-- to obtain such a morbid
                domination over the intellect, as to result in the subsequent production of a well
                marked and obstinate case of sexual neurasthenia.

              It is a blot upon the fair name of our Christian civilization that our laws and
                legal regulations have been so lax as to permit the medical fakers to prey
                unhindered upon the sex fears and social ignorance of the youthful neurasthene. Many
                a wrecked career-- yes, even cases of suicide and insanity-- are directly traceable
                to the depressing and demoralizing influence of these quacks, with their alarming
                literature and their suggestive newspaper advertisements.

              

              While this is not the proper place to enter into a full discussion of the sex
                hygiene of the adolescent youth, it must be recognized that such instruction given
                in a sane and sensible manner at the proper time and by the proper persons, is
                indispensable to the prevention of a further increase in that downcast and dejected
                army of sexual neurasthenics.-

              I have seen many of these cases both of young men and young women who had worried
                themselves almost to death. They had despaired of marriage and looked forward to
                either a life-long invalidism or to an unhappy sojourn behind asylum bars; all
                because of some trifling youthful indiscretion or because of some wholly natural and
                normal sex phenomenon, which, because of their dense ignorance, had aroused a host
                of alarming fears in their minds, leading them to believe they were victims of some
                insidious, devitalizing disease, when, in reality, their experience was wholly
                natural and normal; not different at all from that of all their ancestors before
                them, and not at all unlike that of the average man or woman of the present.

              What a crime against young manhood and womanhood to permit the tragic hour of the
                unfolding of the sex mysteries to overtake and find their minds in a state of
                unenlightened fear! What a travesty on modern education that the physiological
                phenomenon invariably associated with the bud of early manhood and the bloom of
                approaching womanhood should be allowed to overtake and find the adolescent youth in
                such a state of abject biological ignorance that the entire intellect and nervous
                system is so shocked and demoralized the nervous equilibrium so disturbed-- that the
                foundations are thus early laid for the later appearance and development of a well
                defined sexual neurasthenia !
            

            
              SOCIAL TRANSGRESSION

              I am well aware that not all of the sexual neurasthenia of the present generation
                has its origin in the failure to teach sex hygiene to the adolescent youth. No
                practicing physician can remain blind to the fact that intemperance and
                prostitution, with their resultant venereal miseries and diseases, are, directly and
                   indirectly responsible for many a case of so-called
                sex neurasthenia. The medical man is fully aware that the long continued abuse,
                misuse, and over excitation of such a highly organized and delicately adjusted
                mechanism as that of the human reproductive system, cannot fail-- at least in the
                cases of certain nervously predisposed individuals-- to bring on the symptoms of a
                sexual neurasthenia, or to precipitate some sort of a neurological catastrophe.

              Many instances of this unfortunate nervous malady are also brought to the surface
                by certain incompatibilities of married life. These difficulties are sometimes very
                distressing to the parties themselves, and highly perplexing to the physician in his
                efforts to give the advice which will prove best for all concerned.

              Another result of this sex ignorance and social prudery is the production of those
                unfortunate individuals with homosexual tendencies. They exist in far greater
                numbers than is commonly suspected. Cases of this sort are constantly coming to the
                notice of the physician who sees a large number of "nervous" patients.
            

            
              DEMENTIA PRAECOX

              The milder and more common forms of sexual neurasthenia which are so largely
                amenable to treatment, must not be confounded or confused with that more serious and
                grave mental disorder known as dementia praecox which also seems to owe its origin
                and existence to some sort of derangement or perversion of the secretory workings of
                the sex glands.

              Dementia praecox is in reality a form of insanity. It usually appears early in life
                and is characterized by a peculiar enfeeblement of mind, emotional indifference,
                weakness of judgment, flightiness, automatic obedience, impulsive actions,
                affectations, unemotional laughter, hallucinations, and sometimes delusions of
                either a depressed or grandiose nature.

              About fifteen per cent of all the insane patients admitted to our asylums belong to
                this group, and in the vast majority of cases the disease makes its appearance
                before the twenty-fifth year. The two sexes are about equally liable to the  disorder and heredity is noted in seventy per cent.
                Physical stigmata of degeneration are also frequently observed. The disorder not
                infrequently makes its appearance following some severe acute disease such as
                typhoid or scarlet fever. The prognosis is unfavorable, most cases ending in
                permanent dementia, but a few do recover.
            

            
              TREATMENT OF SEX NEURASTHENIA

              While the general treatment of neurasthenia will be discussed in later chapters, it
                will be in order to give some special instruction at this time regarding the
                management of the particular form of nervous disorder under consideration.

              The alternate hot and cold sitz bath, alternate hot fomentations and ice rubs to
                the spine, together with other general hydriatic tonic procedures, electricity and
                massage, are all of more or less help in the successful treatment of sexual
                neurasthenia. But the most important of all remedial measures is the proper and
                persistent employment of such psychotherapeutic methods as will enlighten and
                strengthen the patient's mind, and otherwise so change his viewpoint as effectually
                to destroy the dominance and tyranny of his distorted sex thoughts and perverted sex
                feelings.

              I find it necessary to sit down with these patients by the hour and in a simple and
                painstaking manner teach them, unfold to them, the simple, beautiful and fascinating
                biological truths associated with the science of reproduction. These patients all
                stand in need of being instructed in the anatomy, physiology, hygiene, and
                significance of the reproductive mechanism and functions. It is absolutely necessary
                to destroy ignorance and banish fear if we hope to contribute anything to the
                liberation of the minds and the upbuilding of the bodies of these unfortunate
                sufferers.
            

            
              TRAUMATIC NEURASTHENIA

              This is the form of nervous prostration which results from railway accidents,
                automobile smash-ups and other tragic accidents. This form of nervous disorder may
                also be precipitated by sudden and violent trauma, such as sudden death in  the family, business reverses, divorces, and other
                experiences associated with keen regret, profound worry, and unusual anxiety.

              The treatment in general of this as well as of the other specialized forms of
                neurasthenia noted in this chapter will be duly considered in later chapters.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The special clinical forms of neurasthenia are cerebral, spinal,
                  gastric, sexual and traumatic.

                 In cerebral neurasthenia the symptoms are largely confined to
                  characteristic headaches and other cranial symptoms.

                 In spinal neurasthenia the patient's complaints are largely limited to
                  the spinal column-- tenderness, backache, sideaches, etc.

                 Gastric neurasthenia is nervous dyspepsia, and is usually associated
                  with chronic constipation and autointoxication.

                 Chronic dyspepsia is usually the result of ulcers, gallstones, or
                  appendicitis on the one hand; or of nervous indigestion-- gastric neurasthenia--
                  on the other hand.

                 The cure of gastric neurasthenia lies in the physical treatment of
                  constipation and the mental cure of psychic dyspepsia.

                 In nervous exhaustion when the chief symptoms and complaints are
                  referable to the reproductive system, the disorder is called sexual
                  neurasthenia.

                 Those patients who chronically suffer from "female complaints," are
                  usually sexual neurasthenics. They are good patrons of both the quack and the
                  patent medicine vender.

                 Another form of this disorder is the youth or man of middle age who
                  morbidly fears that his life has been ruined by some youthful physiological
                  error.

                 Much of this disorder is due to the gross ignorance regarding those
                  natural phenomena associated with the reproductive organs and which make their
                  appearance at puberty.

                 Failure to teach sex hygiene at the right time and in the right way,
                  as well as hereditary predisposition, is largely responsible for many cases of
                  sexual neurasthenia.

                 It is a travesty on Christian civilization that, through ignorance
                  and fear, Nature's adolescent developments, menstruation, etc., should result in
                  such shocks as to upset the nervous system.

                 Sex neurasthenia is also produced by intemperance, and prostitution
                  with its venereal miseries and diseases.

                 Abnormality, perversions, and suppression of sex  functions are responsible for a large amount of nervousness and other
                  troubles both inside and outside of wedlock.

                 Dementia Praecox is a form of insanity supposed to have its origin in
                  some perversion of the sex secretions.

                 The special treatment of sex neurasthenia consists in the application
                  of suitable physical measures in conjunction with persistent educational
                  psychotherapy.

                 Traumatic neurasthenia is that form of nervousness which is
                  precipitated by railroad accidents, automobile smash-ups and sudden business
                  reverses, death, etc.
              
            
          


          
            
            CHAPTER XVII PSYCHASTHENIA OR TRUE BRAIN
              FAG

            WE NOW come to the study of one of the more newly classified
              nervous disorders-- psychasthenia. While all psychasthenes are more or less
              neurasthenic, and many neurasthenes are more or less psychasthenic, nevertheless, as
              we have previously noted, there is a decided clinical difference between these two
              nervous conditions.

            
              WHAT IS PSYCHASTHENIA?

              Many unfortunate individuals are condemned to go through life with a functionally
                crippled nervous system. They are fore-doomed to suffer more or less from mental
                fatigue-- brain fag-- all of which is due to the laws of human inheritance; it is
                nothing more or less than a case of the father's eating sour grapes and the
                children's teeth being set on edge.

              The psychasthene is able often to comfort himself with the flattering knowledge
                that he travels in exceedingly good company, for it is a fact that a very large
                number of the world's geniuses in science, art, and letters, have been more or less
                psychasthenic. Many individuals who manifest exceptional control of the mind along
                some particular line, are found to be greatly lacking in brain control as regards
                the common experiences of their everyday life.

              I do not for one moment admit that psychasthenia is the gigantic disorder which its
                discoverer, Janet, claims it to be. This French authority would lead us to believe
                that psychasthenia embraces almost every sort of nervous disturbance ranging from
                simple neurasthenia up to melancholia and arrant madness. I look upon psychasthenia
                as an hereditary affair-- as an hereditary weakness in the matter of brain control
                and emotional reaction. Of course, I also recognize that overwork,  emotional stress, and intoxication, together with all
                of the so-called neurasthenic factors, may serve to develop and accentuate this
                hereditary psychasthenic predisposition.

              Many a psychasthenia does not appear in the individual's experience until the
                nervous system is subjected to some extraordinary strain. On this point, Dubois
                remarks: 
                  Unquestionably we often see sick people who tell us that they once enjoyed good
                    health, and trace the beginning of their illness back to a certain date. But if
                    we take the trouble, by lengthy and frequent conversations, to scrutinize the
                    mental past of these patients, and to analyze their previous state of mind, we
                    find no difficulty in recognizing that, long before the development of the
                    actual trouble, the mental stigmata of neuroses were traceable, and the event
                    that brought on the acute symptoms was only the drop of water that made the
                    vessel overflow.
                
            

            
              THE EMOTIONAL THRESHOLD

              Psychasthenia is, in reality, a lowering of the emotional threshold. It differs
                from ordinary neurasthenia not only in the fact of its more uniform hereditary
                origin, but also in the fact that it is more largely concerned with purely psychic
                and emotional influences as regards its exciting causes. A recent writer, in
                emphasizing this distinction has well said: 
                  In ordinary neurasthenia the exciting causes are the exceedingly frequent
                    occasions of grief, fear, and anger, which are perfectly real but so slight that
                    only the abnormally sensitive brain is harmfully affected by them. In
                    psychasthenia the exciting cause of disturbance is merely the mental
                    representation of a cause for emotion which for the patient does not exist at
                    all, but which would be amply sufficient to affect a normal brain if it did
                    exist.
                  Thus a psychasthenic girl passing a house sees some glasses of jelly exposed on
                    a window sill. The thought comes, "Some one might put poison into that jelly;
                    what if I should do it?" The mere thought provokes such a feeling of horror that
                    she goes home crying. A few weeks later, she takes part in a cooking-school
                    exercise and is vividly reminded of the ideas concerning the jelly, but keeps
                    control until one of the children who has eaten what she helped to prepare
                    begins to complain of illness. Then the mere idea, which she knows to be utterly
                    false, of having put poison into the food provokes a  violent outburst of grief. All normal persons have some emotional
                    reaction to mental representations which they know to be purely imaginary, as in
                    reading fiction or seeing a play. The theatregoer, the novel reader, the
                    daydreamer, may really tremble, shed real tears, or contract his muscles in
                    righteous anger, but he restrains himself and quickly recovers emotional
                    equilibrium. Not so the psychasthene. His emotional centers are so oversensitive
                    that a purely accidental image of himself as suffering a violent death,
                    committing a dreadful crime or being insane arouses an intense horror. The
                    intensity of the experience fixes it in memory; it becomes associated with
                    almost everything, and the harmful emotion becomes habitual. The important fact
                    in such a case is not the nature of the idea, or how it came into consciousness
                    or whether or not it has been repressed into the cellar of subconsciousness;
                    these may have some importance; but the great fact is the physical condition of
                    the cortex which permits such excessive and uncontrolled reactions.
                

              In many respects the psychasthenes behave and reason much like a child. They are
                affected by external influences and react to internal impulses in a manner which
                indicates that their viewpoint is that of the easily upset and quickly alarmed
                mentality of the child mind.
            

            
              NEURASTHENIA AND PSYCHASTHENIA

              To still further make clear the difference between neurasthenia and psychasthenia,
                I may say that those influences of irritation, stress, and strain, which would, in a
                fairly normal individual, result in producing a case of true neurasthenia, will, in
                the case of these susceptible and hereditarily predisposed individuals, produce a
                genuine case of psychasthenia. The perplexing feature of such cases of so-called
                acquired psychasthenia (in reality, hereditary) is that in the earlier stages they
                are accompanied by nearly all of the commonly observed symptoms which belong to
                neurasthenia. On the other hand, psychasthenics are far more likely to manifest
                symptoms which are suggestive of more serious mental disorders than neurasthenia;
                and, therefore, as a clinical disorder, psychasthenia comes thus to occupy a place
                between the less serious neurasthenias on the one hand and the more serious
                hysterias, phobias, melancholias, and manias on the other hand.
            

            

            
              ACTIVE AND LATENT FORMS

              The so-called congenital psychasthenia usually makes its appearance at or around
                puberty. The child is spoken of as delicate, nervous and timid; while the acquired
                form (I prefer the term latent) may not appear until the patient is well passed
                middle life, and then only after some prolonged and unusual period of hard work and
                over-worry. Many a business or professional man experiences his first real attack of
                neurasthenia or psychasthenia when between forty and fifty years of age. Others are
                able to postpone this catastrophe until after retiring from business and then, with
                nothing to think about but themselves, they quickly succumb to their latent,
                hereditary nervous tendencies, and with amazing rapidity develop into full fledged
                neurasthenes or psychasthenes.

              At the present time I have a patient fifty-five years of age who has until recently
                been at the head of a large business enterprise. Now he has retired, and although
                for twenty-five years he was threatened off and on with nervous breakdown which he
                always successfully avoided, now he is the victim of a most distressing
                psychasthenia. His mental fatigue terribly annoys him, his appetite is gone, his
                sleep disturbed, his initiative is slipping, and it is little wonder that he
                complains that his mental powers are "breaking up," and that he gravely fears
                insanity. And yet his ailment is nothing more than this acquired (latent) form of
                psychasthenia.
            

            
              EMINENT PSYCHASTHENES

              The thought must not for one moment be entertained that our psychasthenes are
                recruited from the ranks of hysterics, and other people of mediocre mental caliber.
                As previously remarked, they are frequently found among the most intellectual
                classes; and many of these great minds have been so successful in the mastery of
                their mental and nervous weaknesses that they have been able entirely to surmount
                their hereditary tendencies and otherwise to overcome and repair their loss of nerve
                control.

              Sir Francis Galton, the eminent British scientist-- the father of our infant
                science of eugenics-- and who lived well beyond  four
                score years in the full possession of his mental and physical powers, meanwhile
                turning out a vast volume of work, was evidently predisposed to psychasthenia, for,
                concerning one of his attacks or breakdowns, he says: 
                  I suffered from intermittent pulse and a variety of brain symptoms of an
                    alarming kind. A mill seemed to be working inside my head; I could not banish
                    obsessing ideas; at times I could hardly read a book, and found it painful to
                    look at even a printed page. Fortunately I did not suffer from sleeplessness,
                    and my digestion failed but little. Even a brief interval of rest did me good,
                    and it seemed as if a dose of it might wholly restore me. It would have been
                    madness to continue the kind of studious life that I had been leading. I had
                    been much too zealous, had worked too irregularly and in too many directions,
                    and had done myself serious harm.
                
            

            
              AN ANCESTRAL LEGACY

              Psychasthenes are like poets-- born, not made. Nevertheless, it must not be
                supposed that every one who is afflicted with worry, fears, and obsessions, is a
                victim of psychasthenia. On the other hand, when not one but all of these imperative
                moods of thought coupled with enfeebled will power and accompanied by more or less
                brain fag-- I say, when all this infernal group-- manifest themselves comparatively
                early in life, without adequate cause, and are sufficiently developed as seriously
                to interfere with and lessen one's usefulness, then I think it is safe to diagnose
                such a condition of affairs as psychasthenia.

              And so psychasthenia must be looked upon more or less as a part of one's ancestry.
                It is some sort of defect in hereditary evolution, and, therefore, overtakes us
                without our will or leave. Our personal responsibility is only concerned in and by
                those methods and measures which on the one hand tend to make the situation worse,
                and on the other, to assist in overcoming nature's handicap, thus enabling the
                patient to make a creditable showing with an otherwise abnormal nervous mechanism
                and a crippled nervous control.
            

            
              PSYCHASTHENIC FATIGUE

              The psychasthene is the individual who was "born tired," and who has remained more
                or less tired throughout life. A  careful medical
                examination will differentiate between the "weariness" of psychic fatigue and
                numerous other physical and parasitic maladies, such as hook-worm disease, etc.

              Many psychasthenes who are born and reared in the country get along fairly well.
                Those who are unfortunate enough to grow up in a great city find it much more
                difficult to live happy, useful, and self-supporting lives. It is largely from this
                class of neurologically disinherited individuals, that the common "ne'er-do-wells"
                of modern society are recruited. The majority of our inveterate and incurable tramps
                are affected with this psychasthenic taint; as are also those scions of certain
                aristocratic and wealthy families who are now and then so strikingly attacked with
                the wanderlust. It would thus appear that the term "psychasthenia"
                might be pressed into service for the purpose of describing certain strata of modern
                society which are otherwise commonly and vulgarly called "lazy."

              It is the handicapped individual suffering from an extreme case of congenital
                psychasthenia, who, when he finds himself unable to compete for a livelihood with
                his fellows, does not hesitate to turn criminal and begin to pillage and plunder
                society. These represent the brightest, keenest, and the shrewdest of our criminal
                classes, and are in marked and striking contrast with the feeble-minded criminals
                who compose by far the larger part of the inmates of our penal institutions.
            

            
              PSYCHASTHENIC SYMPTOMS

              In addition to the characteristic mental fatigue of psychasthenia, the patient
                suffers from a variety of mental disturbances, many of which are identical with and
                common to the sufferings of the neurasthenic. Practically, the chief complaint is an
                incapacity for doing things, coupled with an ever present over-attention to
                everything connected with one's thinking, living, and working.

              The psychasthene spends the larger part of his mental effort and nervous energy in
                watching himself and otherwise trying to help carry on those varied mental and
                physical processes which nature designed to be automatically executed. In this  way his energies are almost wholly consumed in useless
                channels-- in efforts which are not only unnecessary, but which are highly harmful
                to the healthy and normal workings of both the psychological and physiological
                processes and mechanisms of the human organism. It is no wonder that they tire so
                easily when we pause to consider the vast amount of useless effort put forth by
                these meddlesome methods of interference with nature's automatic routine.
            

            
              PSYCHASTHENIC INTROSPECTION

              All introspective patients are not necessarily psychasthenic, but all psychasthenes
                are introspective. They watch all the workings of the mental machinery and the
                physical processes with the eagle eye of a trained detective. They are incessantly
                spying upon themselves. They watch the minutest details of their daily work, only to
                criticise their best efforts and worry over the results. When they engage in play or
                indulge in recreation, they watch so closely for the expected rest and relief, that
                they effectually spoil and destroy all the good that might possibly have come from
                their otherwise beneficial diversions. They watch their stomachs so closely as to
                lose their appetite and spoil their digestion. It is a physiological fact that no
                half-way normal self-respecting stomach will continue to do a good grade of work, if
                its owner insists on constantly watching its operations with a suspicious eye.

              These patients even try to watch themselves sleep, and of course, there can be but
                one result-insomnia. And even when the attention is relaxed sufficiently to permit
                sleep to overtake them, their slumbers are more or less disturbed by nightmares and
                other vivid dreams, all of which are largely born of the over-anxious and
                apprehensive watchfulness during their waking hours. And so it is little wonder that
                they waken in the morning unrested and unrefreshed.
            

            
              OTHER PSYCHASTHENIC EAR-MARKS

              The psychasthene is especially prone to worry about his work. He is always going
                back to see if things are done right; trying the door again to see if it is locked;
                getting up out  of bed and going down stairs to see if
                the cat was put out or the dog was let in. A sort of generalized dread seems to
                possess the mind-- a sort of chronic over-attention to things that need no
                attention-- a sort of short-circuiting of the nervous forces to the performance of
                useless work, as in the case of the dynamo, when a short circuit so diverts the
                current that instead of passing outside for the performance of useful work, it is
                dissipated within the generator, thus deranging the functions of the machine and
                interfering with both the quantity and quality of its work.

              Psychasthenics frequently appear to be well nourished-- in good flesh. It is such
                cases that are mistakenly diagnosed neurasthenia, and are started out on long walks,
                horseback riding, playing golf, etc. Such mistaken treatment only leads to early and
                utter collapse to the complete discouragement of the patient and to the utter
                bewilderment of friends and family. These patients are not like the mild neurasthene
                who is fatigued all day but who can dance all night.

              The psychasthene is usually highly impressionable, more or less timid, hesitating,
                lacking in initiative, an odd genius, usually a dreamer, often over-scrupulous,
                unfailingly exaggerating the importance of his personal shortcomings, all the while
                extremely irritable, very changeable in humor and more or less despondent-- in rare
                cases and at times, even mildly melancholic.
            

            
              HISTORY OF A PSYCHASTHENE

              Perhaps I cannot do better in summing up the symptoms of psychasthenia than to give
                the history, the story of a judge, forty-three years of age, as recited by himself:
                  
                  I have always had a delicate nervous system. My mother was a very nervous
                    woman. I had a nervous breakdown the second year in high school and another near
                    the end of my college work. I have never been in good health since, and have not
                    had a really good night's sleep in twenty years. Sometimes while trying a case,
                    my breathing seems to stop, my heart flutters and I am tremendously alarmed. The
                    more I think about myself, I have found, the worse I get. At such times, if I
                    can retire to my chambers and lie down for ten or fifteen minutes, I am
                    better.
                  
                  One of my worst troubles is that I never know when I have done things. When I
                    address an envelope I look at it a dozen times, and if I should drop it in the
                    box, I would worry all day over whether I had put a stamp on it or not.
                  I live in constant fear of losing my position because of my mental infirmities.
                    I am positively childish, silly, and even superstitious over some things. I
                    understand it all and I argue with myself about it, but it does no good. I sign
                    a decree of the court and in ten seconds I am in doubt as to whether I have
                    signed the document or not. This anxiety and worry is literally driving me crazy
                    if I am not already crazy. Of course, I say nothing to my associates about my
                    troubles, but I am sure they know that something is wrong.
                  I am a temperate, God-fearing man, have always led a regular and upright life,
                    and can't understand why all these troubles should plague me.
                  Now, Doctor, I have a score of other troubles I want to tell you, but before I
                    go any further, I want to ask you-- and I want you to tell me the truth-- have
                    you ever had another patient just like me? Am I losing my mind or what is the
                    trouble, and is there any help for a man in such a terrible state?
                
            

            
              TREATMENT OF PSYCHASTHENIA

              The treatment in general for the neurasthenic states will be fully discussed in
                later chapters; but it will be in place to give certain special suggestions at this
                time, especially in regard to those points where the physical treatment of
                psychasthenia must differ so radically from that of neurasthenia.

              Some time ago I saw in consultation a psychasthenic-- a woman thirty-two years of
                age-- who had been practically confined to her bed for seven years, diagnosed as a
                neurasthenic by numerous physicians and treated after approved methods for
                neurasthenia in numerous sanitariums, all with a net result that she was getting
                worse, or at least no better, and with the experience that all forms of physical
                treatment, including hydrotherapy, electricity, and massage, had never failed
                greatly to aggravate her sufferings.

              Such patients possess little or no power to react to the stimulus of physiologic
                therapeutics. In dealing with nervous disorders, it must be borne in mind that the
                nerve cell does not act-- it only reacts; therefore, in profound
                psychasthenia,  at first, our remedial efforts must be
                wholly limited to psychotherapy. After a period of nine months during which the
                patient was subjected to a thorough going psychotherapeutic regime, it was possible
                gradually to begin the employment of much needed physiological procedures,
                consisting of a graduated course of electricity, massage, and hydriatic
                measures.

              While the details of further treatment will be fully noted in Part II of this work,
                it will not be out of place to say that the secret of success in the practical cure
                of these neurologically incurable patients, consists in a thorough going and
                protracted course of mental training which so changes the patient's viewpoint, that
                he is able successfully to argue with himself and thus by and through his own
                efforts actually to convince himself that his symptoms, sufferings, and manifold
                vagaries, have no real foundation in fact beyond the presence of his hereditary
                weakened nervous system. And so, while it is often impossible entirely to obliterate
                all trace of their ailment, nevertheless, they are usually so greatly improved
                within a year or eighteen months-- if they faithfully and intelligently follow
                directions-- that many come to look upon themselves as practically cured.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 While all psychasthenes are more or less neurasthenic, and all
                  neurasthenes are more or less psychasthenic, nevertheless they are entirely
                  different disorders.

                 Psychasthenia is an hereditary form of mental fatigue or brain fag. It
                  is characterized by weakness of brain control and emotional reaction.

                 Many of the world's great men of art, science, and letters have been
                  more or less psychasthenic.

                 In psychasthenia the threshold of emotion has been greatly lowered and
                  the patient in many ways seems to exercise a childish viewpoint.

                 The psychasthene reacts to his imaginary vagaries, just as fully and
                  violently as if they were actually true.

                 The stress and strain that would produce neurasthenia in the average
                  person produces psychasthenia in certain hereditarily predisposed
                  individuals.

                 Psychasthenia lies between the less serious neurasthenias and the more
                  serious hysterias and melancholias.

                 Psychasthenia may be classified as congenital or hereditary, and
                  acquired or latent.

                

                 Latent psychasthenia often does not appear until the stress of middle
                  life or even after its victim has retired from business.

                 Psychasthenes are like poets, born, not made. All classes of society
                  are afflicted, from the highest to the lowest.

                 When various phobias are early manifested accompanied by enfeebled
                  will power and brain fag, it is probably psychasthenia, not neurasthenia.

                 Psychasthenics are "born tired" and seldom get over it. They get
                  along better in the country than in the city.

                 Many of our common ne'er-do-wells, tramps, and aristocratic victims
                  of the wanderlust are in reality psychasthenics.

                 Many of the brightest and shrewdest of our criminals are
                  psychasthenic in contrast with the larger, dull and feeble-minded class of
                  criminals.

                 The chief symptoms of psychasthenia are incapacity for doing things,
                  coupled with over-attention connected with all phases of living and
                  working.

                 The psychasthene squanders his nervous energy trying to do things
                  that nature would better accomplish without his assistance.

                 All introspective patients are not psychasthenic, but all
                  psychasthenes are introspective.

                 They are never certain that anything is done right and so go over the
                  same ground again and again, thus dissipating energy like the short circuiting of
                  a dynamo.

                 The psychasthene is impressionable, timid, hesitating,
                  over-scrupulous, irritable, changeable, and more or less despondent.

                 The psychasthene lives in constant fear of losing his position, the
                  respect of his associates, his memory, and not infrequently his mind.

                 The treatment of psychasthenia has many things in common with that of
                  neurasthenia, except that the psychasthene does not react so well to physical
                  treatments.

                 In the earlier stages of grave psychasthenia, treatment must be
                  limited to suitable psychotherapeutic measures.
              
            
          

          

            

            CHAPTER XVIII HYSTERIA-- THE MASTER
              IMITATOR

            OF THE seven nervous states noted in the first chapter, we have
              already considered four-- chronic worry, neurasthenoidia, neurasthenia, and
              psychasthenia-- and now come to the consideration of the fifth-- hysteria-- while
              hypochondria and melancholia yet remain.

            
              HYSTERIA IN OLDEN TIMES

              There is little doubt in the minds of medical men, but that a large part of the
                so-called "demoniacal possession" of the middle ages, would today promptly be
                diagnosed as major hysteria; while the remainder would be regarded as some degree of
                insanity. Some of our present day hysterics, had they lived in other centuries,
                would have been in grave danger of being burned for witchcraft.

              In past ages many a great religious movement has had its origin in the revelations
                and contortions of some earnest and conscientious, but manifestly hysterical, woman
                with strong religious tendencies. It is only in recent years, that we have come to
                understand the relations of hysteria to religion, insanity,and to some of the
                far-reaching national upheavals of past ages.
            

            
              WHAT IS HYSTERIA?

              Hysteria in one form or another is one of the most common of nervous diseases. Its
                name hysteria suggests the older and erroneous notion which attributed the origin of
                this disease to some disorder in the female reproductive organs. This belief was
                long ago shown to be without foundation, and it is now known that men are subject to
                hysteria just the same as women.

              

              Janet says: 
                  Hysteria belongs to a group of mental diseases caused by cerebral
                    insufficiency; it is especially characterized by moral symptoms, the principal
                    one being a weakening of the faculty of psychological synthesis.
                

              The physician of olden times looked upon hysteria as a malady that was largely
                feigned; as a fictitious sort of disease performance on the part of certain sorts of
                nervous and emotional women. Men were not supposed to have this disorder and met
                with but scant courtesy at the physician's hands, or else they were looked upon as
                being "effeminate." Even some modern authorities call neurasthenia a man's disease,
                and hysteria a woman's disease.

              It is going to be neither a small nor easy task concisely to define hysteria for
                the layman; in fact, hysteria is a disease about which we doctors disagree probably
                more than about any other common disorder to which human flesh is heir;
                nevertheless, I am disposed to attempt to define this interesting and unique nervous
                malady-- at least I will give the reader a definition of this disturbance in
                accordance with my understanding. Hysteria is some sort of disorder in the
                personality, occurring in hereditarily predisposed individuals who are highly
                suggestible on the one hand, and who possess a small degree of self-control on the
                other. And just here is our difficulty in understanding hysteria-- it has to do with
                personality and that is a subject which none of us know much about. An eminent
                French physician once said that a definition of hysteria had never been given and
                never would be.

              I may further say that hysteria is a mental state-- possibly a disease-- largely
                due to cerebral insufficiency, manifesting itself in so many ways and producing so
                many and diverse symptoms as to impersonate almost every known form of human
                illness. It is certainly true that a diseased and uncontrolled imagination plays a
                large part in the cause and conduct of this perplexing disorder.

              Briefly summarized then, hysteria is a nervous disorder occurring chiefly in women;
                characterized by lack of control over the emotions and certain physical acts, by
                morbid self-consciousness,  by exaggeration of all
                sensory impressions, and by an extraordinary ability to simulate the symptoms of
                numerous diseases, and thus to impersonate a host of minor and major
                disturbances.
            

            
              IMAGINATION AS AN ACTOR

              Human imagination is a marvelous actor. The ability to impersonate, the power to
                think and feel and act as another person would think and feel and act, constitutes
                both the stock and trade and the secret of success of the emotional actress. But
                what sort of a state of affairs would we have if the actress while on the stage and
                in the midst of the play, should become so muddled, or should so succumb to her
                imagination, that she should actually believe herself to be in truth, the very
                character she was endeavoring to impersonate? And that is exactly the sort of prank
                that suggestion and imagination play upon the hysterical patient. Hysteria is merely
                an actor who temporarily has lost his head, but goes on playing his part thinking it
                to be real.

              Hysteria is a breakdown in that normal and necessary cooperation and coordination
                between the sensory or voluntary nervous system and the great sympathetic or
                involuntary nervous mechanism, thereby resulting in great disturbances of sensation
                and unusual disorder in the motor control of the body. Hysterical attacks might thus
                be regarded as a mild and temporary form of physical or bodily insanity, resulting
                from the decreased or deranged control of the sympathetic nervous system on the part
                of the cerebro-spinal system. And it is exactly this disturbance in the delicate
                balance between these two nervous systems that is responsible for the production of
                that vast concourse of symptoms which are able so to group themselves as to suggest
                almost all forms of every known disease.
            

            
              COMPLEX DISSOCIATION

              A psychic complex is a sort of community or constellation of brain cells, which are
                functionally more or less related and associated. These so-called complexes or
                aggregations of thinking units are more or less coordinated and loosely organized
                into working groups and systems.

              

              Some authorities look upon hysteria as a sort of temporary dissociation between
                certain important complexes or groups of complexes. The consciousness of the
                individual is thus deprived of the coordinate and simultaneous directing influence
                of these distracted and diverted mind centers; and it is just this derangement which
                is responsible for that demoralized, disorganized, and incoordinate mental and
                physical behavior of the patient as exhibited in a typical hysterical attack. A
                severe attack of hysteria would, according to this theory, closely border on that
                interesting phenomenon of dissociation of personality, multiple personality,
                etc.

              In the presence of this temporary sort of complex dissociation, it would appear
                that in the case of these highly suggestible individuals, that some sort of
                dominating and all-pervading idea-- now free from natural restraints and customary
                restrictions-- sweeps through the mind and out over the body, completely dominating
                and absolutely controlling the organism to such an extent as to be able to produce
                cramps, paralyses, and fits, as regards the body; while, in a mental way, the
                patient may become as one possessed of the devil on the one hand, while on the other
                hand, she may go forth in some noble and daring rle as did the heroic maid of
                Orleans.
            

            
              CAUSES OF HYSTERIA

              While the causes of hysteria are many, there is usually to be found both an
                hereditary base and some exciting physical cause. Hysteria is especially prone to
                manifest itself at the adolescent period of life. It seldom makes its first
                appearance after twenty-five or thirty years, and it is exceedingly rare after
                forty-five. It is found about equally divided between the two sexes. In the lower
                classes of society more cases appear among men, while in the higher social class,
                women predominate. The disorder appears in all countries and all races, but the
                Latin, Slav, and Jewish races seem to be more susceptible.

              Chief among the exciting causes are the various emotional disturbances such as
                worry, grief, chagrin, and fright. In fact it has been my experience that in a very
                large number of cases, by careful investigation, we are usually able to trace  hysteria back to some pre-adolescent fright. Sometimes
                a number of bad scares or other harrowing experiences may be grouped together as a
                cause of a later appearing hysteria. These psychic traumatisms are responsible for
                producing a sort of subconscious panic in the controlling and discriminating centers
                of the mind, and are thus able quite unknown to the patient, to precipitate these
                subsequent typical hysterical seizures. These frights may be such common occurrences
                as a mad-dog scare, a runaway, lightning stroke, and other sorts of tragic
                accidents.

              The next most important groups of exciting causes are found to be intoxications of
                various sort-- chronic poisoning by lead, mercury, tobacco, morphine, cocaine, or
                alcohol. It is in this way that the infectious diseases, such as typhoid,
                diphtheria, influenza, etc., predispose certain susceptible persons to hysterical
                attacks. It sometimes develops that the toxemia of chronic diseases works after the
                same manner as in tuberculosis, diabetes, syphilis, cancer, etc.
            

            
              IMITATION AND SUGGESTION

              The next most important group of causes may be classed under the head of
                association and suggestion. Young people when associated together, as in boarding
                schools, may suffer from epidemic attacks of hysteria as a result of suggestion and
                imitation. Even predisposed adults, as a result of physical or mental overwork, and
                under the influence of a powerful suggestion associated with some protracted
                religious meeting, may develop those hysterical attacks which are characterized by
                dancing, spasms, crying, and other emotional manifestations which so frequently
                accompany intense religious excitement, especially in rural districts which are
                ordinarily so quiet and tranquil.

              We must not forget that in hysteria as in neurasthenia and psychasthenia, the real
                basis of the disorder rests upon the hereditary instability of the nervous system,
                and that these patients are also victims of that chronic mental fatigue and ever
                present physical tiredness. And all this creates the ideal state of mind and body
                which makes it so easy for suggestion  to do its evil
                work; especially is this true in those patients who are victims of their own
                suggestions-- autosuggestion. On the other hand, the very fact that these patients
                are so highly suggestible, enables the physician the more easily to gain control
                over them and thus, in proper hands, proves of real value in bringing about their
                recovery.
            

            
              AFFECTIONS AND EMOTIONS

              Dubois thinks that the periodical sex cycles in the woman really have something to
                do with the production of hysteria in certain susceptible individuals. He says: 
                  Even in the normal woman there is some derangement in the psychic life during
                    the menstrual period; there are special sensibilities which are foreign to the
                    mentality of the male, and which we have never been able to comprehend. I am led
                    to believe that the various vague, conscious, or unconscious sensations which
                    pertain to the sexual instinct play, even in the virgin of the most immaculate
                    thoughts, a considerable rle in the genesis of hysteria. But they produce
                    unhealthy autosuggestions only in the subjects so predisposed and those of weak
                    mentality; the hysterical person is also psychasthenic.
                

              Experience has more and more forced me to recognize that unrequited love,
                unsatisfied emotional longings, together with other disappointments and repressions
                of the affections and the passions, must be regarded as the prime cause of hysteria
                in many youth, especially young women.
            

            
              SYMPTOMS OF HYSTERIA

              As before noted, this protean malady is able to produce symptoms which simulate
                practically almost every known disease. It is obviously impossible to undertake to
                catalogue all the manifestations of hysteria in this chapter. It is customary to
                divide these symptoms of hysteria into two groups, viz.: the stigmata or constant
                symptom, and the accidental or transient manifestation.

              The stigmata or chief symptom of hysteria may be considered under three heads:
                  
                  
                    Sensory stigmata.
                    The typical hysterical patient usual  presents
                      symptoms of anaesthesia-- loss of skin sensation over certain portions of the
                      body-- sometimes involving an entire half of the body (usually the left side).
                      There is also sometimes an absence of feeling in the deeper tissues and organs
                      of the body. The senses of taste and smell are frequently perverted,
                      diminished, or even abolished. Hearing may be so diminished as to produce the
                      familiar hysterical deafness; likewise the vision may be so disordered as to
                      result in a long list of sight disturbances some of which are very alarming to
                      the patient, culminating in the characteristic temporary hysteric
                      blindness.
                    These zones of disordered feelings in hysterics are usually movable, although
                      they may apparently remain stationary for many years. An interesting point in
                      this connection, and one greatly concerned in the diagnosis of hysteria, is,
                      that, in spite of these disturbances and loss of sensation, the eye reflexes
                      in their response to light and the tendon reflexes, as shown by the knee jerk,
                      are always present and are practically normal.
                    In contrast with anaesthesia, many patients present conditions of
                      hyperaesthesia. They often complain of neuralgic pains. They have painful
                      hysteric joints. They are especially prone to complain of pain in the breast,
                      spine, pit of stomach, and ovaries; and twenty years ago, many a young woman
                      was subjected to a surgical operation for the removal of the ovaries for no
                      other cause than the fact that she was a victim of hysterical ovarian
                      pain.
                  

                  
                    Motor stigmata. Common ordinary muscular movements in the
                    hysteric are usually retarded. They suffer from a characteristic slowness of
                    action, together with more or less incoordination. They are also quite incapable
                    of performing two or more actions simultaneously. All voluntary actions are more
                    or less weakened, and the patient manifests a tendency to transient rigidities,
                    muscular cramps, and even prolonged contractures. Catalepsy may be the
                    culmination of these numerous motor disturbances.

                  
                    Mental stigmata.
                    The chief and most characteristic mental symptom of hysteria is amnesia--
                      forgetfulness. The hysterical patient may show a very poor memory regarding
                      certain things  or as pertaining to certain
                      individuals, while the memory may be entirely normal as regards other matters
                      and other persons; and this explains just why they so often lay themselves
                      open to the charge of deceit and prevarication. This infirmity is spoken of as
                      systematized memory loss. Memory disturbance in other patients seems to be
                      localized; that is, following a bad attack, they temporarily lose their memory
                      as regards events antecedent to the attack for a variable period of time. In
                      this respect, in a minor way, the hysteric comes closely to resemble those
                      cases of memory lapse which are characteristic of multiple personality; and
                      this is not strange in view of the fact that both conditions-- hysteria and
                      multiple personality-- are supposed to have their origin in complex
                      dissociation.
                    The chief of the other mental stigmata may be mentioned as diminution or
                      complete loss of will power (aboulia), greatly increased impressionability,
                      and that characteristic tendency to imitate and simulate.
                  
                
            

            
              THE SIMULATIONS OF HYSTERIA

              The so-called accidental symptoms of hysteria are usually so grouped and manifested
                as to simulate the clinical picture of some other disease. And it will be best to
                consider them in that light at this time. The fact that the patient is so largely
                self-occupied explains how these hysterical symptoms come entirely to fill up
                consciousness; and in accordance with the laws of the threshold of pain, previously
                considered, it will be easy to understand how the hysteric's common sensations may
                be transmuted into a veritable avalanche of suffering.

              These patients are indeed a "fastidious" class. They are both unbalanced and
                erratic, and their life experience is marked off by certain well defined "crises."
                These characteristic and impulsive explosions are not at all unlike the periodical
                catastrophies of the inebriate, especially as regards the uncontrollable and
                rhythmic behavior of the attacks.

              It should be remembered, as we now take up these hysterical attacks that there very
                often exists some trifling physical basis for these manifestations, which, in
                connection with the nervous and mental state, is able to determine the particular
                and definite  form which the hysterical manifestation
                assumes from time to time.


              
                
                  Gastric Crisis. There are sudden seizures of stomach pain,
                  behaving almost identical with those of the gastric crises of locomotor ataxia.
                  Other cases are limited to a sudden and unusual appearance of gas in the stomach
                  and bowels accompanied with severe colic. These patients also sometimes suffer
                  from a rectal crisis and experience great pain.

                
                  Vomiting Crisis. These attacks of repeated vomiting are very
                  alarming to the patient's friends. They sometimes appear without the slightest
                  excuse, but it is observed that they usually stop before the patient has
                  experienced the loss of much flesh. Closely akin to this manifestation may be
                  noted the fasting fads of the hysterical patient. They not infrequently go a week
                  or ten days without eating. I am of the opinion that most of those cases who
                  appear to have gone without eating for a longer period, were probably getting food
                  on the sly.

                
                  Secretory Crisis. Hysterical patients are subject to sudden
                  attacks of both increase and decrease in the bodily secretions, accompanied by
                  paroxyms of pain and attacks of vomiting; this condition may involve the stomach,
                  liver, bowels, or kidneys; in the latter case, the urine may become scant or be
                  greatly increased in quantity.

                
                  Appendicitis Crisis. The patient is seized with the typical
                  symptoms of acute appendicitis, and the puzzling part of the proposition is the
                  fact that the patient's temperature may sometimes shoot right up to 102-104. I
                  no longer doubt or question the existence of this so-called "hysterical fever."
                  The diagnosis, of course, can be differentiated by the history of the case and an
                  examination of the blood; however, there is a case on record of a hysterical
                  patient who had five operations for appendicitis, during the last of which, the
                  surgeon tatooed on the patient's abdomen this surgical warning, "No appendix
                  here."

                
                  Gallstone Crisis. This fictitious gallstone colic has led
                  careless surgeons into the performance of many a useless operation. It is very
                  common for these patients to think they have gallstones, and it is only by
                  painstaking and thorough-going  examinations, that
                  the physician will be able to avoid serious diagnostic blunders in dealing with
                  these deceptive sufferers.

                
                  Renal Colic Crisis. The patient is able to present all the
                  symptoms of stone in the kidney and of stone passing down the ureter, with the
                  exception that in a real case the urine is suppressed while in hysteria there is
                  usually a greatly increased flow, In these cases, too, many an operation has been
                  performed, but no stone has been found in the kidney.

                
                  The Headache Crisis.
                  These attacks of headache are often so severe and persistent as to suggest
                    brain tumor. It is a common experience to have a patient come to us who is
                    rather under-nourished, suffering from poor circulation, generally nervous,
                    highly emotional, and giving a history of having frequent "nervous spells." Such
                    a hysterical sufferer, often complains of violent headaches which she describes
                    as follows: "Doctor, when I get these dreadful headaches, it just seems as if
                      someone were driving a nail right into the top of my head. It is something
                      terrible and it nearly drives me crazy, and I think it has a whole lot to do
                      with my nervous spells."
                  This is a truly characteristic description of the headache of hysteria. This is
                    a rare form of severe nervous headache. There are other nervous states such as
                    epilepsy, etc., in which the patient describes a similar pain.
                  This hysterical headache is treated by applying very hot fomentations on top of
                    the head for ten or fifteen minutes. These hot applications should be repeated
                    every one or two hours in connection with a very hot foot bath. Such sufferers
                    are usually greatly benefited by taking a warm bath at about 100 degrees. This
                    bath tends to quiet the nervous system and greatly relieves the patient's
                    sufferings.
                


                
                  Pain Crisis. In other cases the hysterical outbreak manifests
                  itself as an explosion of pain-- an avalanche of suffering. It may be an earache,
                  pains in the arms, the legs or some internal organ, or even in a joint. In the
                  milder cases the pain may be described as a soreness or a "deep ache"; while
                  following these painful attacks the patient usually complains of great muscular
                  fatigue. Pain may center in some internal organ such as the heart-- giving rise to
                  pseudo-angina pectoris.

                

                
                  Motor Crisis. These are the fits, spells, and spasms of
                  hysteria. They may imitate convulsions, St. Vitus' dance, or epilepsy. They
                  embrace those cases of muscular paralysis or hysterical palsies, and the patient
                  is sometimes unable to stand or walk, while for years at a time he may suffer from
                  hysterical joints, the hip and the knee being the joints more usually involved.
                  They present tremors that resemble exophthalmic goitre. They experience laughing,
                  crying, and choking attacks, and often create internal tumors which are as hard
                  and fixed as to deceive the surgeon into the performance of an operation-- if he
                  neglects the precaution of putting the patient into a prolonged hot bath first.
                  This usually causes the tumor to vanish.
              
            

            
              HYSTERICAL ATTACKS

              The average hysterical patient who is subject to mild attacks, complains of
                numbness of the tongue, bad taste, prickling sensations in the side of the face,
                ringing in the ears and headaches. At other times he will suffer from twitching in
                the back of the neck and a fluttering sensation in the throat, with now and then a
                general seizure resembling a mild convulsion. He seldom completely loses
                consciousness. These attacks are usually first brought on by some definite fright.
                At other times the symptoms may originate in the stomach or by a crawling feeling
                ascending the spine. The patient gets cold, nauseated, or may be attacked by a
                choking sensation. These seizures may crystallize into any one of the groups or
                crises already described. And yet when the patient is examined during the interval
                between these attacks-- while the symptoms which were manifested at the crisis are
                absent-- the physician is always able to detect certain ear-marks of hysteria, the
                "stigmata" previously described.

              When the disease is at its worst, the patient suffers from what the physicians call
                "grand attacks," and these seizures are really divided into five periods.

              
                
                  The Prodromal Stage. This is characterized by unusual
                    depression or exhilaration, by moodiness or restlessness, also by disturbances
                    of sight and hearing, circulatory disturbances, 
                    nausea, hiccough, trembling, and the passing of a large quantity of urine, all
                    of which culminates in the appearance of the fatal aura-- that
                    is, the feeling of something arising from the abdomen like a rounded body, which
                    slowly mounts upward until on reaching the neck, it gives origin to those
                    feelings of strangulation and suffocation, the globus hystericus.
                

                
                  The Epileptoid Period. This closely resembles a mild
                    epileptic attack. The tongue may protrude, but it is seldom if ever bitten. The
                    face is drawn to one side. The spasms usually last from one to two minutes.
                    Unlike epilepsy, the feet are extended and the hands are moved in circles. After
                    one or two minutes, more rapid oscillations begin in the muscle, especially the
                    face, while the patient begins to gasp and sob.
                

                
                  The Period of Clownism. A period of contortions, attitudes,
                    and movements sometimes accompanied by violent outcries and expressive of
                    evident fear and rage. This is the phase in which the patient is often given to
                    biting and striking.
                

                
                  Period of Passional Attitudes. In this the patient dramatizes
                    in pantomine the fears and experiences which dominate the consciousness in
                    association with the hysterical attack.
                

                
                  Period of Delirium. This period may last from a few moments
                    to several hours. The patient talks of his hallucinations and sufferings. And
                    after much sobbing and crying followed by a few moments' silence, consciousness
                    is quickly recovered and the "grand attack" is over, having lasted from fifteen
                    minutes to half an hour.
                
              
            

            
              SPECIAL TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA

              In general, hysteria must be treated by those methods of will-training which will
                be fully dealt with in Part II of this work. But brief suggestions will be given in
                this chapter, first of which is the caution not to confuse some serious organic
                disease with hysteria, or to overlook such a serious disorder if present as a
                complication of hysteria. Such a mistake in diagnosis is usually avoided by careful
                study of the heredity and history of the patient, together with a physical
                examination which usually discloses the characteristic anaesthetic or hyperaesthetic
                skin spots together with other typical "hysterical stigmata."

              

              During the attack an effort should be made to divert the patient's concentrated
                attention. Vigorous threats and other spectacular stunts may be effective at first,
                but they soon lose their influence. In fact there is very little treatment to be
                suggested during the attack itself.

              Between attacks the patient's treatment is both physical and mental. Physically,
                fresh air, good food, and exercise, together with modified rest-cure in certain
                cases, are the remedial agents of greatest value.

              The mental treatment may be summarized as follows: 
                   Explain to the patients the real facts-- show them the true origin
                    of their troubles.

                   Assist them in isolating the exciting causes such as love affairs,
                    family troubles, sorrow, and any other dominant subconscious idea.

                   Seek out, isolate, and eliminate buried experiences, such as early
                    childhood frights, vivid dreams, etc.

                   The patient will be cured by will-training, coupled with diverting
                    the attention and sympathies to children and other helpless people.
                
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 In olden time hysteria was confounded with demoniacal possession,
                  insanity, witchcraft, and accompanied religious excitement and national
                  upheavals.

                 Both men and women are affected with hysteria. It is a disorder
                  resulting from cerebral insufficiency. It is not a woman's disease, as the name
                  suggests.

                 Hysteria is a disorder of personality in hereditarily predisposed and
                  highly suggestive individuals with little self-control.

                Hysteria is characterized by riotous emotions, morbid
                  self-consciousness, exaggerated sensations and simulations of various
                  diseases.

                 Hysteria is an actor who has lost his head and thinks the part he's
                  playing is real.

                 Physically, hysteria is a derangement in the normal and delicate
                  balance between the cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic nervous systems.

                 Hysteria may be due to complex dissociation, and would thus be
                  regarded as related to a mild and temporary form of dissociation of
                  personality.

                

                 The chief causes of hysteria are hereditary predisposition, and
                  pre-adolescent frights-- a series or group of frights.

                 These early emotional shocks produce a sort of sub-conscious panic
                  resulting in demoralized emotional and motor control.

                 Among other causes of hysteria may be mentioned intoxication and
                  chronic poisoning, resulting from drugs and from acute and chronic disease
                  toxins.

                 Imitation hysteria may appear in boarding schools, and may accompany
                  intense religious excitement, manifesting itself in dancing, spasms, crying,
                  etc.

                 Repressed emotions and disappointed affections, together with the
                  periodic sex cycles of women, are all contributary causes of hysteria.

                 The major symptoms of hysteria (stigmata) are a group of
                  characteristic motor, mental, and sensory disturbances.

                 Sensory disturbances are: anaesthesia, hyperaesthesia, disorders of
                  taste, smell, and hearing, and numerous other abnormal sensations and
                  feelings.

                 Common motor stigmata are retardation and incoordination of muscular
                  movement, together with rigidities, cramps, contractions, and even
                  catalepsy.

                 The chief mental stigmata are forgetfulness, freaks of memory,
                  diminution of will power with marked tendency to imitate and simulate.

                 The "attacks" of hysteria usually simulate some well-known disease
                  and behave somewhat after the manner of the crisis of periodical inebriety.

                 Hysterical attacks commonly appear as a "gastric crisis," "rectal
                  crisis," "colic crisis," "vomiting crisis," and secretory disturbances.

                 Other attacks may simulate appendicitis, gallstone crisis, and the
                  passing of stones from the kidney.

                 Pain is a constant symptom, chiefly manifested as a characteristic
                  headache, but no part of the body is exempt.

                 The "motor crisis" are fits and spells which may imitate convulsions,
                  chorea, epilepsy, and paralysis.

                 Hysteria seizures are divided into the mild or minor crisis, and the
                  "grand attacks" lasting from fifteen to thirty minutes.

                 The "grand attacks" of hysteria are divided into five periods; viz.,
                  prodromal, epileptoid, clownism, passional attitudes, and delirium.

                 The treatment of hysteria consists of diverting the attention,
                  directing the emotions, training the will, removing fear, and finding new objects
                  for love and sympathy.
              
            
          


          
            
            CHAPTER XIX HYPOCHONDRIA AND
              MELANCHOLIA

            SOME authorities do not distinguish between hypochondria and
              melancholia. They simply recognize a simple melancholia or hypochondria and the more
              serious melancholia which is one of the stages of "maniac-depressive insanity." In
              presenting these disorders to the layman, I prefer to retain a classification that
              recognizes hypochondria as a comparatively innocent and harmless variety of mental
              depression, in contrast with melancholia, which undoubtedly leads us into the
              borderland of the more serious and well-defined aspects of the early and milder
              insanities.

            
              THE BLUES

              The most simple form of periodical depression is that commonly known as the
                "blues"-- a sort of acute attack of mild hypochondria. It is a combined mental and
                physical condition characterized by loss of appetite, disturbed sleep,
                disinclination for physical exercise, and a great increase in the intensity of one's
                aches and pains. It is a condition thought by many authorities to be greatly
                aggravated by portal (liver) congestion, chronic constipation, etc., and for this
                reason has sometimes been called "splanchnic neurasthenia." Periodical depression in
                this mild form is difficult to classify, and may very properly be looked upon as a
                specialized form of nervous exhaustion.
            

            
              WHAT IS HYPOCHONDRIA?

              Many years ago it was noticed that certain patients became inordinately depressed
                the depression continuing from three to six months at a time-- while the interval of
                fairly normal health would last from six months to a year. In some cases the
                hypochondria was light, but too well defined to be called an  attack of the "blues." On the other extreme, certain of the more
                profound hypochondrias we now classify as melancholia, and frankly recognize them as
                a part of "circular insanity." But in between the common blues of the functional
                nervous states and the melancholic hypochondria of insanity, we have a well defined
                state of depression which is often amenable to combined mental and physical
                treatment, and for which we prefer to retain the name and classification of "simple
                hypochondria."

              In addition to the characteristic mental depression and anxious countenance of the
                patients, they suffer from a variety of fixed pains. When we find a patient who
                insists on tormenting himself with a large assortment of self-inflicted ills, and
                who at the same time is not definitely melancholic, and who evidences no suicidal
                tendencies, then, as I say, I prefer to call the case one of hypochondria.

              It is the patients' tendency to exaggerate all their physical suffering that
                affords the clue to diagnosis. And not only that, but when they have no disease at
                all, they make a special business of having it any way. Their complaints are out of
                all proportion to the cause. They are constantly preoccupied with their own
                troubles, inordinately self centered, and introspective to the highest degree.
            

            
              CHRONIC GRIEF

              Some forms of depression are due to passing or transient causes and would better be
                classified as "chronic grief," and while the doctor cannot cure these cases, he can
                always offer consolation-- comfort resting upon a sound basis of reasoning--
                consolation that is even more apt to appeal to the patient than that offered by the
                clergy.

              The causes of prolonged grief may be natural or unnatural; that is, the bereaved
                mother may grieve over the loss of an only child and this we would regard as but
                natural and would expect that time would heal the hurt; but, when the mother unduly
                and unusually prolongs and intensifies her grief, and gives as her reason for so
                doing that she believes the child was taken away as a providential punishment for
                her personal sins, or when she  comes to believe she
                had or has committed the unpardonable sin, etc., then we may recognize a case of
                abnormal or unnatural grief-- one closely approaching hypochondria or
                melancholia.

              These unusual cases of grief usually appear in patients who are predisposed by both
                heredity and poor health. The important thing to do for these patients is to raise
                the vitality, to keep up the nutrition and endeavor to show them that such
                experiences are but common everyday episodes in the regular order of existence on
                this planet.
            

            
              CAUSES OF DEPRESSION

              Hypochondria often results from a combination of physical illness and a chronic
                habit of fearful doubting. Too many people are like Shakespeare's Hamlet-- they are
                constitutionally doubters. A chronic state of depression is sometimes brought on by
                a sudden loss of position or fortune. On the other hand, the enforced idleness of
                the retired business man or society woman tends to the development of introspection,
                and this morbid self-examination culminates in hypochondria.

              People over forty years of age are in danger of brooding over themselves and their
                imaginary troubles when they are not kept busy at something more useful. It is a bad
                practice for well-to-do people to lie abed late in the morning-- to breakfast in
                bed, etc. It is better for the health of both mind and body to be up and about-- to
                be doing one's part in the performance of the world's work.

              Of course, we must be careful not to confuse and confound the early mental
                depression which so frequently accompanies the beginning of kidney disorders and
                certain forms of heart disease, with a purely functional hypochondria.
            

            
              SYMPTOMS OF HYPOCHONDRIA

              The hypochondriac is always busy complaining of his symptoms and otherwise looking
                after his health. His symptoms are almost as numerous as those of the neurasthenic
                and the hysteric. He is troubled with scores of autosuggestions of symptoms and
                diseases which are partially or wholly unreal. His brain has full power to originate
                all sorts of disease products such as  pains,
                sensations, and other sorts of unusual aches and feelings. These poor creatures
                really suffer the tortures of all the symptoms of their numerous imaginary
                afflictions just as truly and literally as if their diseases were wholly
                genuine.

              The hypochondriac will get up out of bed in the middle of the night and walk the
                floor for hours at a time. In the morning his countenance is dejected and in the
                more serious forms of the disease, the patient will often confess to entertaining
                suicidal thoughts.
            

            
              TREATMENT OF HYPOCHONDRIA

              If the hypochondriac is not too old, and if the disorder is not of too long
                standing or too deeply rooted, much can often be done to cure and relieve these
                sufferers. These patients in their anxious efforts to find a cure, go from one
                doctor to another, and are easily persuaded to take up any new remedy; and in this
                way they contribute much to the support of quacks, fakers, and frauds.

              Associating with children is the greatest and most successful cure for
                hypochondria. Even horseback riding, driving horses, and the care and training of
                animal pets are all helpful and curative diversions. (Fig. 9.) If it is impossible to enjoy the companionship of anything
                alive, then one might recommend automobiling as a possible alternative. The
                cultivation of a garden spot is a splendid treatment for mild hypochondria in old
                people.

              Any and all forms of mental occupation including hobbies, books on exploration and
                adventure, and even correspondence schools, are helpful in combating the blues.
                These attacks of mental depression are also sometimes cured by mental shock such as
                sudden business reverses, acute illness, an unexpected elopement, and other unlooked
                for episodes in the family or business life.

              Time and occupation are the principal cures for hypochondria, aside from the
                maintenance of a fair degree of physical health. Many of the great men of history
                have been more or less hypochondriac. Virchow, the great pathologist, was decidedly
                hypochondriacal, while James Russell Lowell was so depressed 
                
                  Fig. 9. Animal Pets are Good for the Blues
                
                
                 at times that he confesses he contemplated suicide;
                and yet these great men with many others achieved success in life in spite of their
                periodical depressions.

              Hypochondriacs should live out of doors as much as possible; they should even sleep
                out of doors wherever and whenever practicable. Mentally, they should form habits of
                doing things regularly and systematically and then forgetting their acts while they
                move on to the accomplishment of their next task.

              Many of these hypochondriacs are in reality psychasthenes, while their doubts and
                fears are nothing more nor less than the phobias and obsessions of our former
                chapters.
            


            
              SIMPLE MELANCHOLIA

              We have now come to the end of the simple neuroses and must recognize that
                melancholia is upon the borderland of the psychoses (insanities). While in the
                matter of sadness and despair the melancholic may much resemble the hypochondriac,
                nevertheless the preoccupations are entirely different, "The hypochondriac pities
                himself over his state of health, while the melancholic regards exterior
                circumstances with sadness, or criticizes his conduct in, a self-accusing frame of
                mind."

              While these melancholic patients appear to recover from their depression, as a
                rule, in most cases, the improvement is but transient, for within a few weeks or a
                month, they are again attacked with the same depressive moods. Between these attacks
                of depression, the patient is often more or less exhilarated-- in the more severe
                cases actually maniacal. It is these alternations between depression and exaltation
                that constitutes "circular insanity," otherwise known as "maniac-depressive
                insanity."

              I am compelled to recognize that we have a type of mild melancholia which can be
                cured by proper treatment and the regulation of the patient's environment. And even
                the insane varieties of melancholia may be greatly helped by appropriate
                treatment.
            

            
              MANIFESTATIONS OF MELANCHOLIA

              These melancholic patients are often sent to the neurologist under the impression
                that they are neurasthenics. In common  with
                hypochondriacs, they may complain of many physical ills. While in good nutrition
                they believe they are losing flesh. They complain of internal troubles such as the
                brain rotting, maintaining that they can smell the putrefaction. The most
                distressing feature of the disease is that the dangers of suicide are in no wise in
                keeping with the intensity of the patient's disease delusions; that is, he may make
                few complaints and yet be on the verge of committing suicide.

              The most pathetic of all are those cases of young people, particularly young women,
                who are stricken with this inherited nervous disorder. They suddenly become
                depressed and morose, shun all forms of social life, begin to speak of themselves
                and their work as a failure, begin to show retardation in all muscular movements
                such as dressing, eating, etc. They begin to consult various physicians about
                imaginary ills which they believe afflict them as a punishment for some mistake or
                crime. They gradually lose interest in everything but themselves, and even begin to
                hint at suicide.
            

            
              TREATMENT OF MELANCHOLIA

              Typical melancholia which is known to be one of the cycles of a "maniac-depressive
                insanity," should be treated in a well-regulated asylum or other appropriate
                institution.

              The milder forms of melancholia; that is, the neurasthenic or hypochondriac type
                should certainly be treated outside of an asylum. It is a crime to send such
                innocent sufferers to institutions for the mentally deranged.

              If the patient evinces no homicidal or suicidal tendencies, he may be safely and
                successfully treated at home. The treatment consists in diversion of the mind,
                upbuilding the physical health, eliminative and tonic baths, together with
                persistent psychotherapy. If these patients are losing flesh, feed them heavily on
                milk and eggs. Have them walk three to five miles a day in the open air. Keep them
                in the company of a cheerful companion or attendant. There is little to be gained
                from exhorting or scolding these patients, and it usually requires from three to six
                months to get the patient out of the attack. Further suggestions valuable in the
                treatment of this state, will be found in  later
                chapters, particularly the chapter entitled "The Social Service Cure."
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Hypochondria is a comparatively innocent and harmless variety of
                  mental depression in contrast with melancholia which runs into well-defined
                  insanity.

                 The most simple form of periodical depression is "the blues." This is
                  a neurasthenic state dependent upon combined mental and physical causes.

                 "Simple hypochondria" lies between the blues and the melancholic
                  hypochondria of the insane, and is characterized by depression and fixed ideas
                  regarding personal health.

                 The hypochondriac, even though he has no disease, makes a special
                  business of having it anyway. He enormously exaggerates everything he
                  feels.

                 Hypochondriacs are preoccupied with their troubles, inordinately
                  self-centered and introspective to the highest degree.

                 Common grief may be regarded as a mild form of hypochondria or
                  melancholia. Time alone is usually sufficient to heal the hurt.

                 Bad heredity and lowered vitality predispose grief-stricken patients
                  to prolonged periods of depression.

                 Hypochondria is brought on by poor health, chronic doubting, loss of
                  position or fortune, enforced idleness and luxurious indolence.

                 Some patients suffer from depression as an hereditary predisposition;
                  like Hamlet, they are born doubters.

                 The hypochondriac really suffers from his imaginary ills which are
                  almost as numerous as those of the neurasthenic or hysteric.

                 The treatment of hypochondria embraces thorough-going medical
                  attention, association with children or the care and training of animal pets,
                  automobiling, gardening, etc.

                 Other valuable methods include the cultivation of hobbies, books on
                  exploration, congenial correspondence, outdoor living, together with regular
                  mental and physical habits.

                 Time, occupation, and good physical health will cure many mild
                  hypochondriacs.

                 The melancholic in addition to worry over his personal health is also
                  sad over other and external circumstances. The mind is highly
                  self-accusing.

                 In severe melancholia, improvement is but temporary-- the interval of
                  exaltation which is characteristic of maniac-depressive insanity.

                

                 We must recognize a mild type of melancholia which is curable by
                  proper treatment and suitable environment.

                 Melancholics are prone to complain of things which are manifestly
                  untrue; viz., insist that they are losing flesh while the body weight remains
                  stationary.

                 Hereditary melancholia commonly attacks young people between the ages
                  of fifteen and twenty-five. Many cases are amenable to treatment.

                 Typical and severe melancholia is best treated in the asylum or some
                  other appropriate institution.

                 The milder neurasthenic or hypochondriac types of melancholia may be
                  safely and successfully treated at home provided they evince no suicidal
                  tendencies.

                 The treatment of melancholia consists in diverting the mind,
                  upbuilding the body, tonic hydrotherapy, and appropriate psychotherapy.

                 Probably the most important factor in the cure is to enlist the
                  patients in social service-- set them at work doing something for someone
                  else.
              
            
          

          

            
            CHAPTER XX BORDERLAND NERVOUS AILMENTS

            IN ADDITION to the seven sorts of nervousness we have discussed up
              to this time, there remains to be considered a miscellaneous group of nervous
              disorders which are partly hereditary, and in some instances physical, as well as
              nervous, in their origin.

            
              CHOREA OR ST. VITUS' DANCE

              This is a disorder occurring in those hereditarily predisposed nervous children,
                especially young girls, whose minds are over-wrought in comparison with their
                muscular activities. It is a disease largely confined to the adolescent period. It
                is a condition found frequently to follow rheumatism in children; and, when the soil
                is ripe, the condition is immediately caused by fright, mental worry, sudden grief,
                or even a scolding has been known to bring on an attack.

              The disease is too well known to need description. It is characterized by jerky,
                involuntary muscular movements and minor twitching of the face and upper
                extremities. These movements are not indulged in during sleep or when the patient's
                mind is fully occupied; on the other hand they become rapidly worse when the patient
                is an object of anxious solicitude or curiosity at either home or school.

              The treatment consists in early recognition, mental rest and relaxation, moderate
                physical activity, and such management as shall lead the child to forget its ailment
                and anticipate recovery. These patients should be removed from the curious gaze of
                both friends and strangers, and this, in addition to a liberal diet and the outdoor
                life, is usually sufficient to bring about a speedy recovery. In fact, the disorder
                seems to behave somewhat after the manner of a self-limited malady, and this  strongly suggests the idea that it owes its origin to
                some toxic or infectious agency.
            

            
              TICS AND HABIT SPASMS

              When any movement of a voluntary muscle becomes more or less rhythmic, regular, and
                involuntary, it is regarded as a "tic." The development of these motor or habit
                spasms serves as a good illustration of the manner in which uncontrolled feelings
                and habits of sensation may also have their origin.

              One of the most common "tics" is the involuntary winking of the eye. Other
                movements of the nose, the upper lip and the muscles of expression are common. We
                also observe nodding tics, talking tics, etc.

              The constant habit when speaking, of uttering the words "don't you know," "listen,"
                or, when hesitating, to say, "hum," or "hem," are nothing more than chronic tics.
                Likewise, the mannerisms or gestures of public speakers come to assume the rle of a
                chronic tic, as does also the fussiness of other people who must needs play with the
                pencil, the knife, or twirl the mustache, their hair, or their thumbs. Others chew
                their finger nails, or pick the nose. By-words and even blasphemy must be looked
                upon as sort of vocal tics.

              It is found that these manifestations of tics seem to run in families; and it is
                highly probable that heredity and suggestion both play a part in their causation. If
                taken in time, they are practically all curable by persistent nerve-training method.
                Even the worst cases may be greatly benefited or even cured if the patient will
                persist in following the prescribed regime. ,
            

            
              STUTTERING AND ATAXIAS

              Stuttering in children is sometimes lightly regarded because of the wide spread
                belief that they will probably outgrow it. Stuttering or ataxia is observed in
                walking, writing, and swallowing, as well as in talking. All forms of stuttering are
                made worse by over-attention, excitement, and anything else that increases the
                self-consciousness.

              The stuttering gait in walking is nothing more nor less than a crystallized fear.
                These patients find great difficulty in walking  past
                a watching crowd. The condition is a nervous fear and not a physical difficulty.

              Other nervous patients cannot write; they are not even able to sign their name when
                anyone is watching; even writer's cramp must be regarded as belonging to this class
                rather than to that of the genuine cramps.

              We once had a patient who had such a stuttering of the gullet that he was unable to
                eat solid food, and could eat nothing at all when any one was watching him. There is
                little doubt that both suggestion and psychic contagion operate to make all these
                stutterers and stammerers worse.

              Stuttering is prone to develop at puberty, that time of general awkwardness and
                bashfulness; and is far more common in men than in women. Most stutterers are found
                to be mouth breathers and many are afflicted with adenoids and diseased tonsils.
                Stuttering in adults is sometimes initiated by some sudden emotion, fright, or
                accident.
            

            
              STAMMERING CURES

              I know of more than a dozen successful systems for curing stuttering and
                stammering. Some of these systems are diametrically opposite, and yet they are all
                more or less successful, which only goes to prove that it is their power to take the
                patient's mind off his talking that affects the cure, and not any inherent virtue
                residing in the system itself.

              The ancients attributed stuttering to tongue-tie, the moderns are inclined to hold
                self-consciousness and respiratory disturbances to blame. One system cures by
                holding the tip of the tongue against the palate while talking, another and equally
                successful method directs to keep the tongue firmly on the floor of the mouth; and
                so it goes, any system is successful that distracts the patient's attention.

              One of the most successful systems is the singing cure. These patients never
                stutter while singing. It has been observed that normal speakers talk during
                expiration, while the stutterer usually begins to speak at the end of inspiration.
                Any system of breathing exercises which divert the mind from the thought of talking
                are beneficial.
            

            

            
              TREMORS

              Tremors may be divided into two classes, those accompanying voluntary movements and
                those associated with involuntary movements. The majority of old people develop
                tremors and are sometimes greatly alarmed by them, notwithstanding the fact that
                they continue for many years, and are indicative of no special disorder, except in
                the case of paralysis agitans.

              The voluntary or intentional tremors may be occasioned by fright and by accidents,
                as well as by other fears and dreads. Children who have been bitten by dogs tremble
                when in the presence of other dogs. Some men tremble when shaving from the fear that
                they will be tempted to cut their throats; others cannot lift a cup of water to
                their mouth when observed, without exhibiting tremors. These tremblings may even
                affect the legs as in stage fright.

              The treatment of tremors consists in upbuilding the physical health, increasing the
                weight (these patients are usually run down in weight), together with persistent
                training of the patient's mind along those difficult lines of muscle control. The
                patient's confidence must be inspired, favorable suggestions given, and his will so
                trained that he is able to re-master and thoroughly control his voluntary muscular
                movements.
            

            
              HALLUCINATIONS

              Hallucinations are those vivid inner thoughts of the mind which appeal to the
                patient just as strongly as if they had originated in external sensory impressions.
                Illusions are a deception of the senses; delusions result from erroneous reasoning
                and faulty conclusions; while hallucinations lie midway between illusions and
                delusions. It is a common belief that only the insane have hallucinations, but it is
                my belief that at least one person out of four among apparently sane and normal
                people, has had one or more hallucinatory experiences.

              Patients who have had hallucinations are loath to acknowledge their experience--
                they fear they will be adjudged insane or mentally unbalanced. The physician can do
                much to relieve these worried sufferers by explaining the probable physical origin
                of most hallucinations, explaining how they are due to a  reversal of the nervous mechanism, a throwing outward of imaginary
                images accompanied by the impression that these images are incoming normal
                sensations, the same as those resulting from natural and normal external sensory
                excitation. The doctor can also help these patients by telling them how many other
                healthy people have had similar experiences, and further, by instructing them in the
                necessary mental discipline which will enable the patient both to understand and to
                overcome these experiences and the baseless fears which they excite.

              Hallucinations must always be thought of in connection with insanity, especially
                hallucinations of hearing. Many a so-called apparition was in reality a
                dream-hallucination, that is, the patient dropped off to sleep for a moment, had his
                dream, waked up, and then was tricked by his own mind into believing that what he
                dreamed he had actually seen while awake. This is probably the explanation of Mark
                Twain's "disappearance" story, and many other similar narratives.
            

            
              DREAMS

              From time immemorial, dreams have disturbed the tranquil peace of the human mind.
                They begin in early childhood, aroused by exciting stories of Indians and wars, or
                perchance by the lurid Sunday Supplement. We must not forget the fact that everybody
                dreams all the time every night, but we only remember that portion of our dream
                which is in the consciousness at the moment of awaking.

              I have found it a great help to excitable and nervous patients to explain to them,
                when they describe how they have "hardly slept at all," "dreamed all night," etc.,
                that these dreams which they believe have lasted all night have really occurred
                within a few seconds or at most a few moments of time, at, or just preceding, the
                instant of waking up.
            

            
              PHYSICAL CAUSES OF DREAMS

              I also find it a great help to nervous sufferers to explain to them the probable
                physical origin of their night terrors or nerve-racking dreams. The most common
                dream which all  people experience, is that well-known
                sensation of falling from a great height-- you wake up while falling and just before
                striking the ground. It is an old belief that if one did not waken before striking
                the ground, he would be killed by the dream-fall just as surely as if the experience
                were literal. Now, these falling dreams are brought about by the following
                situation: The patient is always sleeping on the back, and they nearly always occur
                during the fore part of the night when the stomach is heavily loaded from the
                evening meal. This causes such pressure on the aorta as to lessen the flow of blood
                to the legs, which produces a tingling sensation in the nerves (not so marked as the
                numbness present when the foot "goes to sleep"), similar to that experienced during
                a rapid descent in an elevator, and it is this sensation in the legs, and produced
                in this manner, which associates itself in the consciousness with the memory and
                imagination data connected with the concept of falling from a great height.

              Perhaps the next most universal dream is that of being caught out in public with
                insufficient clothing-- all of which is readily explained when you awaken from your
                embarrassment to find an arm, leg, or some other part of the body without bed
                covering and chilled to the bone.

              Another common and almost universal dream-experience is that of running for miles,
                and getting out of breath while chased by some imaginary enemy. This sort of a dream
                is the result of a real bodily need of air, and occurs in those persons suffering
                from adenoids and colds in the head which are sufficient partially to interfere with
                the respiratory function.

              It seems needless in this day to add that dreams are without significance other
                than has been noted. All that has been said regarding the accidental and incidental
                character of premonitions in a former chapter, applies with equal force to
                dreams.
            

            
              MIGRAINE

              Migraine or nervous sick headache is an explosive, paroxysmal, nervous attack,
                accompanied by headache (usually one-sided), nausea, vomiting, and other minor
                manifestations,  terminating in a desire to sleep
                which leads to complete recovery. These attacks are sometimes called "bilious
                headaches" or bilious spells when they are not overly severe. Migraine is one of the
                most directly inherited of all nervous disorders. It is commonly associated with
                indigestion, constipation, eye strain, rheumatism, and a general neurotic
                constitution. In many patients even a slight overeating of nitrogenous food is sure
                to precipitate an attack.

              While migraine is not caused by an idle and luxurious life, it is certainly made
                much worse by such an aimless existence. These patients often submit to operations
                for floating kidneys and are often treated and mistreated in a great variety of ways
                before they are able to find any great relief. It should be remembered that migraine
                is a disorder all the while present in the patient and that these attacks of sick
                headache are merely its nervous explosions-- the periodical overflow. The relief or
                cure of migraine (if cured it can be) lies in the re-formation of the patient's mode
                of thinking and living.

              The first thing for the migraine patient to do is to have the eyes thoroughly
                examined and properly fitted to glasses, if required. Next, let the nose, throat,
                and ears be carefully overhauled; then let the searchlight be turned on metabolism,
                constipation, and the general situation in the abdomen and pelvis. These patients
                must be taught to avoid over fatigue-- mental, nervous, and physical. It is
                imperative that such patients subsist upon the so-called low protein diet. The
                milder attacks of migraine, not accompanied by vomiting are sometimes greatly helped
                by eating a small amount of food or by drinking a glass of hot milk. These attacks
                are sometimes aborted or lessened in severity by the timely use of cathartics or by
                hot colonic flushings.

              By thoroughly regulating one's habits of life-- by normalizing one's mode of
                living-- by the removal of every possible and known abnormal condition and
                unhygienic practice, I have observed numerous migraine sufferers who have
                practically cured themselves of this aggravating disorder, insomuch that,
                notwithstanding the supposed incurability of the disease, they are able to go from
                six months to a year without experiencing  an attack.
                I am forced to add, in this connection, that these patients who are thus so
                successful in mastering migraine, are those who, in addition to the hygienic
                regulation of their lives, also conquered their mental modes and otherwise gained
                such control over their nervous systems as to result in a very harmonious, peaceful,
                and happy, habitual frame of mind.
            

            
              PSEUDO-EPILEPSY

              Many neurotic patients suffer from certain drowsy or fainting spells which are
                neither true epilepsy nor hysteria. They experience a brief lapse of memory, may or
                may not fall unconscious, the eyelids grow heavy, and they have a rush of blood to
                the head. These are the cases of epilepsy that are so marvelously cured by Christian
                Science, osteopathy, and numerous other forms of mental healing.

              Pseudo-epilepsy develops on hereditary soil, and is made worse by autosuggestion on
                the one hand and various toxins and nerve irritants on the other hand. An effort to
                remove these exciting causes, together with proper psychotherapy, is nearly always
                successful in bringing about a more or less complete cure. On the other hand,
                genuine epilepsy is an incurable disease, except in those special forms which are
                due to cranial accidents.
            

            
              DEFECTIVES AND DEGENERATES

              It is not within the province of this work to deal with those more grave and
                inherited mental and nervous disorders commonly embraced by the terms
                feeble-mindedness, retarded brain development, and other phases and forms of
                defective nervous development.

              I believe it is a duty that society owes itself to take immediate steps to prevent
                the further multiplication of these manifestly inferior human strains. I believe
                further, that it is equally the duty of society to do everything possible for the
                help and advancement of these unfortunate mental defectives which it may find on its
                hands at any given period. Special schools must be established for the backward
                child; and for those who cannot be advanced mentally manual training must  be provided. But the most important part of this whole
                problem is to devise some acceptable and efficient method which will prevent these
                biologically inferior, mentally defective, and socially degenerate persons from
                reproducing an increased number of offspring to further deteriorate and jeopardize
                the race stamina of future generations; to still further fill the asylums, crowd the
                prisons, overrun the schools for feeble-minded, congest the brothels, and further to
                tax our combined charitable and philanthropic resources.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The borderline nervous ailments are those partially hereditary and
                  partly physically caused disorders, such as chorea, tics, stuttering, tremors,
                  ataxias, hallucinations, migraine and pseudo-epilepsy.

                 Chorea is a nervous disorder of young people characterized by
                  involuntary twitchings. It is a self-limited disorder, and it is cured by good
                  hygiene and diverting the patient's attention.

                 Tics are more or less rhythmic and regular movements of a voluntary
                  muscle which may become so habitual as to be performed involuntarily, such as
                  winking and other facial jerkings.

                 Stage mannerisms, by-words, twirling the thumbs, and biting the finger
                  nails, are all common and curable tics.

                 Stuttering is a form of ataxia observed in walking, writing,
                  swallowing, and talking, and results from increased self-consciousness.

                 Suggestion and psychic contagion operate to increase stuttering and
                  stammering. These patients are cured by diverting the attention and persistent
                  training.

                 Most young stutterers are found to be mouth breathers and also have
                  adenoids.

                 Any system will be successful in curing stuttering which is able to
                  take the patient's mind off his talking. The singing cures are highly
                  successful.

                 Involuntary tremors are found in the aged, while voluntary trembling
                  is occasioned by childish fears and adult hoodoos, stage fright, etc.

                 The treatment of tremors consists in upbuilding the physical health,
                  together with persistent and appropriate mental training.

                 It is a mistaken belief that only the insane are afflicted with
                  hallucinations. Many normal people have these experiences.

                 Many so-called apparitions are in reality dream-hallucinations, that
                  is, they occur in a moment of cat-napping.

                

                 Dreams occur throughout the period of sleep but we are conscious of
                  only those caught in the mind at the moment of awaking.

                 It is a great help to nervous patients to have the possible physical
                  causes of their dreams fully explained.

                 Migraine is the most directly inherited of all nervous disorders. It
                  is characterized by headache, nausea and vomiting, and it is commonly associated
                  with eye strain, indigestion, and constipation.

                 The cure of migraine lies in re-forming the patient's modes of mental
                  and physical living, eliminating all causes which are removable.

                 It is imperative that migraine sufferers live upon the so-called low
                  protein diet.

                 Pseudo-epilepsy is a curable nervous disorder caused by neurotic
                  heredity, autosuggestion, and autointoxication.

                 Society has a double duty to perform with reference to its defectives
                  and degenerates. First, to give these unfortunates every opportunity for
                  improvement; and second, to provide methods to prevent the reproduction of their
                  kind.
              
            
          
        

        
          
          PART II TREATMENT OF THE NERVOUS STATES

          

          
            
            PART II TREATMENT OF THE NERVOUS STATES

            

            CHAPTER XXI THE GENERAL HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM

            THE management of the human nervous system is probably the most
              important branch of hygiene. This importance is due to the embryological and
              anatomical fact that the nervous system inherited from one's ancestors and which is
              present in the infant body at birth, is the same identical nervous mechanism which
              must be carried throughout life; that is, the individual cells of the nervous system
              retain their identity throughout a life time, and this explains why the behavior of
              the nerve centers is only changed by persistent efforts in reeducation carried on for
              a sufficient length of time to produce new habits of nervous behavior.

            
              GENERAL PRINCIPLES

              It is my belief that in the future the physician's consulting office is destined to
                become a psychotherapeutic laboratory in which the human nervous system will be
                scientifically studied, diagnosed, and prescribed for. The day in which the doctor's
                office is to be merely an adjunct to the chemist's shop is about over. he physician
                of the future is destined to become a mental minister, dispensing courage, hope,
                confidence, and stoicism to his patients, all of whom are more or less disordered in
                nerves and discouraged in mind. These nervous people must be taught how to think
                logically and reason calmly, and in view of the present organization of society and
                its agencies of  physical, mental, and spiritual
                relief, I cannot see how this work can be effectively carried out except by the
                medical profession.


              Another principle we must recognize is that whenever public, or more properly,
                social hygiene, is brought into conflict with personal hygiene, the, public, social,
                or national hygiene must be given precedence. The welfare of the whole people is
                never to be sacrificed for the supposed welfare of an individual; in other words,
                the hygiene of the family-- for the family is the social unit of the nation-- is to
                stand out pre-eminently as the all-important necessity in the development of the
                mental and physical well-being of civilized society. Nerve stamina is the one
                national resource which needs to be conserved.

              Partridge well summarizes the general principles of nervous hygiene as follows: 
                  
                     In every nervous individual, the habit of too great intensity of
                      mental activity must be cured or controlled. For tension is one of the
                      universal faults of the nervous life. In all cases it will be found that
                      something remains to be learned in this regard. To this end emotions that goad
                      on the mind to over-activity must be attacked. Interests must perhaps be
                      readjusted, ideals modified, and wishes abandoned. Here, too, is the problem
                      of rest, of relaxation, both in its mental and physical aspects.

                     Invariably there is some degree or form of excessive
                      individuation. Here enters the problem of the adjustment of the individual to
                      society. The questions must be asked how the work can be made more social; how
                      the relation of self-interest and work as social can be made more normal; how
                      emotional causes of strain and isolation can be eliminated. Interests must be
                      trained to this end. The problem of the recreational life arises.

                     Always there is some degree of mental disorder. Experience is
                      never organized with ideal completeness. There is mental confusion. To
                      overcome this is essentially a work of education. It is preventive. The mind
                      must be trained by being organized.

                     The fourth general conception for the control of the nervous life
                      is that the organism, mind and body, is an energy system. It can be exhausted,
                      restored, controlled, both by mental and by physical means. As a machine the
                      body has its definite laws, its optimum mode of working to produce the most
                      power from its supply of energy. This optimum mode of living must be called in
                      to attain  this ideal. A regime of treating the
                      body and mind must be adopted, not for a week or a month, but for a
                      lifetime.
                  
                
              
            

            
              HEREDITY AND PROPHYLAXIS

              Space forbids our entering into a lengthy consideration of heredity in relation to
                the human nervous system and its derangements. We will have to be content at this
                time with the statement of the fact that nervous disturbances and diseases are more
                largely hereditary than other sorts of human disorders; in fact, as shown in earlier
                chapters, there is an hereditary element in almost every typical case of nervous
                derangement.

              The proper place, of course, to begin the prophylaxis of the nervous system is with
                one's ancestors; but since the choosing of our ancestors is quite beyond the range
                of possibilities, we are forced to begin the consideration of the prophylaxis of the
                nervous system at a time which corresponds with its earliest appearance in the
                embryological metamorphosis of pre-natal life; in other words, the thing of first
                importance in the attainment of the healthy nervous system in the child is to
                provide the expectant mother with an abundance of good food, pure water, and to
                surround her with a wholesome, sanitary, and happy environment.

              While we have emphasized in a former chapter the fact that scares and frights on
                the part of the mother have absolutely nothing to do with the "marking" of children,
                it is our duty at this time equally to emphasize the fact that the general physical
                health, particularly the nervous state of the expectant mother, may become so
                disordered and deranged as greatly to affect her general health and physical
                well-being, and in this way, she is rendered utterly incompetent properly to nourish
                and upbuild the physique and nervous system of the unborn child. And it is in this
                very manner that the physical condition of the mother may react to
                the detriment of the nervous development of the child.
            

            
              POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE HYGIENE

              Personal hygiene consists of two phases: first, positive, those rules or laws of
                life defining what we should do; and second, 
                negative, those rules or laws of life defining what we should not do. The positive
                hygiene of the nervous system dictates that we should think, work, rest, and sleep
                evenly and regularly; that we should cultivate the social instincts of the race and
                occupy the mind with thoughts that are wholesome, uplifting, healthful, and
                beautiful. The negative hygiene of the nervous system warns us away from the shoals
                and rocks of intemperance, overwork, inordinate mental application, and those
                personal or social pursuits which are vicious and debilitating, admonishing us to
                shun fear, anxiety, worry, and depression.

              The secret of success in the management of the nervous system is centered
                principally in avoiding all those causes which make for nerve over-taxation,
                irritation and subsequent break-down. We are in possession of no sort of medical
                magic which will enable us to remove the results of a nervous hereditary legacy; but
                it is entirely possible to take a human nervous system, very weak from heredity, and
                so to guard, mould, and train this faulty nervous mechanism in its youthful
                unfolding as to develop a vast array of counterbalancing possibilities which are
                latent within the individual, and thus to create a set of opposing neurological
                forces which will be able almost, if not altogether, to overpower and overcome the
                manifestly inherited and undesirable nervous weaknesses.

              If fond parents would only overcome all prejudice, rise above their slavery to
                conventionalities and fashions, and so raise and train their little boys and girls
                as to develop their weak points, repress deformities, and encourage symmetrical
                growth and development of the nervous system, much could be done to lessen the
                growth of that great and constantly increasing army of neurasthenics, hysterics, and
                other neurotic weaklings.

              The keynote of nervous prophylaxis is this: do not make yourselves sick by
                artificial means; that is, by worry on the mental side, and by various poisonings on
                the physical side. Abstain from all poisonous and pernicious sorts of
                self-gratification, train the nervous system to lead an orderly, systematic,
                temperate, and controlled existence. To sum up: avoid fear and worry and all their
                psychic accompaniments on the mental side; while you avoid alcohol, tobacco, and
                other narcotic and  stimulating drugs, including tea
                and coffee, on the physical side.

              Regarding this positive mental discipline, Dr. Dubois says: 
                  Let us always maintain this smiling courage; it should not be a fierce and
                    bitter stoicism, but an easy valor like that of the gentlemen of olden times,
                    who so dexterously wielded the rapier. We must put on this warlike frame of mind
                    in the morning; we must make our moral toilet and re-clad ourselves in our coat
                    of mail. We can then say to ourselves: "Whatever the day may bring of
                      physical fatigue, intellectual work or mental emotion, I am ready; my powers
                      are sufficient and there is a margin to spare." Another simile often comes
                    to my mind, when I feel weakness beginning in the face of the task to be
                    performed: "Forward! Let the band of the regiment play, and the step will become
                    light-hearted."
                
            

            
              CHILDHOOD NEUROLOGY

              The hygiene of the infant's nervous system begins with the first day of life and
                consists in keeping it in a reasonably quiet, darkened room for the first few days.
                As the baby grows older, do not allow the fond friends to bounce it on the knee,
                throw it overhead or toss it up in the air. These hair-raising experiences are
                exceedingly deleterious in case the child should have a sensitive or delicately
                balanced nervous mechanism. Do not fuss over the babies. Just let them grow up, take
                good care of them, give them plenty of food, water, and sleep.

              As the children grow older, avoid all causes of depression, worry, or fright.
                Especially avoid threats of the "boogy man," the "bad man," and all the "boo dark"
                sort of stuff that frightens the young mind by day and terrorizes it in dreams by
                night. Be careful fully to explain even the stories of adventure, the Indian
                stories, etc., so as not to leave too vivid an impression on the young mind, and
                thus,train away from these "terror-dreams" of the night season. The young mind is
                very susceptible to these impressions of fear, and tyrannical terror is generated
                within these little souls that sometimes lasts throughout a lifetime. We not
                infrequently find ourselves as physicians struggling with these children as grown up
                men and women, trying to overcome their ever-present fears-- those deep-seated
                apprehensions which have become almost a part of their mental  and nervous nature-- and which had their origin in the "scares" and
                "frights" of early childhood.

              Keep the little ones away from funerals, tragic scenes, and all other depressing
                experiences, which so indelibly impress their plastic minds and so persistently
                linger in the soul to harrow and torment them in the years which are to follow.
            

            
              EARLY SELF-CONTROL

              While the child's nervous system is unfolding and developing, let him grow up in a
                natural, playful, and healthful manner, giving attention to but a single factor, and
                that the element of discipline and self-control. It is my firm belief that the child
                which is not taught self-control before it is six or eight years of age, seldom, if
                ever, acquires a satisfactory self-control in after life; at least, if he does, it
                is by sheer dint of persistent and long continued effort, all of which would have
                become second nature to him had he been trained into this fundamental requisite of
                moral happiness and mental health, when he was a baby. What can you expect of an
                infant in after life who is taken up and coddled, rocked, and danced about every
                time it opens its mouth and emits a healthy holler?

              The hygiene of the child when it reaches the school age is a great subject in
                itself, and would require a volume adequately to cover it. In this chapter we can
                only call attention to the great importance of medical inspection in the public
                schools-- a system designed early to detect the presence of adenoids in the child
                and thus avoid the subsequent effects of these pernicious growths on the nervous
                system. Medical inspection would early detect the child of retarded mentality, or of
                nervous tendencies toward chorea, or St. Vitus' dance; would early detect the
                presence of eye difficulties and direct the fitting of proper glasses and thus avoid
                the frequent nervous effects of early and severe eye strain. The lighting and
                ventilation of the school room, the arrangement of the seats for the prevention of
                spinal curvature, recreation periods, exercise-- all of these and many other related
                phases of hygiene are, directly or indirectly, factors in the hygiene of the nervous
                system in childhood.
            


            
            
              REST AND RELAXATION

              Before the adolescent period of life, growing boys and girls, as the result of
                their playful activities, are so tired out at night that they require little urging
                to take proper rest and they do not have to be taught how to relax. When asleep they
                are perfectly limp, entirely relaxed; but with the arrival of that period in life in
                which play begins to be decreased and work begins to intrude itself upon our mind
                and energies, there sometimes comes the necessity of relearning the art of
                relaxation-- learning all over again how to let go-- how really to rest while
                sitting, standing, or even when reclining.

              The nervous system is a difficult creature to educate, hard to train, but when once
                it learns a certain method of procedure or acquires a definite habit of behavior, it
                is equally difficult to unlearn its acquired habits and re-learn new and more
                desirable ones. The boy and the girl, if normal, naturally and instinctively know
                how to play and how to rest and relax; but we start in, sometimes altogether too
                early (especially in the case of neurotic and nervously weak children), to train and
                teach them how to work, and so sometimes by eighteen or twenty years of age we have
                so well trained them out of play and into work that they have quite lost the power
                to relax and rest. The nervous system has acquired the propensity of everlasting
                activity. Even sleep flees, and when the body is laid at rest, although imperfectly
                relaxed, the mind keeps pace, and hour after hour of the night season is spent in
                tossing about on the bed, while a maddening rush, a veritable deluge, of disordered
                and disconnected thoughts chase themselves through the brain.

              All of this might have been prevented by a simple, temperate, and sensible mode of
                living-- of both working and resting. Thus the art of relaxation, so well known in
                youth, would not have been lost in early manhood and womanhood; but the encouraging
                fact should be recorded right here, that it can always be regained. There is none so
                nervous, no victim of high tension, but who can re-learn once more and again
                re-acquire the blessings of peaceful relaxation, calm rest, and refreshing  sleep. These are all lost arts which can be wooed and
                won back again by proper habits of thinking and living.
            

            
              SOCIAL INTERCOURSE

              Long ago it was recorded in the Good Book that it is "not good for man to be
                alone," and whatever the significance of this statement as regards the domestic life
                of men and women, it is an absolute fact, well known to the neurologist, that it is
                not good for the nervous health of any individual to be alone; that is, it is not
                good for neurotic people to eat alone, or work alone, or walk alone, or to live by
                themselves. Social intercourse in the shop, at the office, in the home, is almost
                absolutely necessary for the cure of many of these nervously deranged and mentally
                disorganized individuals. I remember well the case of a young lady, twenty-three
                years of age, a stenographer, who, after all other efforts had failed to cure her
                nervous difficulties, was entirely cured within a year's time by finding a congenial
                position in an office where she also found another young lady of similar tastes,
                whom she secured for a roommate, and this social life (for these two girls became
                constant companions, bosom friends, veritable chums) supplied the additional aid,
                the absence of w tic rendered all other treatment futile.

              I have seen this thing over and over, again and again: the taking up of tennis, the
                joining of a club, getting interested in politics, preaching socialism, becoming
                interested in athletics, or getting married-- if happily it turned out well-- I say,
                I have seen all these things result in the cure of neurotics and neuroses, even
                after years of fruitless treatment at the hands of the most skillful physicians.
                Crowds are always helpful in the cure of neurasthenia.

              I enjoin my nervous patients that they must never be alone. When alone they only
                think of themselves, they become inordinately introspective and their thoughts are
                all wrapped in self-pity and self-sympathy. I have long since learned better than to
                take the neurasthenic out of the busy office and away from the rush of a great city
                and send him alone out into the country or off on some farm to rusticate and
                recuperate. They  invariably get worse. This country
                life is ideal for nervous disorders, but it must always be so arranged as to provide
                social life, companionship, and fellowship, for it is doubly true of the neurotic
                individual that it is "not good for man to be alone."
            

            
              ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING

              The economical and hygienic management and administration of one's nervous energies
                imperatively demand the thorough organization of one's business, household duties,
                and all other phases of mental and physical activity, along such lines as will
                provide for a practical and systematic control of one's daily life so as to
                facilitate the accomplishment of a maximum amount of work with a minimum of mental
                effort and expenditure of nervous energy. It is enough to give one nervous
                prostration to gaze upon the desks of some business men, to look into the system and
                bookkeeping of some professional men, and to examine carefully the routine of
                household administration in the case of numerous nervous housewives.

              This utter lack of system is responsible for increasing the nervous friction from
                fifty to one hundred per cent every day. Many neurotics who are wearing themselves
                out and who are always on the "verge of breaking down," if they would only learn how
                to organize their work and systematize their efforts, could do twice what they are
                now doing and have a colossal picnic while engaged in the task. By perfecting my
                system, I find I can work harder and harder with less and less nervous strain. I
                find that I am having real fun and enjoying the highest degree of health imaginable,
                doing what some people choose to call two or three men's work and yet I have
                abundance of time for recreation and numerous hobbies, even more time than I
                discover some men have who are wearing themselves out doing what would grudgingly be
                regarded as even one man's task; and it must be remembered that this system and
                organization also pertains to one's brain and mental activities. It involves
                concentration of the mind and a more or less complete control and direction of the
                mental powers, and does not consist wholly in the organization of one's business  and work by means of card indexes and other modern
                methods in office systematizing and business control.
            

            
              SAFE MARGINS

              Every man and every woman must sooner or later learn their own individual margin of
                safety in matters of nervous tension and over-exertion. Some individuals are born
                neurologically bankrupt and hence have but very meager margins of nervous safety.
                The slightest nervous overdraft in mental strain or over-work is sufficient to
                prostrate them. On the other hand, we discover those individuals who are born
                neurologically rich-- neurologic millionaires. During their life time they are able
                to both overwork and overindulge, and the nervous system, with its vast margin of
                safety, is able to stand the strain, while scores of their friends and observers,
                fellows of their social set or their business associates, who Were born with smaller
                nervous capital and margin, go down to wreck and ruin in their efforts to follow the
                pace set. And observation goes to show that many of the offspring of these
                neurological spendthrifts are born into the world more or less nervously handicapped
                as the result of this parental extravagance.

              Particularly then, for you, the reader, the most important thing is to determine
                personally your own margin of safety and then say to yourself, with religious
                positiveness, "Thus far shalt thou go, and no farther."
            

            
              NATURAL SLEEP

              Next to the power of relaxation while awake, the ability to enjoy sound sleep is
                the greatest requirement in the hygiene of the nervous system. The strongest nervous
                system will sooner or later be undermined by inability to sleep properly, although
                the influence of light sleep or lack of sleep on the nerves is greatly exaggerated
                in the popular mind. It is possible for nervous people to go for days and even weeks
                without sleep, without being seriously affected by this experience. The notion that
                one is liable to lose one's mind and go insane as a result of a few days' or weeks'
                insomnia is altogether erroneous.

              

              Forel says: 
                  To supply nourishment to the nervous system is not sufficient in itself; for a
                    continuous exertion of the neurones finally reduces them to a state of
                    exhaustion which may be so marked that it can be shown under the microscope in
                    the ganglion cells. (Hodge.) Hence time and rest must be given to build them up
                    again through the blood. Simply sitting or lying down gives opportunity for this
                    to the spinal cord and ganglia; but the brain, the organ of thought, requires
                    sleep. In other words, the cerebral neurones which have been working together
                    must be relieved from their concentrated activity of attention. The importance
                    of sleep as rest for the brain has been much misunderstood. The more we work
                    mentally the more sleep we require. But strenuous muscular exertion in what we
                    call "bodily" activities, such as walking, riding, digging or factory work,
                    means work for the brain, too, and also requires sleep.
                

              But when it comes to the treatment and cure of the different nervous states, sleep
                is our great ally. It is necessary carefully to canvass the patient's experience to
                ascertain the causes of insomnia and then faithfully work for their removal. Diet,
                constipation, circulatory disorders, fears, worries, muscular tension, too much or
                too little physical exercise, ventilation of the bedroom, water drinking, disturbing
                night noises, these and a host of other factors, must all be inquired into and
                remedied.
            

            
              DIVERSITY OF OCCUPATION

              A lot of nervous people are never going to get well unless they either learn to
                like the job they have or else trade it off and get one that they can like.
                Satisfaction with one's work, the ability truthfully to say, "I like my job" and say
                it with a zest, is one of the secrets of success in the treatment and cure of
                nervousness. I have sometimes found it desirable to advise a complete change in
                vocation. The confining, grinding, taxing, long-hour occupations are all
                contraindicated in neurasthenia and its allied nervous conditions. On the other
                hand, it makes no difference how ideal the sanitary, health, and other surroundings
                of a position may be, if it is one of solitary employment, it must be rejected; as
                we have already state neurasthenics must not live by themselves, much less work by
                themselves.

              

              Regarding the value of well-directed work, a well-known authority has said: 
                  If any one exercises only one given activity, such as a definite muscular
                    movement, the muscle in question undoubtedly becomes very strong and so does the
                    corresponding path of neurones. But then everything else can be stunted. The
                    same is true of a person who spends his whole life riding to death some one
                    circle of ideas or feeling or habit. In this way people who are not exactly
                    crazy can become monomaniacs; like the chess-player whose whole life is filled
                    with chess, the mother whose love for an only child so out-grows all other
                    feelings that it degenerates into an idolatry that is highly injurious and leads
                    to all sorts of follies, or the man who has turned all his energies to a petty
                    invention that is going to make him rich, and wears himself out, often for
                    nothing. All these one-sided exercises involve a stunting of the other brain
                    activities, and unless they be exercised in the useful arts, they seldom lead to
                    anything profitable. A good hygiene of the nervous system thus includes an
                    harmonious exercise of all parts of the nervous life, of concrete
                    sense-perception, of all muscular actions, of intellect, of feeling, of will,
                    and also of imagination, the combining tendency which opens new pathways for the
                    brain's action. By means of a proper systematic training in every sphere one
                    becomes not only happy, but free and rich; rich not always in money, but in
                    capacity for work, and free from the slavery of superfluous and injurious needs;
                    happy in the joy of difficulties overcome as well as in the feeling of health
                    and strength, of increased efficiency, independence, and adaptability.
                
            

            
              NATURE CULTURE

              There is something peculiarly uplifting and healing in getting near to nature's
                heart. It is good for the nervous system to send a young couple out studying botany
                or zoology; or to find the neurasthenic woman working in the garden with her husband
                or with a congenial nurse. All of the modern fads embraced within the term of
                "return to nature" are of value in the management of these nervous disorders,
                provided the social element is not omitted. By no means, however, should hygiene
                despise art and science and their products, but, on the contrary, it should make
                clear to itself which of them are favorable to a healthy normal development of our
                civilized races and which are harmful.

              

              The true art of a sound nerve hygiene thus consists in fitting culture properly to
                'Nature'; i.e., in eliminating as far as possible from culture all injurious and
                unnecessary excrescences which run contrary to the modified conditions of human
                life.

              This is the advantage that comes from taking up fads; whether it be tango on the
                one hand, with its physical action and exertion, or ethical culture, psychology, or
                Greek literature on the other. The reading of the book alone at home would never
                produce the brilliant results that are to be observed as the result of pursuing
                these "culture studies" in small classes; and all this is simply due to the fact
                that it is the social association, the class spirit, the pursuit of some goal in
                association with and in the company of other human beings-- that is the
                  secret of the cure.

              Christian Science and kindred cults do a great deal toward managing their "cures"
                by their weekly associations, their testimony meetings, for in this way the patient
                once cured finds himself enrolled in the ranks of an earnest company who stand for
                certain ideas and ideals, and he will hardly dare to desert the flag of his new
                found religion for a sufficient length of time even to recognize the pain of a bona
                fide headache. And so the patients of the various "liquor cures" add much to the
                permanency of their cures by associating together in clubs, meeting together to
                recount their experiences, and such a feeling of human loyalty and patriotism comes
                to pervade their minds that they would not think of getting drunk and thus deserting
                the noble ranks to which they belong. And all of this is psychologically sound, and
                we must further recognize that it pervades even the religious circles, and that many
                a moral conflict has been won and a spiritual victory achieved because of the
                strength acquired through the social meetings of the various religious
                denominations. And again the Good Book was psychologically sound when it admonished
                the faithful, "neglect not the assembling of yourselves together," and, "speak often
                one to another."
            

            
              RECREATION VS. PLEASURE SEEKING

              Recreation is one of the fundamentals in the cure of 
                nervousness. On the other hand, I am coming more and more to believe that mere
                pleasure seeking-- the pleasure seeking of the selfish and sordid sort that is so
                fashionable today-- is coming to be one of the great causes of our modern
                restlessness and nervousness. The highest form of recreation from the standpoint of
                curing the nervous patient is that sort of recreation which embodies the outdoor
                life, more or less physical activity in the midst of a wholesome environment, and at
                the same time affords the opportunity of social intercourse; and still further, in
                order to be ideal, this social intercourse should be of the altruistic sort, that
                is, the neurasthenic should be, in the midst of all these ideal surroundings, doing
                something for somebody else. In this way his mind would be effectively and ideally
                taken off himself and placed upon another human being. This is the ideal method of
                mental substitution, which is so effective in the management and cure of nervous
                disorders.

              Theater going as a rule is not good for the graver nervous disorders. The
                ventilation is usually bad, the patients have to sit comparatively quiet in a seat
                for several hours, they sometimes mentally associate or connect themselves very
                vividly with some character upon the stage, the association subsequently being
                depressing to the mind and discouraging to them. Theater going does not afford
                opportunity for free and helpful conversation and that intermingling with one's
                fellows; and it is for this reason that tennis, athletics, automobiling with the
                family or with a group of friends, cross country walks, strolls in the parks, or
                boating, with other forms of outdoor exercise and association, are found to be more
                helpful and effective as curative diversions in all these different sorts of nervous
                disorders.

              The neurasthenic will seldom get much help out of solitary globe-trotting, or other
                forms of diversions and amusements which are wholly selfish and self-centered.
                Altruism as a mental state and philanthropy as a mode of life represent the ideal
                attitude of the nervous patient who would speedily achieve a cure.

              Forel has well said: 
                
                  Moreover we must banish pleasure-seeking (but not pleasure itself) from our
                    lives. Every pleasure cultivated for its own sake leads to ennui and disgust and
                    injures the nervous health. Every healthy enjoyment must be earned by an
                    harmonious mode of life. It is a pleasure to sleep, even on a hard bench, if you
                    are tired, or to eat crude dishes if you are hungry. To drink pure water is a
                    healthy enjoyment if you have a natural thirst, and it does not injure one like
                    the satisfaction of the artificial thirst for alcohol that results from
                    poisoning.
                
            

            
              NERVOUS HYGIENE OF WOMEN

              A whole volume could be written on the special hygiene of the feminine nervous
                system, but on the whole it does not differ markedly from that which we are here
                considering. There are certain factors to which attention should be called and which
                we have noted in former chapters, respecting the appropriate teaching of the young
                girl who is just blossoming into womanhood-- the hygiene of adolescence. Again the
                hygiene of the nervous system becomes specially pertinent in connection with the
                menstruation period, and it is at such times that the nervously inclined,
                high-strung woman should obtain a sufficient amount of physical rest and nerve
                relaxation; and it should be possible to do this without falling into that sort of
                semi-invalidism which such women so often and so unfortunately acquire, at least
                when they are not forced to go about their regular pursuits by the necessity of
                earning their own livelihood.

              We have already noted the special hygiene and care that are so imperatively
                required, and so seldom adequately practiced, during pregnancy; and then again there
                is a special hygiene of the nervous system to be thought of following childbirth.
                Some of our most deplorable cases of insanity are those which follow upon the stress
                and strain and toxemia of pregnancy and childbirth. We believe that many of these
                cases could be prevented if proper care was taken of the over-wrought nervous system
                during this critical period.

              The only other special period of life in which the woman may be regarded as
                requiring special hygienic care is that of menopause, commonly known as the "change
                of life." It is true  that certain nervously
                predisposed women, as it were, "go to pieces" at this time but it is the author's
                opinion that this is largely a matter of suggestion. They remember other women who
                "went to pieces" at this time, or perhaps they had a mother or aunt who almost lost
                her mind during "the change," and they have grown up with this fool notion so deeply
                rooted in their minds that when they in turn arrive at this time of life, they begin
                to over-exaggerate and misinterpret every little feeling and sensation to such an
                extent that they soon find themselves wrought up to such a pitch of anxiety and fear
                that they are forced to recognize that something is really going wrong with
                themselves.

              In other words, it is my belief that from half to three-quarters of all the
                troubles associated with the change of life, outside of a few minor disturbances,
                such as hot flashes, etc., are entirely in the mind of the patient, and in most
                cases could have been prevented, and can be stopped by proper mental direction,
                self-control, and an adequate understanding as to just what is taking place in the
                human system at such times.
            

            
              THE UNMARRIED AND CHILDLESS

              The nerve hygiene of single people, childless married people, old maids, bachelors,
                widows, and widowers, deserves special attention. As a class these people are given
                to a great deal of thinking about themselves, while they are usually quite without a
                definite aim and purpose in life. There is a great tendency for this class to become
                selfish, self-centered, while the tender emotions of natural affection and love are
                so little exercised that the unselfish social instincts become stunted. There is a
                great tendency to develop a peculiar temperament and an eccentric disposition.

              When a woman has neither a husband nor a child to love, she is altogether likely to
                develop an inordinate fondness for angora cats or lap poodles. Likewise, when men do
                not have their better natures drawn out and their unselfish instincts developed by
                the responsibilities and care of a family, they become, as a rule, more and more
                self-centered in all their thoughts and plans.

              

              It is absolutely necessary in the interests of nervous hygiene that all persons
                without family and all married persons without children should develop some
                specialized hobby in art, science, literature, or philanthropy, and assiduously
                devote themselves to their choice-- literally to bestow their heart's affection upon
                their work, in the absence of husband, wife or children. A failure to have some
                definite humanitarian object upon which to bestow one's affections, upon which to
                lavish one's labor, will be attended by the penalty of developing the hermit's
                disposition; unhappiness and disease can be the only result of such a solitary
                existence. If intelligent men and women will not marry and have children, then
                nature exacts, as the price of their continued health and happiness, that they raise
                up and nourish worthy objects of science, art, literature, and sociology.
            

            
              THE HYGIENE OF OLD AGE

              It is a pitiful spectacle to observe the old man who has worked so hard throughout
                life, in order to earn the right to rest in his old age, trying to enjoy idleness
                and rest while engaged in a round of efforts to achieve selfish enjoyment. Such aged
                business men and others who have led an active life sooner or later discover that
                they cannot gracefully rest when they grow old. It is only the lazy idler who can
                enjoy aimless pleasure-seeking in old age. The nervous hygiene of the aged, while it
                requires that the pace should be slackened and the work decreased, nevertheless
                demands that the old man or the old woman shall work on and on until the last breath
                is drawn. There can be no happiness in store for the men or women who retire from
                business or from life's duties unless they find other and equally absorbing lines of
                work or endeavor with which to engage their minds and occupy their energies.

              The pessimistic old gentleman and the quarrelsome old lady, as a rule, are those
                who have tried to stop work in their old age. They are endeavoring to sit down in
                peace and quiet and enjoy life, but they are rewarded only with peevish discontent;
                they become a bore to themselves and a nuisance to their loved ones; they blame
                their children and grandchildren and  other relatives
                for their misery, and all of this could have been prevented had their powers been
                kept employed in useful work to the last., The most beautiful picture of the
                eventide of life is the old man with the sound brain, who works steadily on until
                the end, radiating optimism, sunshine, and wisdom to all about him, proving himself
                the valued counselor of his younger associates and effectually demonstrating that
                the evening of life is the most beautiful period of existence when one's energies
                are employed in an appropriate manner and when one's unselfish interests are kept in
                action to the very end.
            

            
              NERVOUS HYGIENE OF THE NEUROTIC

              The nervous hygiene of the neurotic, the nervously defective, etc., will be
                considered throughout the remaining chapters of this work. In the case of sadly
                defective and neurotic children, the advantages of country training homes should be
                extended to the city schools where such children are in attendance.

              The more highly defective members of society, who border on the criminal classes,
                vagrants, incurable alcoholics, etc., should be forcibly detained on special farms,
                with suitable work shops and agricultural pursuits, and work should be made
                compulsory.

              Special sanitariums need to be established to be devoted to the psychological and
                physiological training of men and women who possess a defective nervous system or
                deficient mind control. In these institutions, farm work and other trades should be
                taught and thus work should be combined with suitable social opportunities, while
                the entire bend and trend of these organizations should be highly spiritual and
                largely altruistic. Last but not least, more thorough study and earnest attention
                must be devoted to the practical questions of improving the nervous quality of human
                stock we are producing-- scientific eugenics.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The physician of the future will undoubtedly pay much more attention
                  to the hygiene of the nervous system.

                 Whenever personal and social hygiene conflict, social hygiene should
                  take precedence.

                

                 The general principles of nervous hygiene must deal with over-tension,
                  excessive individuation, mental confusion, and the economics or nervous
                  energy.

                 While the prophylaxis of the nervous system is largely ancestral, and
                  but slightly pre-natal, nevertheless much good can be accomplished by early
                  discipline.

                 Nervous hygiene is divided into two phases, positive-- those things
                  which we should do; negative-- those things which we should not do.

                 The keynote of nervous hygiene is to refrain from over-work,
                  over-worry, and self-poisoning.

                 It is sometimes necessary to assume a warlike mental attitude, and
                  move forward in spite of emotional obstacles.

                 The nervous system of the infant requires even care and should not be
                  startled, jolted, or otherwise over excited.

                 Children should not be threatened, frightened, depressed, worried or
                  otherwise have their emotions over-stimulated.

                 The child that is not taught self-discipline before six or eight
                  seldom acquires self-control gracefully.

                 School hygiene embraces medical inspection, ventilation, lighting,
                  seating, exercise, and adaptation of work to mental strength and nervous
                  vigor.

                 Nervous relaxation is inherent in the youth, but it is often lost as
                  a result of vocational training and industrial tension.

                 The lost arts of rest and relaxation can always be regained by proper
                  habits of thinking and living.

                 If "it is not good for man to be alone," it is positively dangerous
                  for neurasthenics to live an isolated or solitary life.

                 Outdoor living, social intercourse, and altruistic pursuits are the
                  essentials of nervous hygiene.

                 Loneliness is the bane of the neurotic. Crowds are always helpful in
                  the cure of neurasthenia.

                 The economy of nerve energy requires the thorough organization of
                  business, home, and one's daily work. Lack of system increases nerve
                  friction.

                 Lack of system and not overwork is what produces the nervous
                  breakdown of so many people.

                 Determine the nervous margin of safety for your own organism, and
                  then command: "Thus far shalt thou go and no farther."

                 Next to relaxation, sleep is the great requisite of nervous hygiene.
                  Sleep is the great ally of neuro-therapeutics.

                 Vocational contentment, environmental satisfaction, and diversity of
                  mental occupation, are the essentials of nervous diversity of mental occupation,
                  are the essentials of nervous hygiene. Rest is the keystone to the arch of mental
                  healing.

                

                 Mental monotony predisposes to monomania, while singleness of purpose
                  may destroy the mental balance.

                 There is a peculiar uplifting and healing in getting near to nature's
                  heart. Nature study is good for "nerves."

                 Fashionable fads are useful only when pursued in classes. Association
                  is the secret of their success.

                 Cured patients when associated in clubs, churches, etc., develop a
                  therapeutic patriotism which is invaluable to permanency.

                 Recreation is a fundamental of nervous hygiene, while selfish
                  pleasure seeking is of but little value.

                 The special nervous hygiene of women has to do with adolescence,
                  maternity, and menopause.

                 The unmarried and childless have need to bestow their affections upon
                  some adopted child of art, literature, or philanthropy.

                 The hygiene of old age requires that the mind should be kept
                  appropriately active unto the very end.

                 The hygiene of the neurotic can be efficiently carried out only in
                  special schools, institutions, and sanitariums.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER XXII MODERN PSYCHOTHERAPY-- MENTAL
              MEDICINE

            PSYCHOTHERAPY, or "mind cure," has been utilized by medical and
              religious practitioners in the treatment of disease and for comforting the afflicted
              for thousands of years. It is true that very often those who were most successful in
              this practice of mental medicine were entirely ignorant of the laws of mind and matter
              which were being thus utilized. Psychotherapy is not a new remedial science-- "mind
              cure" is not a new healing art. The twentieth century merely marks the era in which
              mental medicine emerged from the empiric darkness of the medieval ages into the
              daylight of rational inquiry and scientific investigation.

            
              THE EVOLUTION OF PSYCHOTHERAPY

              At the close of the nineteenth century, mind cure was still largely practiced by
                clairvoyants, quacks, and the enthusiasts of newly discovered religions, which were
                largely promulgated by means of this so-called divine healing adjunct; but with the
                dawn of the twentieth century, as a result of the accumulating and apparently
                remarkable cures which had been wrought by the increasingly numerous psychic cults,
                the attention of the medical profession was arrested for a sufficient length of time
                to enable the doctors to begin a serious investigation into the subjects of mental
                medicine, mind cure, and so-called divine healing.

              And so the day has arrived when the physician recognizes mental influence as both
                the cause and the cure of numerous functional, nervous, circulatory, and digestive
                disorders. It is no longer necessary for a patient actually to become mentally
                deranged in order to command the serious attention of scientific medical men.

              

              The moment the medical profession seriously turns its attention to the subject of
                mental medicine, that very moment the remarkable and sometimes apparently miraculous
                mind cure stunts of the psychic cult promulgators begin to lose their exclusively
                religious significance. For with the banishment of religious superstition and
                psychological ignorance, the majority of these remarkable mind cures are found
                orderly to take their place in line with those cures of disease which are wrought in
                compliance with the laws of mind and matter; and so, today, we are in the midst of
                that fanatical and unsettled transition period which attends all methods of healing
                as they pass from the empiric stage of superstition into the hands of scientifically
                trained practitioners. It is characteristic of all schools of medicine and methods
                of healing that in their early years unwarranted and extravagant claims were made in
                behalf of their curative powers.
            

            
              REACTION TO MATERIALISM

              Humanity seems to revise its beliefs and progress in its philosophy only in cycles
                of time, measured by the life of one or more generations. Accordingly, following the
                centuries of superstition, the latter part of the nineteenth century witnessed the
                development and widespread acceptance of scientific and rationalistic materialism.
                This reaction to the superstition of past ages was carried too far and was, in turn,
                during the opening of the present century, followed by a new reaction of spiritism,
                as exemplified in the phenomenal growth and development of the numerous present day
                psychic cults and healing "isms." The need of the hour is for men and women who will
                painstakingly examine and calmly investigate the facts and phenomena of mental
                healing, and thus be in a position intelligently to lend their influence to
                steadying and staying the attitude of the public mind on these matters sufficiently
                to enable us to arrive at sane and fundamental conclusions.
            

            
              SCIENTIFIC MIND CURE

              It is not strange that when modern psychotherapy began first to be widely preached
                under the guise of "religious healing,"  that
                thousands of depressed, despondent, and grief-stricken souls, bound in their prisons
                of fear and shackled with sorrow and worry, should have found peace of mind and cure
                for their functional nervous ailments in these new psycho-religious teachings. Many
                of these souls had honestly tried both orthodox religion and orthodox medicine, and
                we should be charitable in criticizing them for taking up with teachings which at
                least gave them some temporary peace of mind and transient health of body.

              Mind cure is now passing as a religion, a cult, or a creed. It is rapidly assuming
                that scientific role in which it is known as psychotherapy, and is
                being practiced in a sane and sympathetic manner by regular physicians, or by
                experts who have had special training in psychology in addition to their medical
                experience.
            

            
              WHAT IS PSYCHOTHERAPY?

              Psychotherapy is a term we now use to include all methods of mental training and
                mental healing designed to relieve those victims of functional nervous disturbances
                and defective mental control, commonly diagnosed as neurasthenics, hysterics,
                hypochondriacs, etc., and includes all scientific methods of mental medicine such as
                suggestion, diversion, persuasion, reeducation psychanalysis, etc.

              In the chapter on "fastidious suffering" attention was called to the fact that not
                all our sensations and pains are real; that is, they are not actually physical in
                their origin, and it is to the relief and cure of this great group of disorganized,
                dissociated, turbulent, uncontrolled, and haphazard sort of mental and nervous
                behavior which, in one form or another, so pathetically afflicts such large numbers
                of people, that modern methods of psychotherapy must be directed as the chief and
                most effective curative agent.

              Regarding the manner and method of exciting the activity of the sensory mechanism
                of the body, Dubois says: 
                  If we look at the various stimuli which determine the reactions of our
                    different organs, and which in fact make life, we shall find two classes: 
                    

                       Physical stimuli, acting upon our five senses and determining
                        reactions directly.

                       Psychic stimuli, in which, even when of sensorial origin, the
                        reaction is only brought about by mental representation, i.e., follows upon
                        thoughts and ideas.
                    
                  Allowing that in final analysis these two orders of stimuli may be reducible to
                    material elements, it is none the less true that there are notable differences
                    between them.
                  The physical stimuli, both physiological and artificial, are in their essence
                    more or less known; they are measurable and always identical in their action.
                    These are the reactions that are studied in physiology. Let us note that these
                    reactions are all possible in natural or induced sleep; the experiments of
                    vivisection are most usually performed in the state of narcosis. These stimuli
                    are also interchangeable and we can equally excite the motor and sensory nerves
                    and those of the special senses by their natural stimulus or by mechanical
                    irritants, such as a blow, heat, or electricity.
                

              For a more complete consideration of the psychology of associated memory, complex
                formation, and dissociation of ideas, which are involved in the practice of modern
                psychotherapy, the reader is referred to the author's previous work, The Physiology of Faith and Fear, or the Mind in Health and Disease, where
                these matters are more fully discussed than will be possible in this work.
            

            
              PSYCHIC SEED SOWING

              The human mind with its vast and wonderful realms of idea-association and
                imagination is a wonderful soil which the expert psycho-agriculturist may
                ingeniously cultivate, and in which he may intelligently sow the seeds of faith and
                courage and confidence. Human beings are highly suggestive; in fact, the human baby
                is the most highly imitative creature in the world, and the utilization of this
                tendency to absorb ideas and imitate the actions of other people constitutes the
                basis upon which the art of suggestion-- the science of suggestive therapeutics-- is
                based.

              The majority of neurotics are highly suggestive, and this fact accounts for the
                easy manner in which they reason themselves into all sorts of trouble. Upon the
                other hand, under  the care of the psychotherapist,
                this suggestive tendency is swung around into helpful and beneficial lines, and is
                strikingly utilized in bringing about the cure of the patient.

              As will be more fully shown in later chapters, this method of treating mental
                disorders may take the form of autosuggestion-- suggestions given by the patient to
                himself; or therapeutic suggestion, as in the case of where suggestions are directed
                to the patient's mind by his friends or his physician. We also have environmental
                suggestion, as patients literally absorb, quite unconsciously of course, ideas from
                their associates and surroundings.

              The suggestion may often be hidden, even as it is in the case of the regular
                practice of medicine, for it is undoubtedly true that the more faith the patient has
                in the drugs he takes, the more good he gets from them. We have to recognize the
                psychic element even in the use of electricity, baths, and massage, and, of course,
                it becomes the exclusive element operating in the various cults of mental healing,
                including Christian Science.

              Suggestion-education is what led the common people into their disastrous
                patent-medicine habits. They soon discovered that the doctor had a drug for every
                symptom, for every disease. They observed that the final result of his numerous
                well-charged-for-visits were usually a row of empty medicine bottles sitting on the
                table; and so instinctively, seeking to obviate this expensive middleman, they went
                direct to the drug store for their medicines, and, after reading the literature and
                the rosy testimonials accompanying their patent remedies, they came to acquire great
                faith in the new medicine, took it, and usually got well.
            

            
              PSYCHIC SUBSTITUTION

              It is absolutely out of the question in the treatment of mental and nervous
                disorders to hope for success in the task of immediately getting a settled idea out
                of the mind. In the early treatment of these nervous patients it is necessary to
                practice the art of psychic substitution, that is, faith ideas must be substituted
                for fear notions, health confidence must be put  in
                the place of disease worry, good ideas must be suggested and cultivated so as to
                overcome and eliminate erroneous mental notions; and it is in this way, very often,
                long before the real causes of the disturbance are permanently removed, we are able
                to bring about great relief to the patient-- greatly to improve his symptoms and
                relieve his mental torture; in fact, in many cases which are at the bottom
                incurable, great good can be accomplished by relieving the obsessions, crystallized
                fears, and otherwise setting in order the confused methods of thinking.

              This method is carried out not only along the lines of idea-substitution, but also
                in the field of physical activities-- motor substitution. Patients are directed in
                new and different lines of physical employment with a view of causing the mind to
                follow in the same paths, and thus divert it from the old channels of worry and
                self-contemplation.

              It is possible to carry out this principle of substitution even in the realms of
                emotion and affection, and as will be noted more fully in a later chapter,
                remarkable cures are wrought by leading self-centered individuals to fall in love
                with someone, or with art, or literature, or a fad, and thus to transplant their
                affections from self to the external world.

              It is not at all such a difficult task to change a patient's mind when he is at all
                susceptible to reason and when he has confidence in the physician; and while it is
                true, during the earlier part of the treatment, their old ideas will come galloping
                back into the mind as soon as the patient has left the office; nevertheless,
                faithful and intelligent work will ere long begin to show results, and the patient
                will begin to present a different mental attitude, one which shows that the mental
                habits are steadily changing and improving. 'Perseverance is the watchword of modern
                psychotherapy.
            

            
              SYMPATHY AND PERSUASION

              It is not uncommon to see a very sick patient wonderfully improved immediately
                after the physician's visit, even before a sufficient time has elapsed to allow any
                medicine or treatment to produce this effect. This immediate improvement is the
                result of the sympathy shown by the physician to the patient,  and of the confidence exercised by the patient in the physician-- in his
                skill and ability to cure.

              And so the ideal physician is not merely a prescriber of medicine, but he is a
                minister to the mental disorders of the patient, yes, he is even a minister to the
                souls of the sick. I am beginning to think that as the science of medicine
                progresses and our methods of healing become more and more precise, the future "art
                of medicine" lies in this great and formerly neglected domain of mental ministry to
                the minds of mankind.

              The art of persuasion is one of the most valuable assets of the physician who seeks
                to help those patients suffering from "nerves." Gentle firmness, positive precision,
                together with personal sympathy, seldom fail to win the confidence, respect, and
                loyalty of the patient to such an extent as to generate a sufficient amount of
                therapeutic patriotism as will lead him to persevere in his treatment to a
                successful termination.

              The pleasant smile and the hearty handshake extended to the patient as he enters
                the office, coupled with the farewell assurance of success as he leaves, does the
                patient just as much good as the instruction and suggestions imparted during the
                course of the consultation. The successful physician, at least in these matters,
                accomplishes far more good by his words than by his remedies.
            

            
              REEDUCATION OF THE WILL

              It is the reeducation of the will with which we are most concerned in modern
                psychotherapy. Suggestion represents the general method of our treatment, while the
                reeducation of the will is the goal toward which we are steadily aiming, to enable
                the patient to become the master of himself, to reinstate the will in its place of
                sovereign ruler over mind and body.

              The author has had the greatest success in treating these patients by the direct
                and honest conversational method, first recommended by Prince and Dubois. This
                consists in systematically and judiciously laying the real facts before the patient,
                and while physical treatment, such as baths, etc., is administered to alleviate his
                symptoms, the real dependence to effect a cure is placed upon this regime of
                reeducation.

              

              And so it is possible, without resorting to any sort of artifice-- without telling
                the patient any therapeutic lies or without practicing any other sort or form of
                deception to keep a nervous sufferer's mind intelligently focused upon the truth--
                upon the fact-- that he is surely going to get well. It is the
                reiteration and repeated inculcation of this truth into and upon the patient's mind
                until it becomes a settled conviction in his soul that constitutes the very basis of
                cure.

              It is sometimes necessary in the reeducation of these patients, in the persuasion
                of their minds out of the diseased ruts of their habitual thinking, actually to
                stand up before them, to wax eloquent, to plead their cause of health as an advocate
                would seek to save his client before the bar. Argument after argument must be
                presented, illustration after illustration must be utilized, to drive home to the
                patient the error of his thoughts and the sin of his thinking. It is necessary
                literally to hammer the new ideas on the mind during the earlier stages of
                treatment. It is never safe to tell the patient of a diagnosis without at the same
                time emphatically assuring him that the disease is curable. The emphatic assertion
                of curability must unfailingly accompany diagnosis.

              And so the reeducation of the will is accomplished by simple and direct methods of
                psychological teaching, by earnest and eloquent inspiration of the patient, and by
                suitable social support in the way of help from the domestic circle and other
                helpful association with strong-willed and uplifting minds. And it is even possible
                in the case of other patients who may be hopelessly sick, greatly to help them by
                proper advice and suggestion.

              Billroth once said: 
                  The patient comes to the physician for advice, consolation, and hope; if you
                    give him nothing of this, you may be an excellent diagnostician and
                    prognosticator, but you are no doctor.
                
            

            
              PSYCHANALYSIS

              It not infrequently happens that some group or groups of ideas which become
                formulated in the mind, for some reason or other, are unacceptable to the mind as a
                whole. The  personality-- the mind-- fails properly to
                assimilate this particular group of ideas. The mind is active to subjugate these
                ideas and emotions, it tries to submerge and suppress. But it often appears that
                this temporarily suppressed and rejected complex has acquired the power and dignity
                of a separate and automatic existence; and thus it continues to act the role of a
                mischief-making intruder in the commonwealth of the mind, just as some foreign body
                would produce troubles in the physical organization. And thus it would appear that
                many forms of psycho-neurosis, such as worry, or obsession, are indirectly due to
                this incomplete digestion, this crippled mental assimilation and elimination.

              Professor Freud years ago called attention to the fact that a great number of the
                common psycho-neuroses owe their origin to a protracted conflict or disagreement
                between two groups of ideas or two inharmonious modes of thinking. To illustrate
                this theory of the origin and nature of many of our mental difficulties, let us
                suppose that a highly conscientious and religious person should passingly conceive
                the idea of committing some shocking crime. The thought of this wickedness arises in
                his consciousness, but it so shocks and horrifies his moral sensibilities that he
                immediately represses and disowns the idea. Every time this group of ideas arises in
                his mind he again promptly denies his responsibility therefor. He resists, combats,
                represses, denies, and fights the idea, and all the while his very mental warfare
                constitutes an ever-present source of auto-suggestion which tends to grow stronger
                and stronger, impelling him to do the very thing he is fighting to keep from
                doing.

              The methods of psycho-analysis would suggest that the tempted and tortured soul
                promptly recognize this wicked group of ideas as a dangerous intruder into an
                otherwise peaceful, well-disposed intellect, and that its existence be fully
                acknowledged. Further, instead of making incessant resistance, he should begin the
                process of full acceptance and immediate digestion and assimilation of the idea, and
                then promptly and effectively eliminate the whole thing from the mind, leaving
                behind only the memory of having effected its overthrow.
            

            

            
              AUXILIARY CURES

              In this chapter I have endeavored briefly to summarize and concisely to outline the
                various accepted methods of practice in modern psychotherapy. The remaining chapters
                of this book are devoted to a more full and complete delineation of the practical
                application of these various methods; and it will be best at this time, only for the
                purpose of completing our summary, to note the various auxiliaries that are called
                into service to aid us in the treatment and cure of these various forms of nervous
                disorders. By auxiliary methods, we refer to the great and helpful influence of
                religious faith, the profoundly quieting effect of spiritual confidence, the sublime
                peace and reconciliation which accompanies the presence of an eternal hope within
                the human soul.

              As auxiliaries in the treatment of psychic disturbances should also be mentioned
                the work, travel, adventure, rest, and study cures, together with all other means of
                diversion and digression, which are more fully and appropriately considered in the
                chapters which follow.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Mind cure is as old as the race. Psychotherapy is not a new healing
                  art.

                 Mind cure is evolving from its former empiric crudeness into a
                  generally recognized and accepted science.

                 The moment the medical profession espoused psychotherapy, mind cure
                  was robbed of its superstitious and supernatural elements.

                 The spiritistic mind cure cults of today are but natural reactions to
                  the materialism of the last century.

                 Mind cure is now rapidly passing as a religion, a cult, or a
                  creed.

                 Psychotherapy embraces all methods of mental training designed to
                  prevent, to relieve, or cure functional disturbances.

                 The nervous mechanism of the body may be excited by both physical and
                  psychic stimuli.

                 Man is highly suggestive; the human baby is the most highly imitative
                  creature in the world.

                 The field of remedial suggestion consists of autosuggestion,
                  therapeutic suggestion, and environmental suggestion.

                 Therapeutic suggestion may be indirect or hidden, but the direct or
                  educational method is preferable.

                

                 Psychic substitution is the secret of success in the elimination of
                  undesirable ideas.

                 Sympathy and persuasion are all-powerful in the hands of the expert
                  psychotherapist.

                 The pleasant smile and the hearty handshake are more effective in the
                  neuroses than all of the doctor's remedies.

                 The goal of psychotherapy is will-training to make the patient a
                  thorough master of himself.

                 Reeducational therapeutics should be practiced without artifice--
                  free from therapeutic deceptions.

                 Reeducation is accomplished by direct teaching, eloquent inspiration,
                  and helpful association.

                 Psychanalysis represents an effort to analyze, diagnose, and
                  eliminate harmful ideas by the newer methods suggested by Freud.

                 The auxiliary cures of psychotherapy embrace religious faith, the
                  work, travel, rest, and study cures.
              
            
          


          
            

            CHAPTER XXIII PSEUDO-PSYCHOTHERAPY-- MENTAL
              DECEPTION

            FROM time immemorial the shrewd and unscrupulous have been able to
              make a living by deceiving and imposing upon their credulous and unsuspecting fellows.
              The world's greatest fakers and imposters have had sufficient wisdom and foresight to
              perpetrate their pious frauds upon the public under the guise of mental culture cults
              and divine healing religions. Centuries of education has destroyed but little of our
              belief in omens, portents and charms; has done little to lessen our love of the
              occult, the mystical, and the marvelous.

            
              MEDICAL SUPERSTITION

              Notwithstanding the present day widespread diffusion of scientific information,
                thousands of people believe in charms, they worship at shrines, they adore relics,
                they have such faith in the lurid advertisement of a patent medicine that it
                sometimes appears to really do them good in spite of the deleterious drugs it often
                contains. (Fig. 10.)

              It must also be evident that if people had the same faith in themselves that they
                have in the nostrum vender and the exponents of commercialized religion, and pursued
                the common sense methods of combating functional nervous disorders suggested by
                medical science, they would have the moral satisfaction of achieving a cure, without
                becoming the stultified dupes of designing frauds. It is evident that the so-called
                diseases over which the wonder-working charlatan triumphs so signally, are not real
                diseases at all, but merely symptoms of the various functional nervous disorders
                already considered.

              People still have the bumps on their heads felt by professional phrenologists,
                while palmists earn an easy living holding their clients' hands and scrutinizing
                their faces. Fortune tellers thrive as long as the authorities do not lodge them in
                jail, and  clairvoyants still practice and prosper
                where legal obstacles do not prevent them. Al of these various forms of fraud and
                fakery, and the ease with which they are perpetrated upon the twentieth-century
                public, only serve to demonstrate how susceptible is the average mind to deception
                along the lines of mental healing.

              When some striking phenomena suddenly appears, claiming to be the new and only
                genuine religion direct from Heaven above, and offering as credentials of its divine
                authenticity the fact that its high priest and chief promulgator can lay his hands
                upon the heads of the sick and afflicted and immediately they are healed-- spring up
                healthy and whole-- then hundreds of honest souls are ready to forsake all and
                follow the healer and his new religion. (See Fig. 10.) Old Brother Barnum said that people liked to be humbugged,
                and it seems to me that they sometimes greatly prefer divine-healing humbugs. There
                is that mystical fascination-- that enthusiasm of the crusaders-- connected with
                these new and spectacular religions that appeals with peculiar force to the human
                mind, especially if the human mind happens to be of that peculiar variety which
                dwells in the free-thinking, adventurous brain of the sovereign American
                citizen.

              Just a few weeks ago there came to see me a splendid young woman who was almost a
                complete nervous wreck as a result of going to consult a palmist, who had discovered
                some evil omen crossing her "life line," which she suggested might mean serious
                trouble in the patient's later life. This the patient interpreted as a liability to
                go crazy, and she proceeded immediately to set all her mental and nervous powers at
                work along the lines of doing the very best she could to go crazy just as soon as
                possible; and not until we had repeatedly assured her, and many times admonished
                her, that the palmist knew nothing about what she was talking about, while we did
                know something about what we were saying when we assured her that there was no
                evidence of insanity in her case, did she return to a normal mental condition. She
                had been out of sorts with her family and unable to earn her living for over
                eighteen months as a result of this single visit to the palmist. (Fig. 10.)
            

            

            
              SPIRITISM AND THE SUPERNATURAL

              Thousands of educated people who cannot be imposed upon by clairvoyants, palmists,
                or crystal-gazers, or who cannot be misled by the more palpable healing frauds and
                fakes, fall easy victims to the teachings of trance mediums and spiritualistic
                practitioners. (Fig. 10.) The psychology
                and physiology of trances and allied states I have fully considered elsewhere and
                space will not permit of their discussion at this time. Suffice it to say, the
                majority of trance mediums, no doubt, honestly believe themselves to be the channel
                of communication between Heaven and earth, and it is their enthusiasm and earnest
                confidence in their own work, coupled with the fact that they are sometimes really
                insane, that gives such peculiar influence and power to their teaching.

              And in this connection we might treat of another group of modern mental teaching,
                such as mental telepathy, magnetic healing, etc. However remarkable may be the
                phenomena apparently connected with so-called telepathic experiences, we can only
                herewith record the fact that there exists today no scientific proof of the
                existence of any such a thing as mental telepathy.

              I do not for a moment undertake to say that I am personally able to explain. all
                the phenomena connected with spiritualistic mediums and their seances. Personally, I
                am a believer in supernatural influences; but I am not at all persuaded that all
                supernatural agencies are good in their influence, and from what I know of spirit
                mediums and spiritualism (if it should prove in the end to be supernatural in
                origin), I think I have already made up my mind as to what sort or manner of spirit
                is connected with these manifestations/. I look upon spiritualism as a problem
                largely outside of the pale of scientific investigation, although many phases of the
                phenomena are subject to both physiological and psychological study.

              Whether cure and health are worth while at all, if the intellect must be thus
                deceived and stultified by cheap performances and crude mysticism, may be well
                doubted. And it may be questioned, too, whether such cures are really genuine cures
                at all.
            

            

            
              Fig. 10. Fraudulent Methods of Healing
            

            

            

            
              HYPNOTISM

              Hypnotism may consist of the hypnoidal state, in which the patient is really awake
                but in a passive state of mind, ready to receive the suggestion and teachings of the
                healer, on down through increasing passivity to a profound state of hypnosis, in
                which the patient is oblivious of his surroundings and under comparatively full
                control of the hypnotizer.

              Hypnotism is basically wrong, as a method of strengthening the intellect and
                educating the will, in that it leads its victims to depend more and more upon the
                hypnotic operator. Hypnosis is certainly not a natural state of mind; it is highly
                artificial and unnatural. Some authorities have endeavored to show that hypnotic
                sleep was analogous to natural sleep, but this is certainly a mistake. The hypnotic
                state may in some respects resemble the somnambulistic state, but somnambulism is
                not a state of natural and normal sleep. Hypnosis is not one of nature's remedial
                agents.

              We believe that human beings are free moral agents, kings and queens in their own
                domains, and that the Creator never intended that our minds should submit to be
                dominated by, be dictated to, or be controlled by any mind in the universe except
                that of man's Maker. Hypnotism necessitates the surrender of the mind and will in a
                peculiar way to the influence of another personality; and we regard these procedures
                as unscientific and un-Christian, and in the highest degree subversive of individual
                strength and stamina of character.

              The employment of hypnotism in psychotherapeutic procedure is with the idea of
                increasing the suggestibility of the patient and facilitating the formation of new
                and healthy complexes in his psychic life. While it must be admitted that hypnotism
                does greatly increase suggestibility, it has been found that this state is transient
                and the desired effects are not permanent. It further appears that, when skilfully
                made, suggestions are just as acceptable and influential to the waking mind as to
                the sleeping; while the newer processes of reeducation and psychanalysis can in no
                possible way be assisted by the employment of hypnosis. Hypnotism has been
                enthusiastically tried-- and found woefully wanting. Its value is demonstrated only
                in  certain rare cases, and in connection with
                perfecting the mental diagnosis in certain difficult and obscure psychic
                disorders.
            

            
              WHAT HYPNOTISM IS NOT

              While the author has come to recognize hypnotism as having but little or no value
                in the practice of psychotherapy, nevertheless, there are certain misconceptions of
                this practice which should be set right in the public mind. These wrong ideas of the
                nature and practice of hypnotism may be summarized as follows: 
                   Hypnotism is in no way related to spiritism and kindred adults.
                    Hypnotism is a phenomenon pertaining to natural law, aid unconnected with
                    spiritism.

                   It is generally supposed that a person to be hypnotized must lose
                    consciousness, but this is a mistake; many practitioners of hypnosis seldom
                    place their patients beyond that drowsy stage known as the hypnoidal state, in
                    which the subject is really awake and conscious.

                   It is commonly believed that weak-minded people form the best
                    subjects for hypnotism, but this also is a mistake. Strong-minded and
                    well-educated persons, when willing, are most readily hypnotized.

                   While most people can be hypnotized, if they are willing, no person
                    can be put into a hypnotic sleep against his will.

                   Hypnotism cannot be used to compel persons to commit crime.
                    Hypnotized subjects will never do things which are contrary to the standards and
                    practices of their moral nature.
                
              
            

            
              CHRISTIAN SCIENCE

              The most notable of the modern healing cults is Christian Science. As someone has
                said, Mrs. Eddy was shrewd enough to make a "cult out of common sense and a religion
                from a page of psychology." Christian Science is extraordinarily worldly-wise. Its
                founders took well into account the psychological fact that the mind is ruled by
                emotions rather than by reason.

              Christian Science and kindred healing cults do not fail to recognize that diseased
                ideas and unhealthful emotions cannot  be gotten rid
                of by the mere forming of resolutions and the swallowing of nauseous drugs.
                Accordingly, they set to work, by means of a sort of mental homeopathy, to attack
                and overthrow superstition and credulity with a more powerful superstition-- with a
                system of teaching that must be accepted by faith because it is impossible of
                understanding in the light of reason and judgment. Christian Science thus compels
                nervous sufferers unconsciously to use certain latent energies which they little
                suspected were resident within their own minds, and Mrs. Eddy made doubly sure that
                her followers would be forever delivered from the realms of imaginary disease by
                starting out with the denial of the existence and reality of all diseases.
            

            
              WHY PEOPLE BELIEVE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE

              Thousands of people believe in so-called Christian Science, not because they
                understand it or accept all its teachings, but because, in the absence of any better
                teaching, they were literally driven to it in an effort to find the peace and
                happiness which come as a result of deliverance from fear. Christian Science and its
                philosophy are certainly not upheld by the conclusions of modern science; and as far
                as the author has been able to discern, Christ never on any occasion required His
                followers to dethrone their reason and believe in His formulas and teachings in a
                blind and unreasoning manner.

              Christian Science seems to be the emphasis of the denial element in psychotherapy.
                Its disciples deny the existence of those influences which they are desirous of
                evading or avoiding. Christian Scientists think of health and happiness as the
                natural heritage of man, and, believing this to be true, they lay hold of these
                influences as their normal mode of life, and have probably experienced them more
                than any other body of professed Christians in the world.

              It is certainly a sad commentary upon the orthodox teachings of professed
                Christians, who claim to follow the teachings of Jesus, to contrast the downcast and
                discouraged attitude of most church members with the good cheer and happiness which
                the average Christian Scientist enjoys, in spite of the  confusing teachings of his system. It is certainly greatly to the credit of
                Christian Scientists that they have got what health and happiness they have out of
                the truth at their disposal, and their success certainly constitutes a stunning
                rebuke to the modern teachers and exponents of Christianity.
            

            
              HOW CHRISTIAN SCIENCE WORKS

              An illustration of the practical outworkings of Christian Science is afforded by a
                patient who came to us for a surgical operation, but who had been formerly cured of
                stomach trouble by Christian Science, and this is the story she told of her
                deliverance, through Science, from the terrors of dyspepsia.

              "I read in Science and Health that one should take no thought
                  about what they should eat," [this patient seemed to take it for granted that
                this thought was original with Christian Sciences forgetting that it was Christ who
                said take no thought what ye shall eat'] "and I at once saw what a mistake I had
                  been making in studying foods and trying to diet myself, and I resolved to follow
                  the new light. I paid absolutely no attention to my diet from that time on. My
                  appetite immediately improved and my digestion was soon perfect. I began to
                  increase in flesh; in fact, I was a marvel to all my friends and neighbors, and
                  even the former physician of our family admitted that something had happened which
                  was inexplicable to him."

              Now, the psychology of this case is very easy of understanding. This highly
                suggestible patient received as a divine command the statement she read from Mrs.
                Eddy's book. Immediately the stomach was relieved from the nervous and incessant
                watchcare it had been subjected to (remember, no self-respecting stomach ever does
                good work when it is watched), and so her digestion began to improve, her new state
                of mind was better than any known medicine, her mind was diverted and her attention
                focused upon her daily efforts to comprehend and unravel the incomprehensible and
                the unravelable teachings of Mrs. Eddy's book; and the result of this indifference
                to food and the earnest effort to obey the injunction "take no thought what ye shall
                eat," enabled her to give little thought to what she did eat, while she took no
                thought as to how she would digest  it. This in itself
                was sufficient tremendously to whet her appetite, and the end of it all was, her
                dyspepsia was cured. It was nervous dyspepsia to begin with-- psychic
                indigestion.
            

            
              THE ELIMINATION OF FEAR

              Christian Science practices and prospers because it does, for the time being, quite
                effectually eliminate fear. Its followers make no effort to appeal to the student's
                reason, they deal with faith and emotion. Fear is overcome by the emotion of faith.
                It is true, thinly, but nevertheless effectively, disguised as a system of religious
                belief. I quote one of their own writers:

              
                Mortal ills are but errors of thought; diseases of mortal mind, and not of
                  matter; for matter cannot feel, see, or report pain or disease. Disease is a thing
                  of thought, and fear is the procurator of the thought, which causes sickness and
                  suffering. Remove this fear, by the true sense that God is love-- and that love
                  punishes nothing but sin-- and you can then look up to the loving God, and know
                  that he afflicteth not willingly the children of men, who are punished because of
                  disobedience to His moral law. His law of Truth, when obeyed, removes every
                  erroneous physical and mental state. The belief that matter can master Mind, and
                  make you ill scientifically, is an error that Truth must destroy.
              

              The wonderful change that comes over some nervous women after joining Christian
                Science or a kindred cult, is sometimes astonishing. Their families are at last
                released from their long bondage to and suffering from nervous whims, little by
                little the patients regain their equilibrium and ere long are able to again take
                their place among the world's workers, and it is no wonder that other sufferers who
                witness the restoration of one such nervous wreck back to spheres of usefulness and
                influence, are themselves inspired to believe in Science as the great medicine and
                religion of the hour.
            

            
              SELF-DISCIPLINE

              Christian Scientists themselves recognize that it is nerve training and mind
                discipline that effects these cures, but they equally recognize that a scientific
                propaganda, as such, would be shorn of its great power of religious suggestion-- of
                supernatural  authority and of confidence commanding
                possibility. That some of their teachers do recognize this is to be true is shown
                from the following quotation from Christian Science Healing, Its
                  Principles and Practice:

              
                We think everybody knows and accepts that the nobler you become, the nobler your
                  influence. And yet we are aware there are persons who would agree to all this, and
                  nevertheless be frightened away by the word, self-training. A little practice will
                  make felt what no telling or talking could get any one to believe, that the better
                  you prepare yourself, by proper use of Denial and Affirmative, the clearer you
                  become; the more rapidly you can perceive the way to remove error (disorder) and
                  so heal. In fact, it might be said that every bit of such training you give
                  yourself could actually be counted as in immediate connection with every bit of
                  good you achieve. This may be either in future healing, by perceiving what error
                  you have to cast out, or in daily life, by casting it out, almost without
                  recognizing what you are doing. The saying over of any denials or affirmations is
                  but one part of self-training, of course; upon the saying must follow duty.
              
            

            
              EXPLANATION OF THE CURES

              Christian Science in common with numerous other of the modern psychic cults
                operates for the cure of disease along the following general lines:

              
                 They all are a powerful popular protest against mode materialism and
                  rationalism.

                 These psychic systems of healing are an unconscious protest against
                  wholesale drug-medication and other unnatural and irrational methods of treating
                  disease.

                 Christian Science and kindred cults are easy to believe: they involve
                  but little self-sacrifice or personal humiliation.

                 These new psychic cults are pleasant to the natural man, in that they
                  deny or ignore the orthodox doctrines of sin, and exalt erring man to the place of
                  a god.

                 Christian Science and allied cults are new and therefore entertaining;
                  they are more or less mysterious and therefore fascinating; and this latter
                  property they will undoubtedly ever retain. Their teachings are unquestionably
                  unfathomable-- they will always be surrounded by the aroma of mystery.

                

                 All their psychic teachings afford immediate deliverance from an
                  accusing conscience.

                 Christian Science prospers because it eliminates worry,
                  notwithstanding the fact that its philosophy is unscientific.

                 These occult teachings chloroform the judgment and reason. They are
                  systems of blind and emotional belief, and involve the unconditional surrender of
                  the mind to the thing believed.

                 Christian Science represents the uplifting power of faith and strong
                  resolution, and only goes to show the powerful influence of the mind over the body
                  when thoroughly dedicated to a single idea, even though that idea be essentially
                  wrong.

                 It is a species of mental deception which the believer can be taught
                  to practice upon himself; and the very deceptiveness of it constitutes both its
                  charm and its compelling power over those who surrender to it.

                 Last, but not least, many of these systems of healing, including
                  Christian Science, have gone on in the world in spite of their error, because they
                  do contain a grain of truth not fully recognized by either scientists or
                  religionists-- the influence of mind over matter.
              
            

            
              NEW THOUGHT

              I would have my readers understand that I do not confuse New Thought with Christian
                Science. There can be no questioning the fact that the various wings of the New
                Thought movement have done a great deal of good in the world. They have brightened
                up the minds and cheered up the souls of thousands of despondent and downcast
                sufferers. The one redeeming feature about the psychic teachings of the New Thought
                advocates is that they have not sought to promulgate a new religion or establish
                themselves as the only and genuine religious teachers for the present generation.
                They have not clothed their every utterance with the assumption of infallibility.
                They do not claim to be all-inspired, as do the Christian Scientists, and there is
                much to be commended in the method and manner of their work, although I am decidedly
                adverse to this business of taking an old truth, restating it, dressing it up in new
                and  modern language, and then offering it to the
                world as a new discovery in the realms of philosophy or religion.
            

            
              DOWIEISM

              Of all modern healing cults which confuse and confound sickness and sin, and claim
                to heal all disease by means of prayer, Dowieism stands out as the most recent and
                best known. Its basic error consists in regarding sickness and sin as analogous,
                and, therefore, if God will forgive sin in answer to prayer, why will He not also
                cure sickness in answer to prayer? But sin and sickness are not analogous. You can
                be forgiven for sowing thorns and thistles in your backyard, but that does not
                remove the thorns and thistles after you have allowed them to grow up. It will take
                hard work in addition to prayer, to clear the thorns and briers out of the
                backyard.

              The secret of the success of these bogus systems of divine healing, as noted in
                former chapters, is the power of suggestion-- nothing more, and nothing less. The
                future will no doubt witness the birth of many new systems of so-called faith
                healing. They are all based upon the psychology and physiology of faith and fear, as
                well as upon the error that when one is sick, his body is possessed of a devil, and
                if the devil could only be cast out, the sick one would immediately be restored to
                health.
            

            
              THE IMMANUEL MOVEMENT

              It would seem hardly fair to consider the Immanuel movement at the close of this
                chapter, for it has far more to be said in its favor than any of the psycho-religio
                propagandas thus far considered. While this unique religious movement is directed at
                the conquest of fear, its founders seem to proceed somewhat from the Christian
                Science point of view, in that they seem to have recognized that common sense and
                reason were of little value in checking the mental, moral, and physical depredation
                of tyrannical emotions; in fact, it would seem to the writer that after recognizing
                and admitting this fact, they deliberately set about to overthrow the strongholds of
                human emotion by some sort of scientific exorcism, not, of course, by the crude
                method of medieval times, but by a persistent, 
                well-organized plan of strengthening and upbuilding the patient's faith in the
                curative power of Jesus Christ and the healing possibilities of the Gospel of
                Christianity when properly understood. Its founders evidently understood the
                tremendous healing powers of faith and joy, when allowed to work their full
                influence in the human mind and body.

              The Immanuel movement seeks to maintain this desirable attitude of mind by
                developing the graces of the Christian character, by the continuously increasing
                contemplation of that wonderful picture of Christ Jesus going about on earth two
                thousand years ago healing the sick, soothing the suffering, and raising the dead;
                and who can deny but that this unique and extraordinary picture is able to exert a
                far greater psychotherapeutic influence upon the human life than all the essays of
                all the inspirational optimists of all time?

              The optimistic spirit which the Immanuel movement seeks thus indirectly to foster
                and strengthen, the New Thought propaganda seeks to present more directly from a
                psychological standpoint; they (the New Thought teachers) preach optimism as a
                doctrine, a mode of life, a religion; and optimism, it must be confessed, has a
                great influence in producing a sort of environmental blindness or rather a desirable
                non-resistance to those things which it is impossible to remove from one's
                environment.

              What Immanuelism seeks to do by theology, New Thought would do by psychology; that
                is, to bring the nerve forces of the body into working harmony with the automatic
                physiological processes of the organism, and this harmonious co-partnership is
                produced by the cultivation and domination of the joyful emotions of optimistic
                faith. The New Thought disciple practices "going into the silence" to attain these
                desirable ends, while Immanuelism advocates relaxation and a special state of mind
                associated with prayer. The ultimate psychology of the two methods is about the
                same.
            

            
              THE MASTER KEY OF HEALING

              And so it would appear that any practice, procedure, belief, medicine, cult or ism
                which is able to generate faith and destroy  fear,
                possesses definite curative powers in the treatment of mental and physical disease.
                The fact that the sick and the suffering recover under such treatment in no way
                proves that the religion, ethics, or other ideas or ideals of those who treat them
                are either right or wrong.

              And so the law of mental healing-- faith is a health-producer; fear is a
                disease-producer-- operates when it is consciously or unconsciously utilized by any
                and all persons, at any and all times, and in any and all places. If John Alexander
                Dowie prayed for you and you got well, your recovery in no wise constitutes evidence
                that Dowie was a better man than the minister who prayed for you before, when you
                did not get well. It simply means that Dowie's means and methods-- his dress and
                personal appearance, what you had heard about him, and what he said to you--
                resulted in making such a mental impression upon you that faith came into its own,
                took possession of your mind, routed fear, and banished doubt. You threw your whole
                mind into the one grand conclusion that you were going to be healed, and many who
                did this were apparently healed, and, not understanding the laws of mind and matter
                underlying their healing, they immediately espoused the peculiar cause of the
                healer, adopted his beliefs as their beliefs, his religion as their religion, and
                his way of living as their way of living; and in this way vast churches; cults, and
                isms have been built up in both ancient and modern times.

              And so it becomes apparent that the healing of disease by means of faith, or by
                so-called prayer or by any other method, in no wise proves that the healer is a
                special agent of God, that his religion is the one true belief, or that his ethical
                teachings are right. Faith is the master key which unlocks many an ancient medical
                mystery and explains many apparent modern miracles.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The world's greatest fakers have promulgated their pious frauds under
                  the guise of divine healing cults.

                 Centuries of education have not destroyed the popular belief in omens,
                  charms, shrines, palmists, clairvoyants, and other commercialized disease
                  remedies.

                

                 Spirit mediums and practitioners of the supernatural exert a great
                  influence over a large group of people.

                 Mental telepathy and kindred teachings are able to offer no scientific
                  proofs in support of their claims.

                 As a phenomenon spiritualism is largely outside the pale of scientific
                  investigation.

                 Hypnotism is basically wrong as a method of treating ordinary psychic
                  disorders and mental disturbances.

                 Modern psychotherapy successfully practices the art of suggestion
                  without incurring the risks and dangers of hypnosis.

                 Hypnotism is not a supernatural phenomenon, neither can persons be
                  hypnotized against their will or contrary to their moral nature.

                 Christian Science is a sort of mental homeopathy, as it attacks
                  diseased emotions with religious emotions-- supplanting superstition with greater
                  superstition.

                 Christian Science is the emphasis of the denial element of
                  psychotherapy in association with the great power of religious affirmation.

                 While Christian Science may be unscientific and un-Christian,
                  nevertheless, it is worldly-wise, psychologically practical, and therapeutically
                  successful.

                 Christian Science substitutes the effort to comprehend its teaching
                  for the patient's self-contemplation and disease worry.

                 Christian Science quite effectively eliminates fear and thus cures
                  worry.

                 Christian Science is a self-confessed system of self-discipline, of
                  will-training, promulgated and practiced as a religious system.

                 Christian Science is a reaction to materialism; a protest against
                  drugs, an antidote for fear, a poultice to the conscience, a psychological novelty
                  to fascinate the soul and occupy the mind.

                 New thought represents an effort to make a religion, a mode of life,
                  out of the doctrine of optimism.

                 Dowieism represents a great healing movement based upon the error
                  that sickness and sin are synonymous.

                 The Immanuel movement is probably the most scientific and Christian
                  of all modern pseudo-therapeutic methods.

                 Faith is the master key of mental medicine. Confidence is the
                  keystone to the arch of healing.
              
            
          

          
            
            CHAPTER XXIV THE ART OF THERAPEUTIC
              SUGGESTION

            IF THE influence of the art of suggestion in the realms of health
              and disease were better understood, there would be much less of superstition
              surrounding many an ancient miracle, and less of mystery attached to many present day
              remarkable and phenomenal cures of disease. The therapeutic methods of the ancient
              medicine man and the modern bogus healer are alike dependent on the curative power of
              "suggestion." They owe their healing results to the power of suggestion to generate
              faith and destroy fear; and by suggestion we mean the systematic use of any and all
              means which will result in the arousal of new ideas or set in operation other
              emotional processes which are able to exert a favorable or healing influence upon the
              mind of the patient. It is possible, by means of suggestive therapeutics, to banish
              fear and worry, and, as far as the immediate and physical effects are concerned, it
              matters little whether these therapeutic suggestions are true or false-- the immediate
              healing effects are just the same. Of course, the ultimate effects, in the case of
              false suggestion, upon both the mental and spiritual natures, is altogether
              unfortunate and undesirable.

            
              SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS DEFINED

              Therapeutic suggestion may be either direct or indirect. It may be persuasive or it
                may be educational in its trend. Again, suggestions may be true or false-- in fact,
                the majority of our suggestive therapeutics in the past has been tinged with more or
                less deception. Indeed, the very term itself, to many minds suggests a sinister sort
                of medical deception.

              The dictionary definition of the term "suggestion" does not set forth the idea of
                honest persuasion and indirect education,  and so
                nervous patients sometimes resent the term, feeling that it implies that their
                confidence is to be more or less imposed upon, that subterfuge are about to be
                employed in the treatment of their disorder. It must be explained to such patients
                that suggestion as used in psychotherapy (at least as I understand and use it)
                merely represents the preliminary and persuasive stage of educational therapeutics--
                that stage in which it is altogether necessary for them to experience the benefits
                of treatment, but in which it is not always possible fully to explain to their
                disordered reasoning powers the every detail and wherefore of the methods of
                treatment followed by their therapeutic teacher. And so I think in recent years the
                public mind has come somewhat to appreciate this new meaning which attaches to the
                term "suggestion," for we frequently hear such expressions as "that was a very
                suggestive book," etc.

              Forel has given us a very good statement or definition of suggestion as applied to
                medicine in the following language: 
                  By suggestion is understood a very peculiar kind of psychic (i.e., mental), or,
                    more properly, psycho-physical, reaction, in which an idea-- usually connected
                    with a perception-- becomes so intense and narrow, the mind becoming so filled
                    with "one idea," that this idea loses its ordinary associations with its
                    corrective counter-ideas, breaks violently through common restrictions, and
                    releases cerebral activities that are usually independent of it, and generally,
                    if not always, subconscious. Suggestion dissociates what is otherwise
                    associated. Brains in which dissociation is easy are therefore especially
                    suggestible. Suggestion generally releases those activities whose content is
                    such that they can be pictured by the senses, and does it in such a way that the
                    "subject" is unconscious throughout of the means by which it takes place and is
                    therefore astonished at what happens.
                
            

            
              THE PSYCHOLOGY OF SUGGESTION

              The three following paragraphs are from my work before referred to, The Physiology of Faith and Fear, or the Mind in Health and Disease.

              When an idea becomes uppermost in the human intellect, when a certain notion
                becomes set in the mind, there are only two ways of 
                removing it. One is by suggestion, and the other is by the development of the
                opposite ideas by a process of reeducation. Suggestion becomes then, next to
                reeducation, one of the most successful methods for changing, improving, cleansing,
                and strengthening the human mind.

              The marginal consciousness, by which I mean the consciousness of all ideas and
                emotions that are not at a given moment in the centre of the field of attention,
                while it is normally a beneficent servant, may, nevertheless, in a sense, tyrannize
                in our lives. This marginal consciousness is described by many as the "subconscious
                mind." Normally, I say, it is a beneficent servant, because in the marginal or dim
                consciousness are conserved all those ideas and other mental complexes which are not
                required to meet our present needs. They are conserved in such a systematic order
                that when, in the course of suggestion, any mental process comes into attention it
                brings out from this dim marginal area its appropriate supplement; and it is when
                this supplementary image discharges into motor activity that the course of
                suggestion becomes complete. This marginal consciousness is a tyrant when its
                contents over-freely and without system attach themselves to the contents of clear
                consciousness, and so disturb the balance of the mind and render unreliable the
                course of our judgments. Continuously, even without our apprehension, this marginal
                consciousness influences the character and the ebb and flow of the processes of our
                vivid consciousness. It is not something different and apart from our usual
                conscious life, but an integral part of it.

              The art of scientific suggestion consists in placing an idea in the mind in such a
                way and under such circumstances that it will become dominant; that is, the mind is
                caused to be possessed by that one idea. This dominant idea plays the rle of a
                liberator-- it breaks up harmful associations of ideas, and so creates an
                opportunity for the establishment of new and healthy groups of ideas. It brings
                about a dissociation between certain powerful ideas and physical actions, and often
                dissolves those physio-mental associations which are responsible for obsessions and
                other bad habits.
            

            
              SINCERITY AND TRUTHFULNESS

              It is my settled opinion that the greatest and most permanent good is to be
                accomplished by always telling the patient the truth. I do not mean by this that we
                should always tell our nervous patients the whole truth; but what
                I do mean is, that we should  not tell them anything
                that is intrinsically or fundamentally untrue.

              In so far as it is desirable to treat the patient by suggestive methods, let us
                base our curative suggestions upon good physiological and psychological law, for in
                this way, and only in this way, can we hope to build up a sure therapeutic
                foundation from which our healing endeavors can be carried forward to completion in
                sincerity and with perfect confidence.

              And so in our efforts to help the patient over his worries, we must recognize the
                possibility of using both true and false suggestions. True suggestions appeal to the
                reason, deal with facts, point out causes, and offer a cure which is rational and
                right. False suggestions (and the world is deluged with systems of mental healing
                based upon falsity and untruth) appeal to the imagination. They aim to give
                immediate relief although temporary; they aim to "heal the hurt of the daughter of
                my people slightly;" they seek to produce immediate effects, no matter at what
                future expense of pain to the body, disappointment to the mind, or destruction of
                the soul. All methods of sympathy, suggestion, and advice to mental sufferers should
                be based upon truth, free from falsity and deception.

              It is needless to add that, in the author's opinion, the art of making therapeutic
                suggestions is best practiced by making these impressions upon the patient's mind
                during the waking state. In the ordinary or average case I do not look upon
                hypnotism as of any real curative value, but have come rather to regard it as a
                hindrance to securing permanent results in psychotherapy.
            

            
              AN AGED REMEDY

              Suggestion is literally as old as the hills. It has always been the chief asset of
                the successful physician; and it has ever been a dominant factor in the work of the
                successful preacher.

              No more powerful testimony to the value of suggestion can be found than the very
                fact that there exist today scores of different methods of treating disease, some
                diametrically opposite, all of which are more or less successful. Various schools of
                medicine and the numerous therapeutic specialists are all more  or less successful in treating and apparently curing disease. John
                Alexander Dowie came along teaching the existence of a physical body afflicted with
                disease because the devil controlled it. He also taught that God heals disease in
                answer to prayer, thus destroying the devil's power. Dowie cured thousands. Mrs.
                Eddy and Christian Science teach that there is no physical body, no sickness; that
                these things exist only in the mind; and likewise they are able to cure other
                thousands. Both of these teachings cannot be true, yet both can cure disease. It is
                simply a problem in suggestive therapeutics, and the element of cure is not the
                correctness of either their physiological or their theological teaching, but rather
                the intensity and sincerity of the faith which the sick one exercises respecting the
                idea upon which he depends for healing.
            

            
              AUTOSUGGESTION

              The ideal method of treating one's mental difficulties is by means of
                autosuggestion. Form the habit of reasoning with and directly suggesting good ideas
                to your own mind, instead of allowing unfortunate combinations of ideas and feelings
                to possess and dominate your experience. Instead of always associating the feelings
                of physical fatigue with the idea of being cross and grouchy, try a little
                experiment in suggestive therapeutics on yourself and you will be surprised to see
                how quickly and effectively it will work. Some evening when you are completely worn
                out, on the way home reverse the usual association of idea and feelings from "tired
                and cross" to "tired and happy" and keep running over the new phrase in your mind,
                something after the following fashion: "Tired and happy"-- "tired and satisfied"--
                "tired but smiling"-- "tired and good-natured." You will then begin to smile at
                yourself. It will seem a bit funny at first, your smile will soon become contagious
                to the family and the entire evening at home will be quite different as the result
                of the auto-suggestion you have practiced upon yourself. I know this is true from
                personal experiences and every one of my readers also knows that this teaching is
                entirely true. We all know about these things, but we do not work at them steadily.
                One patient says he "frets  because he is tired." In
                point of fact, I think the principal reason he gets so tired is because he frets so
                much. We do not faithfully live up to the psychological light we already have.

              Again, it is sometimes necessary carefully to train one's mind to think positive thoughts; that is, instead of constantly saying to yourself
                "I can't do that," or, "I can't do this," turn the psychological tables suddenly on
                yourself, yes, literally surprise yourself by saying: "I can do this," and "I will
                do it," and the result of this sudden change of front, on your personality, will be
                that your indolent and rebellious mind will soon swing around into obedient lines,
                and you will soon find yourself accomplishing twice the work with one half the
                stress and strain.

              Some folks need to acquire the power of rising right up and "talking turkey" to
                themselves. A lot of good people are falling down in life, they are failing to make
                good, simply because they allow their own lazy brains and undisciplined minds to
                scare them-- literally to bluff them by constantly harping on their lack of ability,
                their lack of brains, and otherwise leading to such a degree of self-depreciation
                that they utterly fall down in the accomplishment of their life work.

              I stood up in my office a few years ago, and made a twenty minute speech to a
                brainy, talented ne'er do well, about twenty-seven years of age, and much to my
                surprise he pulled himself together, waked up and became a success in life. He has
                been simply doing swimmingly ever since, and I became convinced that there were
                large numbers of apparent failures in life who only needed that some good Samaritan
                should come along in the role of a psychological alarm clock to wake them up-- to
                set them earnestly and enthusiastically at work.
            

            
              THE OVERTHROW OF WORRY

              No amount of mental resolution and moral determination, in and of themselves, will
                be able to overthrow and cast out worry. Positive thinking is not only required in
                the battle against worry, but it is essential that our positive thinking shall also
                be opposite thinking. We must overcome worry with its opposite mental states; we
                must cultivate faith and trust.  This is the one vital
                factor in the permanent cure of worry: replace the worry thought with an opposite
                thought which will occupy the mind and inspire the soul. Drive out fear-thought by
                exercising faith-thought. This is the substitute cure for worry; and when backed up
                by the strong resolution of a determined will this method will always be found
                effective. Even in the moral and spiritual treatment of worry it is the substitution
                principle that works best. Replace the doubting, restless, and fretting attitude
                toward God, by a calm, confident, and trustful belief in the wisdom of the Great
                Mind which is directing the affairs of the universe.

              Have the moral courage to enforce your own anti-worry mandates. When you have
                commanded the mind to cease worrying, keep right after it and see that it does. In
                all these little things that harass one's soul, as some one has said, "Don't forget
                to remember the probability that you have not, as well as the possibility that you
                have, made a mistake."
            

            
              THE ART OF SELF-RIDICULE

              It is a great calamity to form the habit of taking one's self too seriously. Most
                of us take ourselves far more seriously than the world does. It is sometimes
                necessary to tell our melancholic patients that it is impossible for them to
                over-estimate the unimportance of things. Most nervous people need to learn how to
                become indifferent to their fears, their feelings, and their emotions.

              The art of self-ridicule-- the ability to discern the funny side of one's own human
                nature-- is a very effective health practice, a genuine mind healing procedure. It
                is a well known fact that sometimes when you are unable to argue with or reason
                people away from their worries, you can literally ridicule them out of their fears.
                You can sometimes help a woman to overcome her absurd fear of a tiny mouse by
                ridiculing her after all efforts to reasoning have failed. And so when logic is
                powerless to pry you out of the slough of despond, don't forget to try a little
                wholesome ridicule on yourself. As it were, step out in the crowd and take a look at
                yourself and don't be afraid to indulge in a hearty laugh when the ridiculousness
                   of your attitude is tardily borne home to your own
                consciousness.
            

            
              THE HABIT OF SELF-CONTROL

              The secret of success in the treatment of nervousness and cure of worry is all
                bound up m the attainment of self-control-- the science of self-mastery. Whatever
                the means of psychotherapy or the means of mental healing, the one great object is
                self-discipline-- mind training-- will power. The victor in the fight with fear--
                the soldier who vanquished his nerves-- is the soul that bravely dared to captain
                its own mind, who dared to out-general his perverted habits of thought in the great
                game of life, whose successful goal is the conquest and mastery of self.

              And so you, the reader, owe it to yourself to summon all possible spiritual help,
                moral resolution, and mental decision, to avail yourself of every physical means of
                grace to the mind, and then, having made a declaration of emancipation to set free
                the mind from the domination of worry and the body from the tyranny of vice, go
                forth into the world as sons and daughters of God-- in full command of all your
                mental faculties and in full control of every physical power.

              Let us master our mental moods, control our physical passions, and, from
                henceforth, be so free from our psychic whims, that we shall be able to sail
                straight away toward our goal of manifest destiny; no longer will we allow ourselves
                to drift along aimlessly as the rudderless, helpless bark we have been, tossed to
                and fro and up and down by every trivial sensation of pain, and driven off our
                course by the whimsical winds of unnatural fear and our own mental confusion.
            

            
              THE GOSPEL OF SURRENDER

              In the battle with "nerves" there never fails to come a time when the secret of
                success is to be found in graceful surrender. In every fight of faith to overthrow
                fear, the patient sooner or later reaches the place where, for the time being,
                farther progress is impossible, and graceful surrender-- peaceful non-resistance--
                is the only course left open. This is the  pass
                reached by the apostle Paul, when he so pathetically but bravely wrote: "I have
                learned in whatsoever state I am, there with to be content."

              It is sometimes extremely difficult to teach the nervous patient when to fight and
                when to surrender. As a general procedure I have advised them somewhat as follows:
                Assume a militant attitude toward your disordered nerves and disturbed mind; gird on
                the therapeutic armor, begin the healing fight, and remain in the struggle until
                both mind and body are well habituated to the spirit of the conflict, and then,
                before the depleted mental powers and the weakened nerve energies are completely and
                fully exhausted, learn how to relax, surrender, yes, even to laugh at and ridicule
                your fears and smilingly to ignore your sensations of distress and feelings of
                fatigue.
            

            
              CONTEMPLATION OF THE GREAT

              In this connection I cannot do better than to quote a clipping which has been sent
                me, accredited to Dr. Frank Crane and entitled, "The Practice of Greatness by
                Words:" 
                  You take exercises for the muscles of your arms, legs and back: why not take an
                    exercise occasionally for your soul?
                  Your spirit, or ego, or self, or whatever you may call that invisible something
                    that is more really you than your body; that something which thinks, loves,
                    feels, imagines, and wills is well worth a little training.
                  Here is a suggestion. There are certain great ideas, represented by certain
                    great words. These words have power-volts in their very sound. Every time you
                    think one of them you grow greater.
                  Take to bed with you the following seven words. As you lie, waiting for sleep,
                    say them over, one by one, to yourself. Or, better, take a half hour during the
                    day, in silence and solitude, and practice the feeling of these terms.
                  
                     GOD. Never mind about your belief or disbelief.
                      Say that word ten times, slowly, with pauses between. Think of what is above,
                      below, around, and in all things. Spread your mind out upon the universe.
                      Practice the sensing of the infinite.

                     STARS. Say stars. Think stars. Try to reach the
                      feeling of stars. Let your fancy climb to the top of the night sky. Get the
                      vibrations of those measureless distances, those suns, galaxies, sweeping  worlds; all silent, luminous, immense,
                      swift-whirling, yet orderly. Happy you if you can induce a bit of star feeling
                      within you!

                     MOUNTAIN. Repeat some names of individuals:
                      Mont Blanc, Himalaya, Orizaba, Matterhorn, Popocatepetl. Get your mind up
                      among the noiseless heights. Let the serenity, the eternity of the words
                      filter into you.

                     OCEAN. Go a-sailing, out of sight of land. Be
                      surrounded for a moment by waste, wild waters. See on all sides only horizon.
                      Stand, in your imagination, by the seashore. Hear the surf boom. Do not talk.
                      Do not make phrases. Feel!

                     TREE. Call to mind the most majestic tree you
                      know. Touch its rough trunk. Look up at its wide branches. Stand from it and
                      see its outline against the sky. Get some of the tree feeling into your
                      spirit. Think trees: it's a wonderful relief from thinking dishes and
                      dustrags.

                     DAWN. Think of sunrise, of the freshness of
                      life, of hopeful beginnings. Induce, if you can, a sense of sunrise.

                     MORE. It is a sonorous word. Repeat it--
                      slowly, significantly, and note how you grow. The word lifts you up, expands
                      you.
                  
                  Don't try to argue. Just say these seven words. Let them boom across your
                    consciousness. Somehow they will still and banish your littleness. You will come
                    to a great calm. You will have a sense of poise. You will get a sense of
                    remoteness from affairs. You cannot describe it, nor impart it. It is a
                    secret.
                  Your self-contempt will vanish. You will cease to think yourself a nothing, a
                    puppet insignificant. You will feel that you are, deep in your hidden life,
                    great and strong and wonderful. For who can think such thoughts and be wholly
                    little and contemptible ?
                
            

            
              PSYCHIC CONTAGION

              When a large number of susceptible individuals are exposed to a strong suggestion,
                there sometimes occurs a veritable epidemic of imitation-- psychic contagion.
                Erratic individuals are sometimes able to inculate their absurd notions into the
                heads of scores of apparently sane individuals who will follow them to any foolish
                length. Minor traits of character, peculiarities of disposition and eccentricities
                of temperament are observed to go through entire families and even neighborhoods. Of
                course, in the case of this family resemblance, heredity may play some part, but
                psychic contagion is the chief factor in most instances. Epidemics of St. Vitus'
                Dance have been traced to  suggestion; coughing,
                sighing, yawning, all lend themselves readily to suggestion, as do laughing and
                crying, in fact, all forms of emotion. Psychic contagion is further shown in the
                expectoration habits of men. Tobacco chewing is going out of fashion, but still men
                remain incessant spitters. Why should men spit more than women? Habit is the answer,
                and psychic contagion is the explanation.

              Imitation is far-reaching in its influence, dominating our clothes fashions, as
                well as accounting for the numerous crazes that attack society from time to time, as
                typified in the bicycle craze, roller skating; and even suicidal tendencies rise and
                fall in accordance with newspaper publicity. Murders of a particular kind are also
                suggested in the same way, and "waves of crime" are almost annual experiences in our
                large cities.

              Psychic contagion, or the psychology of the mob, may also be utilized as a
                therapeutic agent. We have called attention to this in former chapters by the
                statement that neurasthenics and neurotics should never be alone. All of us stand
                fatigue better in a crowd than when we are alone. You can walk twice as far with the
                same amount of weariness on a cross country tramp in congenial society, than if you
                should undertake a solitary journey of equal distance. Fire panic is another case of
                psychic contagion, and all this can be overcome by the fire drills such as are
                conducted in the public schools. In fact, the suggestion-power of newspapers is so
                powerful that I often find it necessary temporarily, to stop my nervous patients
                from reading the daily press.
            

            
              THE CURATIVE POWER OF SUGGESTION

              The power of suggestion is immeasurable. It enters into our every thought and act
                of life. It colors every sensation and emotion of human experience. It is able to
                deceive reason and belittle judgment, and creates a sort of continuous panorama of
                illusions, which we are forced to struggle against throughout a life time. It is
                possible to generate ideals by suggestions and ideas are in turn able to create
                feelings and sensations; and there is absolutely no difference, for the individual
                who experiences it, between the painful sensations provoked by peripheral  irritation and those which result from a central
                excitation-- there is no difference to you between a real pain and an imaginary
                pain, and as Dubois has said: "Often the patient does not possess any criterion
                  by which to decide the question, and the physician himself is frequently puzzled
                  over its settlement."

              As an illustration of the power of suggestion and how it becomes necessary
                sometimes carefully to set the stage in order to maintain the patient's confidence
                throughout a course of treatment, I give the following case: Mrs. D--, married,
                thirty six years of age, had been paralyzed for three and one-half years. She had
                made some improvement, but not enough to enable her to get around without a crutch
                and cane. A careful physical examination, including that of the nervous system,
                showed every evidence that this woman was not paralyzed. Of course, it was
                impossible to say that she had not been paralyzed either actually or hysterically at
                some time in the past. She was told that in our opinion within two months,
                approximately, she would be entirely cured and would be able to walk without crutch
                or cane; and then she was put into the Institute to undergo a course of treatment,
                embracing hydrotherapy, electricity, massage, etc. In connection with these physical
                measures, she was given treatment in educational therapeutics (in this particular
                case-- partly on the "suggestive" order-- twice a week) and it is interesting to
                note that her improvement as to walking ability was exactly proportionate to the
                faith and hope which were aroused by her psychic treatment. She made steady
                improvement and, as was promised, she was fully restored and able to walk without
                crutch or cane at the end of two months' treatment; but even to this day, no amount
                of argument or reasoning will convince her that she was not paralyzed. She
                attributes her remarkable recovery more largely to the physical treatment which she
                received, and this is probably due to the fact that all sorts of mental treatments,
                healing cults, etc., had been tried previous to her coming under our care, and all
                had proved unsuccessful; and, incidentally, it was our knowledge of the failure of
                all these methods that led us in this particular case carefully to arrange a course
                of physical treatment to supplement our 
                psychotherapeutic efforts, and to adopt a measure of "suggestion" in addition to our
                customary regime of reeducation.
            

            
              FEAR OF POISONING

              The power of suggestion to influence the functional behavior of a patient's
                circulation is shown in the case of a patient I recently had, a young woman of
                neurotic heredity, twenty-two years of age, who believed she was being poisoned in
                some insidious manner. First, she thought the poison was put in through the key hole
                into her bedroom, and she worked herself up into a hysterical frenzy over this, as
                about this time there was a great deal being published in the newspapers about white
                slavery, the needle man, etc. Finally after being persuaded that this could not
                possibly be true, by taking her to the hospital and showing her how long it took and
                how many ounces of ether were necessary to narcotize a patient, she conceived the
                idea that poison was being put in through the water tap in her room. She refused to
                either drink the water or wash in it, and finally she settled upon the notion that
                poisonous gas was escaping from the tap, even though she did not draw the water.
                This sort of thing went on for about a year and a half. Then I finally made ready a
                hypodermic syringe, in the water of which I dissolved a very small amount of sugar
                of milk from a tablet taken from a bottle on my desk, telling her that its injection
                into her system would probably markedly affect her heart, but not to worry, that it
                was a necessary procedure connected with her cure.

              Immediately upon the injection of the harmless solution of sugar of milk, her heart
                began to flutter, she became dizzy, her face was alternately paled and flushed, and
                after this had continued for about three or four minutes, I opened the bottle of
                sugar of milk and began calmly to chew up the tablets and swallow them down until I
                had eaten the whole bottle, almost fifty tablets. Suffice it to say that the girl
                had brains enough to recognize what had happened and as far as I know, from that day
                to this, she has not been known to worry about subtle poisonings or needle men.
                Indirect suggestion sometimes works more quickly than direct education.
            

            

            
              THERAPEUTIC MAXIMS

              In the battle against nerves, the successful soldier must learn how to wrest
                triumph from defeat; must learn how to "fight it out along this line, if it takes
                all summer." The neurasthenic must encounter his difficulties with such courage that
                obstacles will only serve to breed the spirit of indomitable conquest. The neurotic
                soul must cheer himself on in the struggle with the assurance that some day recovery
                will become automatic, that the good work will go on unconsciously and without
                constant and earnest effort on his part. He must learn that when mental discipline
                and self-control have been practiced to the point where sixty per cent or more of
                his mental operations are normal and healthy, then the balance of psychological
                gravity will be all on the side of sound thinking and healthful impulses; and then
                it is that victory begins automatically to perch upon his torn and dusty banner,
                while the fight from this point on is easily and surely won.

              In the succession of battles which invariably go before the final victory, we have
                found it very helpful to put in the hands of our patients, as was suggested by Dr.
                Walton, certain phrases, or maxims, which the nervous patient may use as a sort of
                battle cry, to cheer him on when the struggle grows hard. Some of these phrases
                which have proved helpful to our patients are such as the following: "Hold the
                fort," "Never say die," "Sand the track," "Play ball," "Saw wood," "Never give up
                the ship," "The worst is over," "I'll get there yet," "Get busy-- and stick to it,"
                "Play the game square and take the score like a man," "Never touched me."

              A lot of good is being done in the world by hanging up these suggestive mottoes
                around in business offices, such as "Do it now," "Keep busy to keep happy," "Cheer
                up, the less you have the more there is to get," and, "When you are down in the
                mouth, think of Jonah, he came out all right."
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The miracles (so-called) of ancient medicine man and modern bogus
                  healer are alike dependent upon suggestion.

                 The practice of suggestion does not necessarily imply the  employment of deception and subterfuge; it rather
                  embraces the use of persuasion, inspiration, and education.

                 The science of suggestion is the art of endowing good ideas with a new
                  power that will enable them to overthrow their mischief-making fellows.

                 In suggestion, good ideas are supposed to grow up in the sub-conscious
                  mind until they are sufficiently mature to assert themselves and liberate the
                  patient from the tyranny of fear and other erroneous beliefs.

                 Therapeutic suggestions may be either true or false, but only the true
                  make for permanent results and complete recovery.

                 Suggestion as a remedy is as old as the hills and accounts for the
                  fact that widely differing systems of healing and schools of medicine are equally
                  efficacious in curing disease.

                 The ideal method of treating one's difficulties is by auto-suggestion.
                  You can practice mental therapeutics on yourself just as well as to employ some
                  one else to do it for you.

                 Positive thinking as well as opposite thinking is essential to success
                  in mental therapy.

                 A lot of good people allow their own minds to bluff them. They scare
                  themselves out of success and into certain failure.

                 Worry is never cured by resisting it as such. You drive out
                  fear-thought by exercising faith-thought.

                 It is a calamity to form the habit of taking yourself too seriously.
                  The world does not regard you seriously, why should you take yourself so
                  seriously?

                 The art of self-ridicule-- the ability to see the funny side of your
                  own nature-- is an invaluable health practice.

                 Self-control is the secret of curing worry and banishing the blues;
                  and all this means mental discipline with increased will power.

                 Make a declaration of emancipation. Be independent of your mental
                  moods, physical passions, and psychic whims.

                 When fighting has done all it can, learn how gracefully to surrender
                  and be content with your lot.

                 Practice the contemplation of great things and great thoughts. Spend
                  a little time thinking about the big universe you are whirling around in.

                 Psychic contagion is a real thing. The psychology of the mob is the
                  great proof of the power of collective suggestion.

                 Epidemics of excitement, nervous disorders, crimes, and suicide
                  result from psychic contagion in the community.

                 Fads in dressing, bicycling and roller-skating are the result of
                  imitation and suggestion.

                 The universal reading of the daily press contributes powerfully to
                  psychic contagion in the community, state, and nation.

                

                 The power of suggestion is immeasurable. It enters into every thought
                  and act of life, it colors every sensation and emotion of human experience.

                 When the psychic struggle goes hard, it is highly helpful to have
                  some battle cry, such as "I'll never give up the ship," and cling tenaciously to
                  it until the crisis is passed.
              
            
          

          

            
             CHAPTER XXV EDUCATIONAL
              THERAPEUTICS

            UNDER the head of educational therapeutics we desire to discuss
              those prophylactic and curative measures represented by self-control, self-discipline,
              and self-denial; together with the formation of desirable and habitual modes of
              thought and action, designed to take the place of those uncontrolled and disorganized
              modes of thinking and acting which are so characteristic of the various nervous
              states.

            
              EARLY SELF-DISCIPLINE

              It is desirable to start out in the child's life with the early inculcation of the
                thought that the one great thing in human education is self-control-- self-mastery.
                This work of training must begin when the child is a tiny, crying, struggling infant
                in its crib. It must be taught from earliest infancy gracefully to submit to
                emotional discipline and reasonable disappointment. It must be taught patience-- to
                remain calm in the presence of a disappointing or a distasteful situation.

              And this same training which should thus be so early inaugurated must be kept up
                unrelentingly throughout the long years of a life time, for the men or women who
                have not acquired, or who will not acquire, the power to rule their own nerves,
                govern their own emotions, and control their own feelings, if the training requisite
                to this degree of self-discipline has not been undergone by the patient, must know
                that there is but one hope for the future-- such undisciplined minds and
                unrestrained nerves must continue on, the victim of all those annoying and
                distressing symptoms which are the invariable, accompaniment of ennui, neurasthenia,
                and hysteria.
            

            
              MENTAL CONCENTRATION

              In practicing concentration it is necessary to aim at definite mental obligation.
                Take up the study of mathematics and work  on the
                solution of difficult problems. Carefully read a page in a book and then endeavor to
                write a resume of what you have read. Listen to three minutes' conversation and then
                endeavor fully to write it out-- completely reproduce it. Listen to a lecture for
                one hour, never allow your eyes to leave the speaker, and not for one moment permit
                the mind to wander away from what you are hearing.

              When practicing in this way at concentrating the mind, do not become discouraged if
                irrelevant ideas come sneaking into the consciousness, for foreign thoughts will
                certainly thus intrude themselves upon the young psychic athlete, but, as I say, do
                not let this discourage you. Simply dismiss these ideas the moment you become
                conscious of their presence in the mind, and quickly and resolutely switch the focus
                of attention back onto the subject you have elected to concentrate upon. Many
                failures will come before success is achieved, but ultimate success, more or less
                complete, will surely reward all those who persevere.
            

            
              THE PHYSIOLOGY OF CONCENTRATION

              The immediate physiological effects of successful mental concentration are very
                striking. When the mind is thus focused upon a definite idea and when the
                concentration is not over-prolonged, scores of nervous physical manifestations are
                more or less completely removed. The physical organism quiets down, numerous
                functional agitations are more or less calmed, and the tortured nerves of the
                self-centered individual are permanently relieved of that oppressive watchfulness
                which is so constantly exercised by the neurotic patient over the physical behavior
                of his own organism.

              Dr. Vittoz even claims to be able to detect the difference by the sense of feeling
                between the vibrations which emanate from the skull when the mind is concentrated in
                the one case upon the thought of calmness and in the other upon the thought of
                energy. While it is not for me to say what another physician can feel, I am impelled
                to record at this time that I have never been able to feel such vibrations, and I
                have met few other specialists in this line of work who claim to have been
                successful in detecting these specialized oscillations proceeding  from the human cranium. But, however these claims may
                ultimately develop, there is no disputing the fact of the tremendous influence,
                favorable influence, too, upon the body as a result of concentrating the mind, and
                this influence extends over the vast domain of the entire vasomotor system. It also
                markedly affects all of the internal vital organs, as is so well illustrated in the
                case of certain high-strung nervous people who will be attacked with a fit of
                indigestion if they strongly concentrate the mind immediately after eating. Thus, as
                a result of their unstable circulation, they draw too much blood away from the
                digestive tract in order to sustain the activities of the brain.

              Concentration of the mind is also able greatly to elevate the threshold of the
                consciousness of pain, as exemplified in the case of those individuals who have been
                severely injured while the mind was intently occupied, but have not discovered their
                injury or recognized the pain resulting therefrom until considerable time had
                elapsed until the concentration of the mind was relaxed.

              I have repeatedly observed that in the case of certain nervous patients who suffer
                habitually from cold hands and feet, and whose nervous equilibrium is not fully
                destroyed, they are able partially or wholly to cure themselves for the time being
                of cold hands and feet by vigorous concentration of the mind on those portions of
                the body which are thus deficient in circulation. Likewise we have been able to
                train neurasthenics and hysterics almost instantaneously to overcome the feeling of
                numbness which is so commonly present in some part of the body on waking up in the
                morning. Again, we have been successful in many cases of overcoming excessive
                blushing, also excessive flow of perspiration, as in the case of certain nervous
                young people who experience these annoying symptoms when appearing at social
                gatherings or attempting to speak in public. In these cases the mind is trained in
                substitute concentration-- to concentrate upon a certain settled idea when there is
                danger of these nervous circulatory symptoms recurring.

              As more fully shown in my former work, the heart, lungs, stomach and intestines are
                all directly and powerfully influenced by the degree in which the mind may be
                concentrated  upon some particular physical function,
                and to the extent by which the intellect is dominated by the basic emotions of faith
                or fear.

              In connection with the subject of the concentration of the mind upon some
                particular part of the body, there occurs a very peculiar and sometimes paradoxical
                phenomenon. It is this: ordinarily, when suffering from a pathological or imaginary
                functional pain, the patient's agonies are usually increased by allowing the mind to
                dwell upon the pain; but in the case of some trivial sensation, such as pinching the
                arm, for example, the abnormal sensation thus induced can be altogether and
                instantaneously wiped out by powerfully concentrating the mind upon the part
                affected, thus inducing an immediate flood of healthy and centrally controlled
                impulses to sweep over the part affected.
            

            
              PERSUADING MEN'S MINDS

              Tactful persuasion represents the shortest possible route by which one individual
                can get an idea into the head of another individual. When the patient once has
                confidence in his physician, we are able to make our greatest and most rapid strides
                along the lines of educational therapeutics by means of discreet and sincere
                persuasion. To cure a psychic disorder by recourse to authority or any other method
                other than the enlightenment of the patient's mind, the arousal of his judgment, the
                satisfaction of his reason, and the strengthening of his will, will be found a
                deception in the end. If the patient's mind is sufficiently aroused and his
                enthusiasm enlisted, he will lay the hand of auto-authority upon his own brain and
                something new under the sun will begin immediately to happen in his mind; and thus
                we have secured obedience to our treatment and curative results are sure to follow
                without our having stultified in the least the clear-sightedness of the patient.

              A great many patients who are supposed to be in need of more will-power are really
                in possession of a sufficient amount of that particular article, but what they do
                need is intelligence-- the ability immediately and economically to use their
                will-power-- not to say that they also frequently stand in need of  proper encouragement and inspiration. It was Spinoza, I
                think, who said: "Intelligence and will are but one and the same thing."

              And in this connection we must also recognize a special sphere of intelligence
                which might very properly be called "moral intelligence." Today training schools are
                needed where moral intelligence, the discriminating analysis of life's problems,
                could be taught. Perhaps the church should fulfill this function, but it has
                certainly fallen a great way behind in the fulfillment of its functions in this
                regard.

              While educational persuasion is at present the more ideal method of practicing
                psychotherapy, still we must not despise the time-honored and lowly art of
                suggestion. There are many patients whom you cannot at first directly teach, but to
                whom you can indirectly suggest. For instance, I recently had a patient who indulged
                in an incessant nervous hacking cough. I reasoned with him for weeks, told him of
                its effect upon his lungs, his health, his nerves, and bye and bye I literally
                persuaded him-- educated him-- out of this cough, and he is cured today. That was
                ideal psychotherapy. But I recently read the story of a boy, just a young chap, who
                also had a nervous cough. No amount of admonition or persuasion had been able to
                cure him. While out in the street one day, one of his playmates, probably equally
                nervous, became disgusted with the boy's constant coughing and said to him: "If you
                don't stop that coughing, I'm going to punch the daylights out of you." Of course,
                the mere suggestion of coughing was enough to attract the little fellow's attention
                and he proceeded immediately to cough again, whereupon the other boy fulfilled his
                threat. He punched him unmercifully, but the lad was never known again to yield to
                his impulse of nervous coughing. You see his experience suggested to his mind the
                substitution of the fear of being "punched" in the place of his cough fear.
            

            
              PERSUASION VS. ARGUMENT

              Some patients may progress along these educational lines very slowly; they are
                therapeutic "doubting Thomases." They will argue protractedly to prove the
                incurability of their cases--  provided their
                physician is foolish enough to argue with them. They faithfully follow all his
                treatment orders, but they are devoid of enthusiasm. Their faith is not of the order
                which moves mountains. But we do not become discouraged with patients of this sort,
                for when they are once cured by proper educational methods and the exaltation of the
                will to its rightful place of power in the psychic domain-- they usually stay cured
                for a lifetime.

              We have to be sympathetic with these patients, and often tell them we can hardly
                blame them for looking at things as they do, but always assure them that as
                physicians we look at these matters differently, that we can come more nearly seeing
                the end from the beginning than can the patient, and then by steady control keep
                their trolleys on the treatment wire until at a later time they begin to discover
                real evidences of a cure.

              One of the most fatal notions is for the neurasthenic patient to get it into his
                head that he has two diseases-- his nervous condition-- and then some possible
                organic disease in addition. I dislike very much to be forced to tell a patient that
                they are suffering from some organic disease until I have first won the fight with
                their functional nervous disorder. I am, therefore (unless it is a grave and
                seemingly incurable disorder) given to passing over the diagnosis as far as possible
                in such cases and achieving my purpose by making a frank and favorable prognosis as
                far as the facts will warrant me. In this way we can avoid the pitfalls of a
                lukewarm diagnosis and aid our psychotherapy by means of a strong, hearty, entirely
                consistent and altogether likely prognosis.
            

            
              MEMORY DISORDERS

              It is a common complaint on the part of nervous patients that they are fast losing
                their memories. They especially complain of inability to remember the names of
                people, as well as being unable quickly to call to the mind certain words and
                otherwise to remember facts and dates, all of which they are familiar with. It is
                necessary carefully to teach these patients that these disorders of memory are not
                permanent, that they are  in no wise evidence of
                failing mentality, that they are but the common everyday accompaniments-- well
                recognized and thoroughly understood symptoms of the functional nervous disorders
                from which they are suffering. If these patients can be induced to take their minds
                off themselves, their chances of cure will greatly improve and the memory faculties
                will have an opportunity to devote themselves to subjects other than the constant
                consciousness of one's own sensations and sufferings. Then, too, it should be
                remembered that over-anxiety in our efforts to remember always interferes with our
                power to recall our memory images. The strength of memory is always in direct
                proportion to the intensity of attention, and the power of attention is always
                greatly disordered and decreased in neurasthenics.

              Fatigue, real or imaginary, always tends to interfere with the keenness of memory.
                It is common for business men to confuse lack of attention with loss of memory, and
                thus come to regard themselves as suffering from the latter when their troubles are
                wholly due to the fact that they are giving but slight attention to the details of
                their business as a result of lack of mental concentration, and so they come to find
                that they are not in possession of the full facts respecting their affairs which
                they formerly held in their minds, and in this way they are tricked into believing
                that the memory is failing.
            

            
              MEMORY TRAINING

              A great deal can be done to re-train a neurasthenic's memory, and in reference to
                this point Walsh says: 
                  My rule now is to tell patients who come complaining of loss of memory that if
                    there is any real loss of memory it is due to their improper use of the faculty,
                    or perhaps to their failure to exercise it sufficiently, for the proper
                    performance of function depends on adequate exercise. They are then instructed
                    to take certain simple classical bits of literature and commit them to memory.
                    At the beginning such short poems, with frequently repeated rhymes, of the
                    modern poets as are comparatively easy to learn are set as memory exercises.
                    Later Goldsmith's "Traveler," and "Deserted Village," are suggested. Then
                    passages from Shakespeare are given. Just as  soon
                    as the patient finds that he can commit to memory as he used to, if he only
                    gives himself to the task, a change comes over his ideas with regard to the loss
                    of memory. For many of these people the occupation of mind is an excellent
                    therapeutic measure. Besides, selections can be made in such a way as to keep
                    before their minds the thoughts they most need in the shape of memory lessons.
                    It is a discipline of memory that revives it and also a constant exercise in
                    favorable suggestion.
                
            

            
              DISCOUNTING YOUR FEARS

              It is a good habit to form, systematically and persistently, the practice of
                sensation-neglect, if the causes of your worry are certain physical conditions. If
                your worries are of a moral or a family nature, make your peace with God and your
                fellow-men, and then practice a little common sense. The employment of a great and
                good motive will do a great deal to drive worry out of your experience.

              The majority of our fears and many of our sensations should be liberally
                discounted. We should not form the habit of taking our emotions and feelings too
                seriously. They are very liable to impose upon us, unduly to alarm and frighten us.
                Even if we find it exceedingly difficult to exercise control over our own fears and
                worries, let us at least succeed in meeting the fears and anxieties of our
                associates without appropriating them to ourselves or otherwise echoing them.

              Another illustration of how easy it is to overestimate the value of our fears and
                apprehensions is shown in the excitement and consternation which prevail in some
                homes when a thunderstorm is approaching, especially if the lightning is severe. The
                mother becomes panic-stricken, her face assumes a frightened expression, and she
                begins to gather the children around her in one corner of the room-- or maybe in a
                closet where they pass the time in fear and trembling, momentarily expecting to be
                hurled into eternity by a malicious bolt from the skies. And so from infancy, most
                children are led to look upon the elemental forces of nature with fear and terror,
                when they might have been taught the beauties and grandeur of nature's powers.

              Most of us need to practice the art of minimizing our difficulties. Do not look at
                your obstacles with a magnifying glass.  Make up your
                mind that in many instances you will be able to rise triumphant over apparent defeat
                and to move right on in the even tenor of your way./Do not become greatly disturbed
                by the little ripples of life which pass through your experience from day to day.
                Practice taking your own good advice and all the suggestions you give to other
                people about not worrying. Don't forget to use them yourself.

              Begin to pin your worries down to definite facts. Most of our difficulties are
                vague and indefinite. Many of our fears and worries are wholly imaginary. Make
                practice of writing down in black and white the objects of your worry. The process
                of writing them down will usually disclose their absurdity and assist in the work of
                overcoming them. To abandon oneself to one's feelings means to be impulsive and to
                compromise one's own happiness and that of others. All the feelings
                  must therefore be submitted to the criticism of the reason. You will perhaps
                say: But my sentiments and feelings are all good. How then do you know that they are
                all good, if you have not submitted them to a judgment by the help of your
                reason?

              Dubois says: 
                  From the first days of existence education commences-- education by sensible
                    experience, sensations of comfort and discomfort due to physical causes: heat,
                    cold, sensory impressions, moderate or too strong for the sensibility of the
                    nervous system. From the first cry, these sensations have an influence over the
                    new-born mentality, and one can understand how a succession of painful
                    impressions may modify-the character of the child, and create the fretful
                    disposition that one so often finds in children who have suffered from sickness
                    or ill treatment; the mark is sometimes indelible. Who is to say that this
                    education by the senses does not begin before birth, in the maternal womb, where
                    the fetus may already find conditions unfavorable to its well-being, and
                    experience painful impressions?
                
            

            
              THE CULTIVATION OF HOPE

              One of the greatest means of inspiring the patient with the hope that he will get
                well is the practice of making a thorough-going physical examination and laboratory
                research before  pronouncing a diagnosis. In this way
                it is possible quite certainly to differentiate between organic disease and
                functional disorders, and thus the physician is in a position to offer the patient a
                more definite and positive assurance of recovery.

              While it is true there may be more or less of an element of suggestion in this
                procedure, nevertheless, it is suggestion of the highest and most legitimate order.
                While there is an element of faith in the help which the patient gets as a result of
                these thorough-going investigations, nevertheless, it is faith and conviction based
                on reason and not the blind faith that is sometimes appealed to by those remedial
                measures which are simply and exclusively suggestive. There is a great difference in
                the faith which the patient may have in his physician merely as a healer and the
                faith which results from the clear exposition and lucid explanation of the patient's
                difficulties, and which is able to win his confidence and secure his hearty
                therapeutic cooperation.

              In dealing with the psycho-neuroses, the physician must be doubly certain of his
                grounds-- must be reasonably sure of his diagnosis-- before he should dare to speak
                the healing mandate, "You will surely get well." This is serious business for the
                conscientious physician and it is due to the fact that he is so seldom in position
                honestly to utter these magic words that so many patients of this order are cured by
                the irregular and unscrupulous practitioners who do not hesitate to guarantee
                cures.
            

            
              THE PRACTICE OF GOOD EMOTIONS

              It is possible for a nervous patient whose experience is cursed with a flood of
                unhealthy emotions to set about successfully to create good emotions-- to master the
                art of practicing desirable emotional experiences. These mental powers are all
                subject to cultivation by exercise just as literally as are the material muscles.
                Use strengthens and practice increases mental energy as truly as it does muscular
                power.

              It is a good practice for neurotics to learn to live but one day at a time. At any
                moment in their life some unfortunate neurasthenics are suffering from all the
                troubles they ever had,  all they now have and all
                they think they ever will have. If you are nervous you must learn that "sufficient
                unto the day is the evil thereof."

              There is a great educational work which the victims of worry can carry on in their
                own behalf. They can modify their emotional behavior, correct and retrain their
                faulty mental habits, and in many other ways take the distressing sting out of their
                chronic habits of fretting and worry. The larger part of so-called nervousness is
                nothing more or less than faulty nerve control and defective thinking.

              It is sometimes necessary to change one's position, to seek new associations, and
                even to go in quest of new scenery, in order to be able to get control of one's
                habits of thinking when they have been inordinately deranged by some sudden shock or
                other distressing experience. On the other hand, it is entirely possible for the
                average patient to sit right down where he is and begin the work of capturing,
                corralling, and reeducating his haphazard methods of thinking and his unruly nervous
                mechanism. The most important thing is that you should be willing to see your self
                as you are; when you read these pages and recognize your own nervous shortcomings,
                apply this advice with the same willingness and alacrity which you exhibit in
                discerning the description of your neighbor's ailments.

              If you really make up your mind to do the thing-- to use a phrase of the street
                "get busy"-- then you will find the obstacles and difficulties are only an added
                challenge which increases your zest for the game and whets your appetite in
                anticipation of final victory.
            

            
              THE ART OF LIVING EASY

              The acme of success in nerve training is to acquire the beautiful art of living
                easy-- not necessarily easy living-- but that beautiful experience, that graceful
                experience, which characterizes the self-possessed yet unconscious soul; that power
                and poise of personality which, as far as one's own mental domain is concerned,
                makes the individual master of all he surveys.

              These are the patients that have learned how to laugh, have acquired the art of
                living with themselves as they are and the  world as
                it is. They have habitually cultivated the smile until it has become perpetually
                theirs. They have mastered the art of consuming their own smoke and thus clarifying
                the psychic atmosphere in which they think and move and have their being.

              Above all, the physician who treats nervous patients should never be hurried-- or,
                at least, never appear to be. The doctor who blows in like a gust of wind, looks at
                his watch, and speaks of his many engagements, is not qualified to practice
                psychotherapy. It is necessary, on the contrary, that the patient should have the
                impression that he is the only person in all the world in whom the physician is
                interested just at this time.

              Dr. Cabot has arrived at the conclusion that there are but four essentials to the
                real enjoyment of life. These he calls work, play, love, and worship. Work provides
                activity and a mission for the body and in a measure occupies the mind. Play is the
                means of relaxation to the body and recreation to the mind. It affords relief from
                the depression of monotony. Love fascinates the mind and gives expression and
                satisfaction to the innate and instinctive social longings of human beings; while
                worship is the outlet and means of expression of the higher spiritual nature which
                in some form or other resides in every human being.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Educational therapeutics embraces those prophylactic and curative
                  measures employed in mental medicine, ordinarily known as self-control,
                  self-denial, and self-discipline.

                 The discipline of the nervous system should begin in earliest infancy,
                  and be kept up throughout a lifetime.

                 Nervous patients must practice and acquire mental concentration. They
                  should set their minds at work in the performance of definite mental tasks.

                 The power to concentrate one's mind is not readily acquired, but
                  perseverance will always bring success.

                 Profound mental concentration is always accompanied by definite
                  physiological effects and bodily reactions.

                 Sensations of pain and other physical feelings, together with the
                  behavior of internal organs, are all more or less influenced by vigorous mental
                  concentration.

                 Mental concentration may be so utilized as to either increase or
                  decrease various bodily feelings and sensations.

                

                 The heart, lungs, stomach, and bowels are all directly influenced by
                  the intensity and degree of mind concentration.

                 Tactful persuasion represents the shortest possible route by which one
                  individual can get an idea into the mind of another.

                 Many patients who seem to lack will-power in reality lack
                  intelligence-- the ability to utilize their mental powers.

                 In psychotherapy, methods of persuasion should always take precedence
                  over argument; reasoning is always helpful but argument is fatal.

                 Sympathy not infrequently keeps the physician in touch with the
                  patient until reason and will-power can effect a cure.

                 Disorders of memory which accompany neurasthenics are a source of
                  great worry. This should not be regarded seriously and can usually be cured by
                  proper methods of memory training.

                 Fatigue, real or imaginary, always tends to interfere with the
                  keenness of memory, as does also lack of attention.

                 Learn to overcome your fears, practice sensation neglect. Don't be
                  bluffed by your emotions.

                 Practice the art of minimizing your difficulties. Do not look at your
                  obstacles with a magnifying glass.

                 Many nervous patients are helped by the practice of writing down in
                  black and white the object of their fears and worries, thus subjecting their
                  feelings to the criticism of reason.

                 The neurasthenic must assiduously cultivate hope. He must place
                  implicit trust in the physician's promise that he "will surely get well."

                 Practice the cultivation of good emotions in conjunction with the
                  suppression of undesirable feelings. In this way you can radically modify your
                  emotional behavior.

                 It is sometimes necessary to change one's position, associations, and
                  even seek new scenery, as an aid to escaping from unhealthy emotions.

                 The most important thing in the battle with one's emotions is to "get
                  busy" and stick to the job until the victory is gained.

                 Cultivate the art of living easy the knack of getting along with
                  yourself as you are and the world as it is.

                 Forget yourself while the mind is kept busy with the essentials of
                  life: work, play, love, and worship.
              
            
          

          

            
            CHAPTER XXVI THE EXALTATION OF THE
              WILL

            IN THE practice of psychotherapy, reeducation must be recognized as
              a distinct process of mental training. While it may include the valuable and powerful
              elements of suggestion, it is, nevertheless, dependent for its success upon
              intelligent, methodical, and persistent educational processes; it is a method of
              reforming the patient's habit of thought respecting himself, his nervous difficulties,
              and his other disorders.

            
              WILL POWER

              In the practice of psychotherapy, reeducation is nothing more or less than a
                process of mental re-formation; new groups of ideas are created, and by persistent
                repetition are forced into positions of power and influence in the scheme of mental
                organization. The false conclusions, the harmful and unhealthy ideas and groups of
                ideas, are forced into the background, while the new idea becomes enthroned in a
                position of power and authority.

              While the intensity of mental action is greatest in the central consciousness, it
                should be remembered that the contents of the mind the number of association groups,
                etc.-- is greatly increased as we go out toward the periphery, the marginal
                consciousness. The central consciousness is concerned with a small number of clear
                and vivid thoughts, while the marginal consciousness is occupied with an almost
                infinite host of thoughts and ideas, all of which are more or less hazy and
                indefinite, and even unconscious. The will power of most people is comparatively
                weak; that is, there exists a tremendous disproportion between the high degree of
                modern intellectual culture and the humiliating weakness of the will in the average
                man. Self-mastery is not the crowning virtue of the age. SeIf-control is the crying
                need of the hour.

              

              The will is the final arbiter of choice. It holds the balance of power in all
                mental operations. Its strength determines whether or not the body can be compelled
                to carry out the orders of the mind. The man with the strong will has the body under
                control of his own mind. The man with a weak will may have a mind controlled by the
                appetites and passions of the body; while one with a diseased will may find himself
                partially or wholly under the control of another mind. The will has knowledge of and
                also includes all mental operations.

              The will represents the combined spiritual, mental, and nervous forces brought to
                bear upon mind and body to direct them in the channels of choice and conscientious
                conviction. The will represents the supreme conclusions-- the final effort of the
                mind. It should be remembered that merely wishing is not willing. The will is the
                battle ground of character formation.

              The will is not a distinct mental power in the sense that judgment, reason, memory,
                etc., are powers of the mind. The will represents to the mind what the sum total
                does to the column of figures. It is the master-builder of character and the
                architect of eternal destiny.
            

            
              MAN A RESPONSIBLE BEING

              Man is not a mere machine, not even an intelligent machine. Machines can perform
                only the work for which they are constructed, they are not responsible. Man is in
                the highest sense responsible for his acts and habits, 'he has a will and possesses
                the power of choice. The majority of animals are quite dependent on their instincts
                and on the stimuli which reach their brains from the sensory nerves, but man is able
                to direct himself according to the choosing of his own will. While reason may be the
                highest act of the mind itself, practical experience goes to prove the reason, in
                fact the entire mind, is ever subservient to that mighty sovereign of the
                personality-- the will.

              A We may rent our minds for a consideration, we may let out our intellects for
                hire, but no man ever leases his will to another. The will is inseparable from the
                personality. Reason is simply the attorney-general of the mind, appearing before the
                supreme court of the will.

              

              Because man has this splendid endowment of will, he at once becomes a creature of
                personal responsibility, and it is therefore incumbent upon him to exhibit a
                reasonable degree of self-possession, self-restraint, and self-control. Again, the
                will appears as the governor of the rate of mental activity. The mind with a weak
                will thinks rapidly and superficially. The strong will compels deep, deliberate, and
                logical thought. When the mind is not inhibited by the will, it roams about
                aimlessly from one end of the world to the other. It resembles a horse which has
                thrown its rider. Such a mind soon degenerates to the mere animal level-- ever
                changing its course of thought with the constantly changing nerve impressions which
                are brought to the brain over the sensory nervous system. It requires downright hard
                work-- constant effort-- to keep the mind at work under the direction of the will.
                Without constant supervision by the will, the mind wanders aimlessly in the midst of
                the pleasant scenes of its own imagination. And it is just because we have so little
                will-thought that most of the mental energy of the world runs to waste, and all
                classes of society are overrun with idle dreamers. The divine gift of mental freedom
                carries the penalty of moral and personal responsibility.
            

            
              CHARACTER AND CONSCIENCE

              Character formation represents the grand and sublime purpose of life, and character
                formation is determined by our every thought, word, and action.

              The formation of character is influenced not only by the process of thinking
                carried on within the mind, and its resultant physical acts, and the habits thereby
                formed, but also by the spiritual powers-- the higher moral influences to which the
                mind of man is subject, in contradistinction to the mind of the animal.

              Man has a conscience. The conscience cannot be described as a separate mental
                power. It is the spiritual or moral guide to conduct and thought, having for its
                basis our hereditary and acquired mental attitudes and moral standards. It is the
                spiritual voice, speaking to the will. The conscience is man's moral  instinct. It imparts divine dignity to the man, and
                forever distinguishes him from the animal.

              The conscience is ever subject to education, and therefore it must never be looked
                upon as an infallible and unerring guide to conduct. The heathen is just as
                conscientious in praying to an idol as the Christian is in worshiping a personal
                God. The devout Hindoo mother is just as conscientious in throwing her innocent babe
                into the mouth of the crocodile as is the Christian missionary in his efforts to
                save her benighted soul.

              And so we must recognize that man is a spiritual being as well as an intelligent
                animal. The primitive man is always religious, he universally worships something.
                Absolute irreligion is only the product of artificial training and miseducation. The
                spirit which operates upon the mind of man constitutes the divine source of our
                higher emotions. Judgment, ofttimes spontaneously, determines the right for the
                mind, and conscience prompts the will to order the execution of judgment's
                decrees.
            

            
              IDEAS AND EMOTIONS

              A great many of our psychic difficulties arise from a failure properly to control
                our ideas and regulate our emotions. Others fail to distinguish between their ideas
                and their emotions. They experience emotions, and then in their confusion are led to
                believe that they had really formulated an idea, when they had only experienced a
                passing emotion, due partially to transient disturbances in the circulation. The
                power of emotions for good is not to be ignored, but they become a dangerous psychic
                influence when allowed to wield the balance of power in the mind. It is very easy
                for an overpowering emotion, in the presence of an unusual situation, entirely to
                override the will, to displace reason and judgment, literally to sweep the sufferer
                off his feet., Strong emotions interfere with the correct interpretation of
                sensations, and otherwise have a tendency to disorganize the reasoning power of the
                mind as well as to stampede the judgment and the will.
            

            
              THE CONTROL OF EMOTION

              If the mind is not carefully organized, and the thinking conducted in a systematic
                and orderly fashion, the emotions, when  running riot,
                may even go into the realm of memory and there pervert, distort, and destroy our
                very recollections of things. Emotions excite the heart to increased action, and in
                a variety of ways produce an extravagant expenditure of vital energy. This is
                probably due to the fact that when strong emotions are experienced, the higher
                nervous centers, so to speak, take it for granted that the body will be thrown into
                more or less violent sympathetic action-- they anticipate the need of increased
                circulation, and at once start the machinery going at increased speed.

              Emotion represents a very intimate interassociation between the mind and the body.
                The man who would acquire a high degree of self-control must begin on the emotions.
                Never suppress or annihilate them-- rather control and coordinate them. Those who
                have chronic congestion in any one organ of the body, those who suffer chronically
                from cold hands and feet and pale skins, are much more likely than others to become
                victims of violent emotional outbreaks. To balance the circulation and purify the
                blood will greatly aid in securing control of the emotions. If the emotions are not
                controlled, they will eventually evolve into veritable psychic desperadoes, charging
                around through the mind in disorderly fashion, utterly destroying the finer
                sensibilities, building themselves up into tyrannical masters, swaying the mind at
                will, and utterly supplanting reason and judgment.

              The strong mind acts slowly; the weak mind acts quickly, on the spur of the moment.
                Daydreaming is good for the imagination, and is a pleasant and profitable exercise
                for the mind; nevertheless, we should never allow the creations o our daydreaming to
                assume control of the intellectual reins. We need to cultivate the habit of
                reflection-- that is, of thinking before we act. The acquirement of the reflection
                habit would save us a great deal of unnecessary suffering and sorrow. By reflection
                we do not mean study, or mere thinking. Study leads to knowledge, but reflection is
                manifested in action. The highest degree of reflection is possible only in the
                presence of a high degree of will power. As we strengthen the will by reeducation,
                the mind will have a better opportunity to reflect, and then our actions will become
                better ordered and controlled.
            

            

            
              INTEREST AND ENTHUSIASM

              When the mind is normal and healthily at work, it needs little of our help in the
                work of concentration. Partridge has well said: "When interests develop normally,
                  the mind is trained to its work without great and distressing effort. The properly
                  fed mind trains itself, and the prevailing idea of discipline is certainly largely
                  wrong. The constant effort to do that which is difficult in order to train the
                  mind, or to keep it in trim, is for the most part mistaken effort. When interest
                  is aroused, there is no problem of concentration. The difficulty is rather to keep
                  the mind away from a subject than to direct it to it. Mental energy is wasted to a
                  degree which would seem scandalous if its value were estimated in dollars and
                  cents, and which is equaled only by the abandon with which we give away and waste
                  that other most precious gift of nature.-- Time."
            

            
              DUBOIS' VIEWS

              Regarding the therapeutics of will training, Dubois, an unusually successful
                practitioner of these methods-- indeed a pioneer in their use-- says: 
                  As a practicing physician, I began before the experiments at Nancy to influence
                    my patients by bona-fide persuasion. The study of books by Bernheim and the
                    visit I paid him in 1888 made me realize the power of hypnosis and of
                    suggestion. I was amazed by his demonstrations, and for a few months I even made
                    use of his methods, but I recognized immediately their artificial character, and
                    I abandoned them to strike the path where I had left it, the path of rational
                    psychotherapeutics. I know well how Bernheim avoids his difficulties. On his own
                    responsibility, he changes the sense of words and defines suggestion according
                    to what idea he has in his head. In this case, it is very evident that all
                    mental therapeutics have their origin in suggestion and that persuasion is only
                    a particular form of suggestion. I am not at all anxious to juggle with
                    commonplace symptoms or try to dissipate a semi-anesthesia by a transfer, a
                    subterfuge which consists in misplacing the limits of insensibility by
                    suggestion. I wish, on the contrary, to study my patient, discover by what
                    conscious or subconscious autosuggestion he produces sufferings or anesthesias.
                    I would like to free him of his autosuggestibility, and for that reason I do not
                    think it is a good  plan to cultivate his
                    suggestibility or credulity. His headache, perhaps, will last longer; he will
                    take longer to lose his insomnia, his insensibilities; he will give me more
                    trouble than if I forced some therapeutic suggestions into his head; but he will
                    become reasonable, capable of mental synthesis, and when he comes out of the
                    clinic he will not only have left behind a morbid suffering, an anesthesia, and
                    a disorder of the functions, but will also have acquired a spirit of resistance
                    which will reestablish his psychical and physical equilibrium, and will protect
                    him against relapse, even if unfortunate circumstances continue to introduce
                    those specific causes which gave birth to the crisis. And now, after many
                    gropings, these ideas are becoming defined and we are entering at last upon an
                    era of truly rational psychotherapy. There still remain many battles to be
                    fought, not only with the obdurate somatists, but even among the partizans of
                    psychotherapy, for everyone has his own ideas on the subject. Believers in
                    "suggestion" will not lay down their arms, but will continue to attract to their
                    ranks the medical men who do not know how to reflect and to attain to a higher
                    conception. For some time yet the "psychoanalysts" will take pride in the
                    superiority they attribute to themselves, believing, as they do, that they
                    penetrate more deeply the innermost depths of the human mind, which draws its
                    existence from the "subconscious," according to them. Let us leave all these
                    susceptibilities among medical men and scientists to react upon each other.
                    Something always comes of these discussions and it is by passing through error
                    that we gain the truth.
                
            

            
              INVOLUNTARY THINKING

              From what we have said regarding the great powers of the will, the reader must not
                reach the conclusion that it is possible to bring one's thoughts into a machine-like
                sort of subjection. There will always remain that independent spontaneity in the ebb
                and flow of the thoughts which has its origin in the diverse and manifold psychic
                and physical stimuli ever playing upon the mind and body. As one writer has so well
                stated: 
                  Man strangely deludes himself when he imagines that he is able to think what he
                    wishes and of what he wishes. No man, however great a genius, has ever had a
                    personal thought, or originated an idea in his august brow. Thought, however
                    complicated it may be, only results from an association of ideas which in no
                    wise suffers the yoke of a sovereign will. Our thoughts impose themselves upon
                       us, and succeed each other in our minds,
                    without our being able to change their order, drive away those which are
                    troublesome or voluntarily dwell upon those which please us. They all result
                    from fortuitous stimuli, physical or psychic, coming from the exterior, and
                    therefore extrinsic with regard to our inmost ego, even when this stimulation
                    has its seat in our organism. We do not direct our thought; it is the stimulus
                    which gives birth to it. The ideas which come to us are the fruits of personal
                    experience, of that which others transmit to us by word or by book, by all the
                    means of expression which our five senses give us. We do not therefore think by
                    ourselves in the strict sense of the word; we assist, I venture to say,
                    passively, in the working of our mental kaleidoscope, in which the pictures
                    succeed one another under the influence of the impetus received from without.
                    The movement provoked continues while we are awake and is prolonged in sleep in
                    the form of dreams, and we are no more able to check this continual flow of
                    thoughts during the day than during the night. We always feel ourselves to be
                    active, and not passive in work of any kind, whether it be a fugitive thought
                    revealing itself by a gesture, or in continuous, persevering work. We are free
                    in the crude sense that the public give to this word; philosophically speaking,
                    we are slaves of the motives which obtrude themselves upon us by reason of our
                    character.
                
            

            
              METHOD OF PRACTICING REEDUCATION

              More or less psychanalysis must precede the successful practice of psychic
                reeducation. It will not be necessary here to repeat the principles underlying
                psychanalysis, or mental diagnosis. After having carefully examined the mind of the
                patient and having arrived at a diagnosis of the underlying causes of his nervous
                disorders and psychic difficulties, the method to be pursued in the process of
                reeducating the patient's mind and strengthening the will may be summarized as
                follows: 
                   Make sure that you have not overlooked any physical condition or
                    bodily disease which may be acting as a contributing cause in these mental
                    disturbances or nervous disorders. See that digestion, circulation, metabolism,
                    and elimination are proceeding normally.

                   One of the best methods of arriving quickly at a mental diagnosis is
                    to allow the patient to tell his story-- talk it all out. It is the author's
                    practice, after getting pleasantly settled in the 
                    office and becoming fairly well acquainted with the patient, to start him on his
                    story and never to interrupt, never to ask a single question, until he has
                    finished talking. We had a patient, a nervous woman, who talked of herself this
                    way for an hour and a half; made up her mind she was the "biggest fool in town";
                    analyzed the cause of her difficulty, and within six weeks had practiced
                    reeducation and autosuggestion on herself to the point where she was completely
                    restored. It was one of the most successful and remarkable cases the author has
                    ever met.

                   After the patient's story is told, arrive at just as accurate a
                    diagnosis as possible respecting the false methods of reasoning and the
                    erroneous conclusions which have led him into this neurotic condition. It is
                    absolutely necessary that the definite ideas, emotions, and false conclusions
                    shall be isolated, preparatory to the successful employment of
                    reeducation.

                   Now that the examination and diagnosis are completed, the time has
                    come for reeducational therapeutics. Begin at once to point out to the patient
                    the exact error in the working of the mental machinery. Explain simply, fully,
                    and specifically wherein the trouble lies. Be methodic and positive as far as
                    you are conversant with the case. Explain things to the patient honestly,
                    frankly, and fully, just as they appear to you. Lay aside all this nonsense
                    about laymen not being able to understand their diseases. If explained in plain
                    English, it is the author's experience that most patients are able to understand
                    their difficulties just about as well as a physician. Endeavor to make a
                    logical, full, and rational presentation of the whole thing to the patient's
                    mind, just as it appears to you.

                   The next essential step, having laid matters before these nervous
                    patients, is to secure their full confidence and hearty cooperation; and then
                    day by day and week by week continue that persistent, systematic, and methodical
                    work of repeating this story, building it up, developing it and adding to it
                    from time to time, until the new teaching comes to occupy the center of the
                    stage and effectually drive the old and false ideas into the background.

                   It is highly important that these nervous patients should  specifically recognize wherein their former mental
                    habits (their old ways of looking at things) were wrong. It is highly essential
                    that they should individually recognize their mistakes and acknowledge them, for
                    in these cases confession is good for the soul. See to it that their false ideas
                    of disease are cast out of the mind. Make them definitely promise to work with
                    you toward the development of the new and right ideas.
                
            

            
              THE RANGE OF REEDUCATION

              It will readily appear that the practice of this method of psychotherapy requires
                no unusual skill, no extraordinary knowledge, not even special knowledge respecting
                psychology on the part of the practitioner. It is entirely possible for certain
                people who have awakened to a recognition of their psychic condition to practice
                this method upon themselves; in which case it would, of course, partake largely of
                the nature of autosuggestion. Any physician can practice this method upon his
                patients; any intelligent parent can utilize it in child culture; any wide-awake
                teacher can use it in the work of teaching. And herein lies its greatest power; that
                is, it is practical and entirely free from deception, sophistry, and delusion. This
                method is certainly the most simple, and at the same time the most successful, of
                all the procedures of modern psychotherapy.

              This method of reeducation may be used on a large range of worried, nervous,
                so-called neurotic patients. It demands neither hypnosis nor suggestion, as those
                terms are ordinarily understood. It occupies the greatest possible field of psychic
                endeavor; and while it is useful and successful in a large number of cases, and
                results in greatly strengthening the mind, in the end it is found to be nothing more
                or less than a process of reeducating the will. It must be remembered that it is
                probably inadequate in marked cases of hysteria, in disorders of personality, and in
                extreme cases of obsession.
            

            
              FREE WILL AND DETERMINISM

              It is in the treatment of disorders of the will of various kinds that the physician
                is brought to realize how much harm is done by the teaching that determinism and not
                free will rules life.  It is true that we often find
                cases in which men and women cannot use their wills or at least seem not to be able
                to use them. They are lacking in some essential quality of human mentality. We find
                many human beings, however, doing things that are harmful for them and that are so
                inveterated by habit that it is extremely difficult to get away from them. In every
                case the sane person can conquer and break the habit, no matter how much of a hold
                it may have obtained.

              We have heard much of the born criminal and of the degenerate and his inevitable
                tendencies, but most of the theories founded on this phase of criminal anthropology
                have gradually been given up as a consequence of more careful, and above all, more
                detailed observation. Many criminals bear the stigmata of so-called degeneration.
                Many of them have irregular heads, uneven ears, some fastened directly to the cheek
                and some with the animal peak, many have misshapen mouths and noses, but, on the
                other hand, many people having these physical qualities are good men and women,
                perfectly capable of self-control, honest, efficient members of society, and it is
                evident that the original observations were founded too exclusively on the criminal
                classes, instead of on the whole population. It is important, then, to get away from
                the notion of irresponsibility in these cases.

              While men are free, yet each in a different way, and the freedom of their wills is
                as individual as their countenances, it must not be forgotten that the freedom of
                the will is a function of the human being, and, like all other functions, can be
                increased or decreased by exercise or the lack of it. The old idea of "breaking the
                will" was as much of a mistake as that other old-fashioned notion contemporary with
                it of "hardening" children by exposing them to inclement weather and severe physical
                trials. The will may be strengthened, however, by the exercise of it, and if not
                exercised may it not be expected, by analogy, at least, to be as weak and flabby as
                muscles would be under similar circumstances? The training of the will by
                self-denial and self-control is extremely important. When there is an hereditary
                influence, a family trait, and not merely an acquired character, by which the will
                rather easily passes out of control, there is all the more need for the training of
                it in early youth. Without such training men may find it impossible to make up their
                minds to deny themselves indulgence of many kinds, but this is not because they have
                not free will, but because this function has never been  exercised sufficiently to enable them to use it properly. A man who attempts to
                do gymnastic feats without training becomes a cropper. A man who is placed in
                circumstances requiring hard muscle exertion will fail if his muscles have not been
                trained to bear it. The same thing will happen with the will.

              Unfortunately this training of the will has been neglected to a considerable extent
                in modern education, and, above all, in modern families, where the presence of but
                one or two children concentrates attention on them, overstimulating them when young,
                leading to self-centeredness and, above all, discouraging self-denial in any way and
                preventing that development of thorough self-control which comes in the
                well-regulated large family. Besides, unfortunately, it is just the neurotic
                individuals who most need thorough training in self-control and whose parents suffer
                from the same nervous condition (for, while disease is not inherited, defects are
                inherited), that are deprived of such regular training in self-control because of
                the inability of their parents to regulate either themselves or others properly.
                Here is the secret of the more frequent development of neurotic symptoms in recent
                years. It is not so much the strenuous life as the lack of training of the will so
                that the faculty of free will can be used properly. Lacking this, hysterical
                symptoms, unethical tendencies, lack of self-control become easily manifest. The
                training that would prevent these should come early in life, and when it does not it
                is very difficult to make up for it later. Just as far as possible, however, it is
                the duty of the psychotherapeutist to supply by suggestions as to training and
                discipline for the education of the will those things that have unfortunately been
                missed.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Reeducation of the will is a method of psychotherapy distinct from and
                  in addition to the practice of suggestion, and is dependent upon intelligent,
                  methodical and persistent educational efforts directed to the exaltation of will
                  power.

                 In average individuals there exists a tremendous disproportion between
                  the high degree of their intellectual culture and the humiliating weakness of
                  their will power.

                 Will power is the final arbiter of choice. It is the supreme  court of the intellect, and the battleground of
                  character formation.

                 The will represents to the mind what the sum-total does to a column of
                  figures. It is the master-builder of character and the architect of
                  destiny.

                 Man is a responsible being-- possessing the power of choice. We lease
                  our minds for hire but we never rent our wills.

                 The mind of weak will thinks rapidly and superficially. The strong
                  will compels deep, deliberate, and logical thought.

                 Without will-supervision, the mind wanders aimlessly in the midst of
                  the pleasant scenes of its own imagination.

                 Character formation represents the grand and sublime purpose of life
                  and is influenced by our every thought, word, and action.

                 Conscience distinguishes man from the animal, and has for its basis
                  our hereditary and acquired mental attitudes and moral standards.

                 Man is a religious animal-- a spiritual being. Primitive man is
                  always religious. He universally worships something.

                 Many nervous troubles arise from failure to regulate the emotions;
                  likewise failure to distinguish between ideas and emotions.

                 Some nervous patients are the victims of a continuous emotional riot,
                  which results in an endless array of mental confusion and physical
                  agitation.

                 You can never hope to succeed in the mastery of the mind until these
                  desperadoes of emotion are conquered and eliminated.

                 Concentration of thought is natural to the healthy and normal mind
                  when attention is secured and interest aroused.

                 The exaltation of the will by reeducational therapeutics represents
                  the acme of modern psychotherapy.

                 The kaleidoscope of thought steadily revolves, sometimes quite
                  independent of our immediate efforts to control the process, but training will
                  bring about a high degree of mastery.

                 Reeducation is practiced by fully and frankly explaining to the
                  patient his condition, just as it appears to the practitioner. The doctor is the
                  teacher, the patient the pupil.

                 Reeducational therapeutics possesses a wide range both as to the
                  physicians who may practice it and the patients who may be benefited
                  thereby.

                 In the last analysis, man, by the exercise of his power of choice, is
                  found to possess a free will and is not a helpless victim of biologic
                  determinism.

                 The calamity of the present age is the neglect of will-training. The
                  crying need of the hour is for an adjustment of our educational system with a view
                  to strengthening the will.
              
            
          

          

            

            CHAPTER XXVII DECISION DEVELOPMENT

            IN NUMEROUS places throughout this work attention has been called
              to that chronic form of indecision which is characteristic of the neurasthenic states;
              while we have repeatedly laid emphasis upon those modes of employment and those forms
              of recreation which tend to stimulate the practice of decision. In this chapter we
              desire to lay the axe at the root of this tree of indecision and inaction.

            
              THE WILL IN ACTION

              Indecision represents a dormant will-- a sleeping will power. Will power is
                comparable to the latent energy of a chunk of dynamite or to the potential
                possibilities of a great sixteen-inch gun quietly resting on its carriage at some
                seaport fortification. Choice or definite desire represent the explosive
                possibilities of the dynamite and the destructive powers of the grim gun, while
                decision is the explosion of the one and the firing of the other. You may possess a
                strong will and have the very best of intentions, but nothing really happens in the
                conquest of nerves until you actually pull the trigger-- until you really reach a
                  final decision.

              Decision represents the highest possibility of human mind action; it is the most
                powerful influence which any human being can bring to bear upon a confused brain and
                a disordered nervous system. It is the one power which can modify and control one's
                thoughts, feelings, habits, and general behavior.

              The confused brain of the confirmed neurasthenic and the disordered nerves of the
                chronic psychasthenic are little afraid of or influenced by "good intentions,"
                "heart-felt desires," "noble aspirations," or "high hopes." All of these things put
                together will produce little or no effect on a bad case of "nerves"; but  the very instant you really decide that some things
                must stop and that certain other things are going to happen-- that very moment your
                whole mind takes on a new phase and your entire nervous system begins to sit right
                up and take notice.
            

            
              DECISION AND DESTINY

              Before you arrive at a definite decision, your will power is comparatively
                helpless-- it is quite powerless to enforce the mandates of your own reason and
                judgment; whereas, after formulating a decision you find that
                every soul power quickly swings into line-- every force of mind and every energy of
                body are immediately rendered subservient to the decrees and mandates of the
                will.

              Now, at last-- and through the power of definite decision-- the human will becomes
                what God designed it should be, the all powerful sovereign guide and ruler of the
                whole mental, moral, and physical domain of man's experience. But the will does not
                become such a power in one's life until he has learned how to decide things-- until
                he has learned how to reach definite conclusions and then to throw himself whole
                heartedly and unreservedly into the actual execution and carrying out of those
                conclusions. That is decision, and it never fails to spell
                deliverance for all those nervous sufferers who through patient perseverance attain
                this practice.

              The fearful and diffident business man makes little headway in this day and
                generation. It is still true that "faint heart ne'er won fair lady." These victims
                of indecision still doubt their religious experience and worry over the forgiveness
                of their sins simply because they cannot bring themselves to the point of deciding--
                believing-- the very cardinal teachings of the religion they professedly accept.

              The wars and racial struggles of the past compelled decision and action; and, in a
                measure, the fierce competitive struggles of our present day commerce accomplish the
                same desirable ends, as also do the various competitive games and sports; but none
                of these things begin to compare with the value and force of that deliberate,
                personal, and powerful decision of the mind which one makes after carefully
                scrutinizing the whole of the  evidence submitted to
                the supreme court of the human intellect. Such a decision when once made, and when
                the maker is imbued with sufficient loyalty and patriotism, represents the acme of
                power and possibility in the remodeling and remaking of human character.

              Of course, the proper time and place to begin all this training and practice in
                deciding things-- and deciding them rightly-- is in childhood. Teach the little ones
                how to "make up their minds," how to arrive at speedy and intelligent conclusions.
                Help them early to overcome hesitation and halting. Assist them to reach settled
                positions on every question which may chance to come up for discussion.

              So important, indeed, is this matter of cultivating and strengthening one's
                decisions of the will, that I think we may safely say that the strength of one's
                character is directly determined by and is commensurate with the number and
                magnitude of one's decisions. It is literally true that the number and virility of
                one's decisions is the equivalent of one's character.
            

            
              STIFLING THE WILL

              Indecision represents the fetter-irons which manacle and effectively hold down the
                strongest of human wills. No weak and trembling neurasthene was ever able to exalt
                his own will and deliver his soul from the inertia and ennui of the nervous states
                until he had first conquered indecision and overthrown procrastination. "Putting
                things off" is the bane of nervous sufferers.

              The power of choice, the will, reason, judgment, and other mental powers all
                represent a marvelous mechanism wondrously adapted for the performance of certain
                highly specialized functions in the arena of human affairs; the stage is perfectly
                set, the machinery is all beautifully fashioned and exquisitely assembled, but riot
                a wheel moves, the whole mechanism is dead and dormant, this vast organization of
                mind and matter is powerless and impotent-- effectually paralyzed by indecision. Now
                observe this same inefficient and indolent individual after he begins to wake up--
                after he begins to "make up his mind"-- watch him arrive at a final conclusion; let
                him reach a decision, and then  like
                a flash-- like the pressing of an electric button-- the whole picture is instantly
                changed; every faculty of mind and body suddenly takes on new life and power, the
                dead and helpless sentiments and resolutions of yesterday spring into life and
                become the active and living results of today. And so while indecision means
                weakness and death, decision actually breathes the breath of life into our
                slumbering mentality and infuses new life and courage into our weak and wavering
                souls. Positive decision is the resurrection of life to those who sleep in the
                neurasthenic valley of the dry bones of irresolution and indecision.
            

            
              PRACTICING DECISION

              At just about this point the patient begins to ask questions, and the first one is:
                "But, doctor, how can I begin to cultivate the decision habit? How shall I begin to
                develop decisiveness?" And my reply is: "Just as you would develop your memory or
                your muscle-- by persistent exercise."

              Practice deciding things-- practice making up your mind quickly and positively; and
                then when you have made a choice, be patriotically loyal to your decision, stand by
                your selection and fight to the last ditch for the defense of the thing you have
                decided on. Be determined-- only don't be foolish enough to carry things to that
                extreme where you wear yourself out trying to "carry through" every trifling notion
                which might chance to pass through your mind; don't let determination degenerate
                into common contrariness. Choose good things-- things and ideas worth while-- and
                then, like a good soldier, stick to your choice and stand by your decision.

              In your business affairs don't allow indecision to steal into the handling of your
                minor daily affairs. Don't sit at the desk and handle and rehandle your letters and
                papers. Take up one thing and put it through-- finish it. Don't form that habit of
                traveling in a circle.

              In the affairs of the home don't flit from one thing to another and from one room
                to another. Take up one task and stick to it until it is finished. Complete one job
                before you begin another. Form the habit of finishing things
                before you leave them.

              

              All of our outdoor sports and most of our competitive games afford opportunities
                for developing our reason and judgment and in the end to form conclusions-- to
                decide things-- and in this way they are all valuable adjuncts in the treatment and
                cure of indecision; and indecision, be it remembered, is typical of the neurasthenic
                state of mind.

              But the average patient needs to be set at something definite which will help him
                to perfect and develop his powers of decision. We all like those intense situations
                in life which compel decision. It is the crisis on land or on sea which calls forth
                that superb decision which characterizes the conduct of the hero as he unconsciously
                enacts his role of heroism. This is probably the secret of the almost universal
                appeal which gambling and games of chance make to the human race. There seems to be
                a universal recognition of the need of practicing decision, and yet so many shirk
                the responsibility unless it is thrust upon them by chance or accident. We seldom
                show what is really in us until we encounter a crisis.

              When not carried to extremes, I have found chess and checkers to be of considerable
                value in this work of occupying the mind and at the same time presenting frequently
                recurring situations which call not only for choosing, willing, etc., but which also
                call for actual and definite decision. The checker player should
                think out his situation carefully, canvass the whole layout, and then make his move
                with determination and decision; and then cheerfully stand by it-- make the best of
                it. In prescribing checkers as a psychotherapeutic procedure I stipulate that a
                watch shall be kept on the table-- and that under no circumstances shall more than
                sixty seconds be consumed in contemplating a move. In all ordinary cases, the move
                should be made within thirty seconds. This time element is the one thing essential
                in the therapeutics of checker playing.

              It makes little difference whether you make a good move or a bad move; the thing of
                value is the fact that you were able to reach, within sixty seconds, a decision to
                move, and executed the decision-- that is the real therapeutic element in the game,
                Entirely independent of who may be the best checker player, from our standpoint, he
                who formulates the most decisions and  most ably
                executes them-- executes them most courageously and fearlessly-- is getting the
                greatest good out of the game.
            

            
              SETTLING THINGS

              There are a lot of good people in this world who are everlastingly "on the fence"--
                they never seem to be able to get anything settled. Now, when these unfortunate
                people get neurasthenia-- and they are just the ones who most frequently do-- they
                are very apt to have a bad case of it. These chronically undecided patients have
                simply got to learn how to "settle things"-- and then to settle it that
                  they are settled.

              I think I can probably help my indecision readers by relating how one of my
                nervously hoodooed patients cured himself of this everlasting halting between two
                opinions. He was very fond of taking long walks in the city. He was in the habit of
                walking from fifty to one hundred blocks every day. This patient complained to me of
                the monotony of having always to walk on one certain street; whereupon I asked him
                why he did not vary his route, and this was his reply: "Well, you see, doctor, it
                  is like this. When I am out walking I am constantly worrying about whether I shall
                  turn to the right or turn to the left; and so in order to avoid the pain and
                  torture of deciding, I keep straight ahead." I found that it was a real misery
                for this man quickly to decide whether he should turn to the left or to the right
                when he was out taking his "constitutional" stroll. Within six weeks he soundly
                cured himself of this peculiar indecision by carrying out my instructions, which
                were as follows: Never to walk over three blocks without turning a corner. Pay no
                attention to which way you are to turn until you get right up to the corner. Carry a
                nickel or a dime in the palm of the hand and just as you reach the corner flip the
                coin, (heads, turn to the right; tails, turn to the left). Call the direction out
                loud, and wheel instantly in the direction which the flipping of the coin had
                determined. The cure in this case was complete and perfect. This patient later
                reported to me that he had become "fascinated with the game"-- that he had kept a
                tally on himself for the last one thousand blocks and that he had turned 542 times
                to the left and 458 times to the right.

              

              Having gained the victory over indecision on this minor point, this patient carried
                the fight on through his experience, and it proved to be a mighty factor in his
                emancipation from the slavery of "nerves."
            

            
              DISCIPLINE AS A REMEDY

              It was the experience of this patient that led me seriously to consider the
                advisability of utilizing gymnasium drills, physical culture classes, and military
                drills as helpful aids in cultivating decision-- instantaneous obedience to the
                orders issued-- immediate action on the command given. I found this class-discipline
                invaluable in combating this sort of chronic neurasthenic indecision, and have
                systematically used these methods from that day to the present time.

              Even the necessary discipline and decision required to run an automobile is of
                value in training the patient in habits of decision. When hesitating over trifles,
                form the habit of allowing yourself not more than three chances to decide; on the
                third attempt call "strikes" on yourself-- "three strikes and out"-- and force
                yourself to stand by the third choice. Establish this as one of the laws of your
                program-- and then stick to the "rules of the game."

              After practicing immediate obedience to the commands of a drill master or gymnasium
                leader for a few weeks, you so accustom yourself to instantaneous decision that it
                becomes much easier to secure prompt action on the part of both mind and body in
                response to your own mental mandates.

              It is in this very manner that loyalty to your doctor and implicit obedience to his
                orders help you to stem the tide of indecision and aid you in getting the mind
                trained and disciplined to the point where it will both obey orders and decide
                policies-- formulate decisions-- and all this is highly essential to the cure of
                nervousness.
            

            
              FORCED DECISIONS

              In every possible situation in life watch for opportunities to force the mind to
                definite decision-- and give little worry to the fact that you so often decide in
                the wrong. That is of little  consequence; that is a
                matter of judgment and experience. The all important thing is the development of the
                power of decision-- and that is accomplished just the same and just as well in the
                case where you make a mistake as in the case when you were right. It is the exercise
                and practice that make perfect. You can't steer a ship when it is standing still,
                but start the propellers-- even if it is headed in the wrong direction-- and a wise
                pilot can quickly wheel it around and point her nose towards the port of desire.

              Therefore, in your battle with "nerves," the most powerful weapon you can ever
                wield is the simple experience of "making up your mind" to get well, "making up your
                mind" to triumph over every obstacle and overcome every handicap. Learn how to reach
                final decisions and then "stand pat" until you can begin to realize that the victory
                is yours and the battle won.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Definite decision represents the will in action. Will power is latent
                  energy-- decision is applied energy.

                 Nothing really happens in the conquest of nerves until you pull the
                  trigger of decision.

                 Decision represents the highest possibility of human mind action; it
                  is a power which can modify and control one's thoughts, feelings, and
                  habits.

                 Decision swings every soul power, every force of mind and every energy
                  of body into line and renders them all subservient to the mandates of the
                  will.

                 Decision never fails to spell deliverance for all neurotics who by
                  patient perseverance attain its practice.

                 Indecision means defeat in business, society, politics, and
                  religion.

                 Competitive commerce, competitive sports, and common games all
                  contribute situations which aid in the development of decision.

                 Deliberate and calm decision represents the acme of power and
                  possibility in the remodeling of human character.

                 Early childhood is the proper time to begin decision practice. Teach
                  the children how to "make up their minds."

                 The strength of one's character is directly determined by ad is
                  commensurate with the number and magnitude of one's decisions.

                 Indecision represents the fetter-irons which manacle and effectively
                  hold down the strongest of human wills.

                

                 "Putting things off" is the bane of neurasthenics; and the conquest
                  of indecision is the secret of overthrowing procrastination.

                 The marvelous mechanism of mind and body are all effectually
                  paralyzed by indecision. Decision infuses new life into the entire
                  organization.

                 Decision is developed by persistent exercise-- just as you strengthen
                  and develop your memory or your muscles.

                 Be determined; but don't make the mistake of trying to "carry
                  through" every trifling notion which may enter your head.

                 Look out for indecision in your daily business affairs or household
                  duties. Finish one thing before you begin another.

                 Remember how the man cured himself of direction-indecision by
                  flipping the coin at the corner.

                 Chess and checkers when played on a time limit for "moves" are highly
                  valuable in many cases. They present frequently recurring situations which involve
                  decision.

                 Remember-- the wrong move you make develops decision just as well as
                  the right one. Decision is the thing you are after; practice will perfect
                  judgment.

                 Get over the habit of being "on the fence." Learn how to "settle
                  things"-- and settle it that they are settled.

                 Gymnasium drills, physical culture classes, and military drills are
                  all helpful in developing decision and instantaneous obedience.

                 Even the discipline and decision required to run an automobile are an
                  aid in combating chronic indecision.

                 Loyalty to your doctor and implicit obedience to his orders help you
                  to stem the tide of indecision.

                 Watch for opportunities to force the mind to make definite
                  decisions.

                 Make up your mind to get well-- make up your mind to triumph over
                  every obstacle-- and then "stand pat" until you can recognize that the victory is
                  yours.
              
            
          

          
            
            CHAPTER XXVIII THE RELIEF OF REPRESSED
              EMOTIONS

            THIS new theory of modern psychotherapy assumes that all functional
              nervous disorders such as afflict neurasthenics, psychasthenics, and hysterics,
              largely have their origin in some emotional stress or repression. It is taught that
              these emotions quite often arise in early childhood, when they are little understood
              or when, through fear or conventionality, their expression is found to be impossible
              or undesirable. This original experience of emotional submergence may be entirely
              forgotten in later years, but is believed to be able to give rise to a train of
              subsequent morbid feelings and impulses which are able later to torture the mind and
              disorder the lives of these nervously predisposed individuals.

            
              THE METHOD OF PSYCHANALYSIS

              The methods of psychanalysis aim at going back in an analytical manner into the
                patient's mind to rediscover and recall to the consciousness these mischief-making
                emotional mummies, and then to lead the patient to a free and full confession of
                these hidden feelings and emotions and thus to relieve the mind of its secret
                burdens. In this way the nervous individual is able to obtain that relief and
                satisfaction which invariably accompanies the free and unhampered expression of
                one's thoughts and feelings, and there can be no questioning of the fact that this
                work of discovering buried emotions and assisting the patient in his confession and
                elimination is immediately followed by a tremendous increase in the patient's peace
                of mind as well as by an enormous improvement in his nervous symptoms and physical
                behavior.

              While Freud utilized this idea of mental catharsis in his new system of
                psychotherapeutics, nevertheless, we believe it was Breuer who was in reality the
                originator of this method of  psychotherapy, although
                he did not attach the sex significance to his teachings that Freud does. Whatever
                the criticism that we may make of the school of psychanalysis, we must commend it
                for its utter disregard of hypnotism and associated methods which characterized the
                early French practitioners of psychotherapy.
            

            
              MEMORY EXPLORATION

              The patient in his efforts to search back into early childhood for lost memories
                and repressed emotions is aided by an appeal to his association centers through the
                speaking or writing of suggestive words, while he (the patient) is requested to
                mention other words that are directly related in his mind to those suggested; for
                instance, the word "barn" suggests the word "horse." The word "horse" suggests a
                "drive in the country," and this in turn suggests a runaway long ago, the buried
                fear of which, with its accompanying emotional fright, has unconsciously made the
                patient nervous during every carriage ride from that day to this.

              I am able to share some of the enthusiasm of these teachers of the psycho-analytic
                method, for the brilliancy and permanency of the results attendant upon the actual
                discovery and literal elimination of these mental burdens of repressed emotion are
                highly gratifying, but I am forced to take issue with Freud and his colleagues, who,
                I think, enormously overestimate the influence and significance of submerged sex
                impulses and repressed erotic experiences. I am becoming more and more convinced
                that these practitioners who find disturbances of the sexual experience to be at the
                bottom of all cases of nervous disorder and functional psychic derangement have
                fallen into the error of mistaking the results of their own unwise suggestions to
                the patient for fundamental causes of disease. By this I mean that it is entirely
                possible in the examining and questioning of nervous patients so to conduct the
                investigation and to place such over-emphasis upon the sex element of the mental
                contents as to deceive ourselves into the over-recognition of the relative
                importance of these particular forms of emotion as a cause of functional nervous
                derangements.
            

            

            
              MENTAL CATHARSIS

              The real aim of psychanalysis is quite different from the purpose and methods of
                suggestion. It is the aim of suggestion to counteract, substitute, and abolish
                unhealthy ideas, quite regardless of their nature and origin; but the more recent
                methods of psychotherapy-- mental catharsis-- aim at tracing these disordered ideas
                back to their psychological, physiological, or sociological source, and thus seek to
                eliminate them from the psychic domain, root and branch, and so far as the
                philosophy of this method is concerned, it is far from recent. Aristotle, the Greek
                philosopher, advocated some such a procedure designed to purge the mind of its
                inharmonious emotions, and he regarded such therapeutic methods as the acme of
                educational art. He assigned to the drama as its chief function the elimination or
                catharsis of pity and terror. That nervous terror and emotional repression can be
                relieved by elimination and expression is demonstrated by the satisfaction and
                relaxation which so often follows the giving vent to one's feelings during periods
                of excitement or temper, although such methods of getting relief are far from
                ideal.

              Every human being is destined to carry throughout life more or less of an emotional
                reserve; but those emotions which produce the greatest havoc in our psychic
                experience belong more largely to that class of human feelings and impulses which
                are so largely misunderstood, or not understood at all, by the average man or
                woman-- particularly the young. It is this lack of biologic education, this lack of
                self-understanding, that enables the common and universal impulses of anger,
                jealousy, fear, and the sexual emotions, to exert such a disastrous influence upon
                the well-being of the mental and nervous health of the individual.
            

            
              YOUTHFUL CONFIDENCES

              Confidential talks on the part of the young with their parents and the conferences
                of the confessional or the consulting room on the part of adults with their
                religious and medical advisors all constitute a sort of indirect system of psychic
                catharsis. It would seem that the very moment a human mind-- especially  that of the young, the nervous, and the emotional--
                becomes locked within itself, that the accumulation of unexpressed feelings,
                together with the birth and growth of uneliminated emotions, are soon able to
                produce such a state of nervous tension and self-consciousness as to jeopardize the
                health and happiness of these self-centered and mind-locked individuals.

              Especially is it advisable during adolescence that parents and teachers should
                literally and liberally share the emotional life of the boy or girl who is just
                blossoming into manhood and womanhood. It is at these critical periods of life that
                the freest expression of the thoughts and feelings should be encouraged and should
                be sympathetically and intelligently entered into by the natural guardians who are
                entrusted with the responsibility of skillfully guiding the ship of being through
                the troublous waters which prefigure this critical period of every human's life.
            

            
              SEX EMOTIONS

              I recently had under my care a semi-hysterical young woman who had previously been
                treated by these methods upon the hypothesis that her hysterical tendencies were all
                anchored in some repression or derangement of the sexual life, and after making
                splendid progress for a number of months in response to treatment along the lines of
                educational therapeutics, she confided to me one day that she seriously doubted
                having been guilty of many of the sexual experiences to which she had confessed
                while undergoing her former course of treatment and added this significant
                statement: "Really, doctor, I think some of these things were put into my head by
                  the constant talking about sex matters during the course of my treatment and by
                  being so emphatically told that all my nervous troubles had their root and origin
                  in some derangement of my psychic sex life." And I was bound to admit to the
                patient that I concurred in her conclusion.

              The average person is more highly suggestible in matters pertaining to sex than in
                any other avenue of human experience. It is not at all difficult, therefore, to
                explain or understand how enthusiasts, who are working along these lines of sex
                emotion as  the exclusive field for psychanalysis, are
                able, almost without exception, to arrive at some sort of sex-error, which they
                could seize upon as the etiologic factor wholly responsible for the patient's
                neurosis. I think it is the failure to recognize this fact of sex-suggestion that
                has led Freud and his school so far afield from what is otherwise the most highly
                scientific and rational school of psychotherapeutic procedure which has been
                developed up to date.

              It is my opinion that while sex emotions are often the exclusive cause of our
                nervous troubles and are more or less concerned in practically every individual
                suffering from a psychoneurosis, nevertheless, I have been able to dig up in the
                minds of these patients and bring forth other offending complexes, the central idea
                of which was fear, fright, regret, sorrow, together with other moral and spiritual
                delinquencies, apparently without the pale of the sex realm.
            

            
              SELF-ANALYSIS

              I think the mistake that the practitioners of psychanalysis have made is that they
                have done too much of the analyzing themselves. In some cases I find it better to
                direct efforts along this line in the channels of self-analysis, expertly guiding
                the patient while she digs down into her mind and brings forth these ancent psychic
                slivers which are the cause of her mental unrest and nervous dissatisfaction. It
                must be remembered in treating these patients (when they have reached a certain
                stage) that the less we do for them as physicians, the better it is for the patient
                and the permanency of their cure. I lost all faith in his exclusive sexual origin of
                the psycho-neuroses when, as result of a few experiments in the clinic, I discovered
                I could, in the case of suggestible and hysteric patients, lead them to believe in
                and settle upon almost any idea that I forcefully reiterated as a cause of their
                nervous troubles.

              The most important item in the treatment of these cases, even if the offending
                complex is essentially one concerned in the sex life of the patient, is to so
                arrange the recreational, vocational, and domestic life of the individual that the
                mind which has become so highly sensitized to these morbid sex feelings shall  be crowded brim full of healthy interests and normal
                ideas which shall be so well cultivated that they will literally sweep the diseased
                mind clean of these disordered, unhealthy, and unwholesome feelings and impulses.
                All physical means, such as baths, massage, and electricity, as well as outdoor and
                athletic exercises, should be utilized as therapeutic aids to help these minds in
                the great fight to restore themselves to a healthful and normal attitude.
            

            
              PSYCHOTHERAPEUTIC PROPRIETIES

              Some practitioners of psychanalysis go so far as to practically put a sexual
                interpretation upon every dream that passes through the human mind, and in the
                opinion of the author, their efforts in this direction are frequently absurdly
                ridiculous, as well as being far from wholesome and uplifting upon the mind of the
                patient. The attachment of the patient to the physician, so prone to occur in
                hysteric subjects if the physician be at all lax in his attitude, is peculiarly
                fostered by these exclusive sex teachings of certain practitioners of psychanalysis.
                There are the daily, or almost daily, long-continued conversations on sexual matters
                extending over many months of time-- sometime as long as three years-- conversations
                of the most intimate character. I look upon it as an utterly unethical and highly
                unhealthy experience for nervous patients-- especially neurotic and hysterical young
                women-- to go to the physician's office for repeated and lengthy consultations in
                which the center and theme of conference is the subject of the patient's sex life. I
                think such patients, notwithstanding their evident need of psychotherapeutic aid,
                will get more good in the end if they will take to the woods, study the birds,
                gather flowers, or engage in some other form of suitable and wholesome social
                diversion and recreation. And all this I say with a full recognition that there is
                more or less disorder of the sexual life in the vast majority of all our neurotic
                patients, both single and married. I do not ignore this element in my treatment of
                these cases, as I find myself most fortunately situated in that my good wife is also
                my professional associate. And all this I mention merely to make clear that while I
                cannot follow the Freudian school  some of its
                philosophy, and while I regard the over-emphasis of sex matters as highly disastrous
                and deteriorating in the practice of psychotherapy, nevertheless, I am equally
                wide-awake to recognize the necessity of properly treating and eliminating whatever
                of disordered impulses and emotions of this nature may be present in the mind and
                experience of any given patient.

              The time has come to utter both protest and warning against this tendency to direct
                psychotherapy into sordid and sexual channels. I am beginning to think that the
                future will look back upon the present day and generation as having gone sex-mad.
                The red-light district seems to be monopolizing the stage and to possess the brains
                of a majority of our novelists, and now this modern sex mania threatens to take
                possession of psychic medicine, and if mental medicine is to be directed into these
                exclusive and suggestive fields, great harm is going to be done to the minds of our
                nervous patients. Unwholesome and undesirable association of ideas are going to be
                suggested to the minds of nervous sufferers and they are going to be tormented with
                these unwholesome and undesirable associations throughout the rest of their lives.
                Immorality both in thought and act can only be the outcome of these foolish and
                absurd teachings regarding the cause and cure of our common nervous disorders.
            

            
              EMOTIONAL REPRESSION

              It is indeed pathetic to note the large number of square human pegs who are trying
                to fit into vocational round holes-- sociological misfits, human plants that are
                trying to grow in the wrong climate. We find cases among both men and women, but
                more particularly among women who are growing old, getting well up into the
                thirties. They find themselves alone in the world. They not only have no one to love
                them but they are in a worse state-- they have no one to love, and they get into
                that morbid state of mind where they feel there is not a single soul in the world
                who really understands them. They may naturally not be oversuccessful in making
                their way along in social circles, and then to all this is added the anxiety and  worry not only of earning a livelihood, but as to what
                they shall do in the future as they grow older. About this time some form of
                nervousness begins to make its appearance, either spontaneously on the basis of
                heredity, coupled with this experience of loneliness and isolation, or as a result
                of some mental overworry, physical overwork, or perchance, some catastrophe in the
                individual's experience or that of his family, and then the real mischief-- nervous
                prostration-- shows its hand.

              In other cases the real nervousness begins as a child, it may be with a violent
                whipping or some other unusually harsh criticism. It may come with disappointment in
                love or the discovery of the unfaithfulness of the adored one, or it may be sudden
                death in the family. In this way the foundation is laid for a life-long invalidism
                if the patient does not by chance fall into the expert hands of a sympathetic
                medical counselor.

              Sometimes we find the musician, the artist, or the author, that is those who have
                had longings and ambitions in these directions, but who have failed at least they
                have failed to make a commercial success of their art-- and these individuals,
                especially in maiden ladies and old bachelors, begin to become self-centered and
                break down their health by brooding over their failures and worrying about their
                future. Again we find those who do not seem to be able to express their affection in
                terms which other members of society can recognize or appreciate. It was one such
                patient as this who, in writing to her physician, thus described her unsatisfied
                longings: "Is there no one in the world who cares to be deeply loved? Perhaps it
                  is that only deep natures can bear to receive deep devotion, and that the ordinary
                  person, under these circumstances, merely feels disgust and resentment toward
                  those who bring to the surface that which hitherto had been submerged and
                  unsuspected. I cannot understand it at all, but I feel convinced that there is in
                  me some force which, denied a natural outlet, could still be utilized and made
                  productive in some direction."
            

            
              PHYSIOLOGY OF THE EMOTIONS

              When we come to analyze and summarize the views of Lange, James, and other students
                of the physiology and the mechanics  of emotion, we
                are further forced to the conclusion that those commingled, complex feelings of
                sensation and consciousness which we commonly call emotions are the result of a
                whole series of disturbances and reactions in the motor, vasomotor, and glandular
                mechanism of the body; in other words, what we call the emotion is simply our
                recognition-- our consciousness-- of these physical changes which are taking place
                in the organism. Now, I cannot accept this purely physiological view of the origin
                of human emotions. I believe that the mental state also contributes to the
                production of these characteristic and peculiarly human feelings. When James says
                that we suffer from a sense of affliction because we weep, that we are angry because
                we fight, and that we are frightened because we tremble, I can only partially agree
                with him. I must also recognize the fact that when a mother has lost an only child,
                she first experiences a perception, an idea, and that it is this idea that saddens
                her, and then her sorrow is shown and accompanied by tears. Of course, it may be
                argued that the majority of our mental representations-- our ideas-- are also
                awakened by peripheral stimuli, and it is only in the light of this latter argument
                that we can accept of a teaching which assigns the origin of all emotion to purely
                physical conditions in the organism.

              One authority, in summing this matter up, has expressed our views so well that we
                beg to quote as follows: 
                  In the last analysis man experiences emotions. This ultimate phenomenon is
                    psychic and irreducible. Why should it occur more easily because we have vaguely
                    noticed our heart beats and tears in our eyes? Why should it not follow
                    directly, as one idea follows another, the mental representation of the death of
                    some one we love? To pretend that we weep first, and that we are moved
                    afterward, is, as our authors naively acknowledge, to wound common sense, the
                    guiding quality of intelligence. The first characteristic of emotion is, to my
                    mind, its ideogenic origin. Then follows the irradiation of the stimulus to
                    other centers, the wakening of previous mental representations that are
                    instinctive or acquired, creating psychic emotion. Then follow the physiological
                    manifestations of the mental condition in the form of actions, which are always
                    consecutive to the idea. Many persons allow themselves to be  impressed by all the sensations that they
                    experience. Some functional disorder which would leave a well-balanced person
                    wholly indifferent strikes them with fear. If they have a palpitation of the
                    heart, they immediately dread imminent syncope; a sensation of vertigo makes
                    them fear for their head. They are afraid of all diseases; they are often even
                    afraid of fear. This is so frequent that physicians have invented the term
                    "Phobophobia."
                
            

            
              MEMORY GHOSTS

              In the treatment of neurasthenics and hysterics, at just about that time when we
                feel the patient is making splendid progress, achieving an excellent conquest of
                their disjointed minds and disordered memories-- just about this time, they come
                into the office in utter despair and tell you that since their last conference with
                you they have suffered the tortures of the damned. They begin a rehearsal of all
                their former bad symptoms and in pathetic tones assure you that everything is just
                as bad or worse than before they began treatment.

              Now, calm, cool, and careful analysis of what they tell you almost unfailingly
                reveals the fact that they are suffering from what I call "memory ghosts." By this I
                mean that the memory images of their former disastrous experiences have been able to
                encompass the consciousness in such a way as to torture and terrorize these neurotic
                souls. We are usually able to point out to such patients the definite improvement
                they have experienced in other directions, and are usually able to make sufficiently
                clear to them the nature of their mental tortures that they leave the office
                recognizing that while one can change his habit of thought by persistent training,
                and do so in a comparatively short time, he must reckon with the fact that the
                memories of former habits of misthought may long linger in the mind, that these
                "memory ghosts" may walk forth during the dark hours of depression and thus, at a
                time when one is least able to resist them, take that unfair advantage of the
                patient which seldom fails to precipitate a veritable psychic panic.

              Neurasthenics are all the time complaining of and suffering from the sudden
                appearance of distressing and alarming symptoms for which there seems to be no real
                reason, either psychic  or physical. These symptoms
                which thus mysteriously appear are in many instances but the resurrection of buried
                and supposedly dead fears and emotions which have been long submerged beneath the
                level of consciousness, but which have remained crystallized in the subconscious
                experience ready to spring forth under favorable conditions to startle and plague
                the mind that did so long nourish and harbor them.
            

            
              REGRET AND SORROW

              Regret is the memory which lingers in the mind of some disagreeable experience in
                the past, some feeling or pain which we know might have been avoided had we been
                more thoughtful or careful, and little does the neurasthenic pause to consider how
                useless is this demoralizing regret-- this paralyzing sorrow. There is but one
                useful thing to remember of our past experiences when they are unpleasant or
                unprofitable, and that is the mere memory of the mistake that it may be avoided in
                the future. Regret is translated into remorse, when, in the mistake we have made, we
                recognize that we have sinned against our ideal-- transgressed the laws of
                recognized ethics. The intensity of our remorse only goes to show the degree of our
                morality.

              Sorrow is selfish-- highly selfish, but it is next to impossible to get average
                persons to recognize and admit that this is true when they themselves are the
                victims. However tragic the experience or great the misfortune, what, I ask, may one
                hope to gain by indulging in sorrow, other than increasing sadness and possibly
                despondency and melancholy.
            

            
              TEMPER CONTROL

              What has been said in this chapter relative to the emotional elimination-- to the
                expression and relieving of the emotions-- must not be construed as an excuse for
                the manifestation of temper. Just because an individual sometimes feels better and
                breathes easier after a splenic outburst in no wise proves that the final results on
                either mind or body of such manifestations of anger are beneficial; the fact is they
                are decidedly deleterious. There are other more desirable and also militant  methods of giving vent to one's feelings entirely in
                accordance with good reason and sound judgment, not to say good taste. The same ends
                can be secured by deliberate and soberly controlled reason. For instance, one of
                your servants, employees, or other subordinate makes some stupid blunder that causes
                you no end of inconvenience, and you are tempted to rail out upon him. Just stop for
                a moment and' reason with yourself regarding his opportunities in life, take into
                consideration the fact that he has not had your opportunities of developing
                keenness, clear-sightedness, and a sense of propriety. In other words, dismiss the
                whole matter with a smile, while you repeat over in your mind some phrase which you
                keep handy in the mind for such occasions, like the following: "Well, if he had my
                brains, he would have my job," and you will get just as much emotional relief and
                personal satisfaction as if you had indulged in a regular oldtime blowout.
            

            
              SECTARIAN PSYCHOTHERAPY

              Psychotherapy, as practiced by some enthusiasts, has become a cult, a creed, the
                disciples of which constitute a therapeutic sect. To be admitted to its brotherhood,
                it is merely necessary that the novice should be converted to the faith, not that he
                should be convinced by scientific proof. If the convert claims that his new system
                is followed by cures, he can show none more remarkable than those exhibited by
                hypnotism, divine healing, Christian Science, and like systems.

              These specialized and faddish healing cults are the outcome of the general mystic
                tendency of modern times. Occultism and symbolism in art, music, literature, and the
                drama-- cubism, futurism, modernism, the problem play-- are all suggestions of this
                tendency. On what basis are we to explain such phenomena? Factors which influence
                the social condition, the mode of living, of great masses of people, all have to do
                with this psychopathic tendency. Among them we may enumerate the strain of modern
                living, the strain of the adaptation required by rapid rise in social level with its
                unaccustomed demands and new dissipations, the strain of the struggle of those who
                have not yet achieved their goal, and to this we should add the lateness  of marriage and the difficulties of living a normal,
                physiologic, complete life. Under these circumstances the less stable and weaker
                minds lose their moorings. Dr. Dercum says: 
                  That which is old and has perhaps been acquired slowly, with difficulty and at
                    great cost is forgotten. Truth is rejected for no other reason than that it is
                    old. New things are accepted for no other reason than that they are new. There
                    is an abandonment of all previous standards. The mind is unhinged and takes
                    refuge in mysticism. The real gives place to the unreal, the beautiful to the
                    unbeautiful, the wholesome facts of life to the morbid untruths of disease;
                    actual experiences are belied by pathologic illusions; the evidences of the
                    senses are replaced by the phantasms of exhaustion. To the jaded and blase
                    psychopathic patient, to the chronic hysteric, psychasthenic, hypochondriac, or
                    what not, to the patient who has tried all sorts of procedures these fantastic
                    therapeutic teachings present something new, something interesting, something
                    pruriently exciting. The prophecy can with safety be ventured that these extreme
                    views of psychotherapy will in due course pass away, will in due course be a
                    matter of history, and will then take their place side by side with other mystic
                    practices, such as animal magnetism, mesmerism, Braidism, hypnotism,
                    metallotherapy, Perkinsism, Dowieism, Eddyism, Worcesterism, divine healing, New
                    Thought, the Bergeon treatment of tuberculosis, hanging in locomotor ataxia, and
                    other weird procedures that have time and again swept the earth in epidemic
                    form.
                
            

            
              SANE PSYCHANALYSIS

              My views of the sane and practical applications of psychanalysis are well expressed
                by Burrow in a recent number of the Journal of the American Medical Association: 
                  The policy of the psychanalyst is a robust one, and he outlines it without
                    mitigation or cavil. Simply and directly, however considerately, he explains to
                    the patient the psychologic meaning of his disorder in accordance with the
                    psychanalytic interpretation, and informs him of the bearing of faulty mental
                    habits and adaptations on the causation of nervous processes. The physician
                    explains the essential disharmony at the root of these disorders; the
                    irreconcilability of contending mental and emotional influences within the
                    personality, pointing out the inherent conflict thus embodied in neurotic
                    disorders. He further explains that a true adjustment may  be made only through an honest recognition of the vital unconscious
                    trends with which his personality is now blindly and inadequately contending. At
                    the same time he frankly tells the patient that the process through which the
                    requisite adjustment is to be made entails difficulty, discomfort, and personal
                    sacrifice on his part, and he does not disguise from the patient his
                    responsibility in this effort of readjustment.
                  While not unsympathetic to the suffering of his patient, the psychanalyst makes
                    clear that his is no maudlin or sentimental sympathy, such as would surround the
                    patient with the soft and ineffective ministrations of external attentions, but
                    that his sympathy is virile and adult and allied to what there is within the man
                    of courage and honest purpose. And so the psychanalyst makes clear his position
                    that for him "cure" means a thorough and unflinching acquaintance with one's
                    innermost self, that cure is the attainment of an undistorted vision of life
                    without regard to personal comfort or edification, and that the mind which is
                    torn with inner doubt and discord is prepared to accept terms of peace with
                    itself only when it has been brought to see things in their unembellished
                    truth.
                  When the psychanalyst has at last divested the personality of its artificial
                    mantle, and views the natural man; when we have stripped away the husks of
                    pretense and have dared to look unafraid on the contour of the actual; what we
                    find universally to be the purpose, the real motive of all this elaborate and
                    painstaking mechanism of insincerity and disguise is an ancient and indigenous
                      egotism. Egotism is the effort to see things as we would
                    have them, rather than as they are. Egotism is therefore no respecter of truth.
                    The wish is its sole criterion, for egotism is allied with the unconscious, with
                    the primary, pleasure-principle, the original phase of psychic life with its
                    immediate, hallucinated satisfactions. It is egotism which leads us to choose
                    what is pleasant in preference to what is true. It has been wisely said, "the
                    truth hurts." It is so much easier to be beguiled with flattery and
                    blandishments than to subject oneself to the searching light of
                    self-criticism.
                  Thus it is egotism that lures men into the rosy path of irresponsibility. To
                    follow it, however, is to take the path that leads finally beyond the bounds of
                    organized society toward disintegration and madness, for insanity
                      is nothing else than the unmeasured sway within the personality of this
                      disorganizing principle of egotism.
                  It is this same egotism-- this obstinate "determination to see the world as it
                    is not, but only as he wishes it to be" which is the be setting fallacy of the
                    neurotic personality. We maintain, however,  that
                    while not less deep-seated and obdurate, the egotism of the neurotic individual
                    is somehow incompatible with something better within him. He seems imbued with a
                    finer intellectual insight, a deeper sensitiveness to life's values. Some innate
                    truth endows him with a higher moral criticism, so that instinctively he opposes
                    a barrier to egotism's sensuous appeal, and so the insincerity and untruth into
                    which his native egotism has decoyed him is to such a personality wholly
                    intolerable, and he experiences the intensest mental suffering in consequence of
                    the moral conflict which an enforced resort to such artificial protections has
                    occasioned him. He can no longer find satisfaction in the popular appeasements
                    of the body-social, but becomes more and more deeply introverted, withdrawn and
                    inhibited, until at last his life has become so crippled and confined as to be
                    no longer livable.
                  It is the aim of the psychanalyst to lead such a personality out of his prison
                    of repression and ineffectiveness by means of a patient and honest study of
                    himself. With consideration and respect the psychanalyst traces one by one the
                    causes which have led to his isolation and repression. He leads the patient to a
                    gradual realization of the inherent egotism-- the latent unconscious wish-- that has lain back of his symbolic disguises. Thus the
                    personality is led little by little to an ever-deepening renunciation of the
                    immediate pleasure-satisfactions and to the gradual attainment of a
                    correspondingly broad conscious adaptation.
                  Egotism is precisely the enemy of human progress against which the psychanalyst
                    levels his aim. Under whatsoever sham egotism thinks itself most safely
                    concealed, it is here that the psychanalyst directs his attack.
                  The task of the psychanalyst, therefore, is the readjustment of the neurotic
                    patient through a process of self-elimination. It is his task to replace caprice
                    with logic, emotion with reason, temporary satisfaction with permanent truth.
                    The psychanalyst then takes his stand on adult characterologic ground. He
                    recognizes that the abnegation of immediate selfhood is the highest attainment
                    within the ethical nature of man, that the subversion of the primary infantile
                    pleasure-mode is the supreme renunciation.
                  We contend that since a great part of the beliefs and customs of the community
                    have at heart the same underlying motive as actuates the symptoms of the
                    neurotic patient with his organic evasions and substitutions, namely, an
                    inherent egotism, the trend of the psychanalyst not only aids, in its
                    re-educative influence, the individual, but also makes for a better and a
                    healthier community. For the  psychanalyst would
                    utilize this force resident in the onward effort of mental evolution. We would
                    direct to better uses this impulse of self-attainment which lies at the source
                    of the manifestations which we call life, for with the attainment of
                    consciousness the possibility is opened for converting this genetic life-force
                    into a constructive and a purposive principle. With the gradual enlarging of
                    consciousness it has become more and more adapted to social and ethical ends.
                    Thus through the sublimating process of mental growth, egotism becomes diverted
                    into self-devotion.
                
            

            
              MENTAL DE-CONCENTRATION

              In another chapter we have laid great emphasis upon the importance of
                concentration-- calling attention to the necessity of cultivating this mental power
                as a part of the discipline and training which is to effect the cure of the various
                nervous states. It is equally important in mental catharsis-- in the process of
                emotional elimination -that the nervous patient should learn how to reverse the
                process of concentration, learn how, as it were, to efface ideas from the mind. The
                substitution process does not always work well at first. We teach these patients to
                get their mind off one idea by getting in on an opposite idea. I have recommended to
                my patients the following exercise as an aid in de-concentration, that is, the power
                to shift the mind rapidly from one idea to another. The exercise is as follows:
                Place before the mind two pictures, preferably of different colors or shading, such
                as a country landscape view and by its side a rugged mountain view, or any other two
                pictures which may be selected from any book or magazine. The patient is then
                instructed to concentrate the mind upon one picture, going carefully into the study
                of its details and drawing upon the imagination at great length in working out and
                developing all ideas associated with the viewing of the picture. This is to be kept
                up for a definite length of time, say, five minutes, and then, upon the striking of
                the signal (in the early practice of this experiment the patient is always assisted
                by the physician, the nurse, or some sympathetic member of the family) the eye and
                mind are quickly focused upon the second picture, and for another five minutes the
                imagination is exerted to its utmost in developing the suggested  ideas in relation to this picture. It is difficult to
                imagine the amount of mental training that is afforded by even a short half-hour of
                some exercise similar to this one.

              Different writers have suggested different sorts of exercise for this particular
                purpose, and among others may be mentioned the following: 
                  First exercise: the patient should place from three to five different
                    objects side by side on a sheet of white paper, and then, after impressing them
                    well on his mind, remove one from the paper while at the same time effacing all
                    recollection of it; when doing this it is well for him to close the eyes and
                    make sure whether the object in question has been effaced from his mind. This is
                    most important. He should then do likewise with a second and third object, and
                    so on until all of them have been removed, when, if this has been well done, his
                    mind will retain nothing but the impression of a sheet of white paper.

                  Second exercise: Tell the patient to imagine two or three figures in his
                    mind and then to efface them in succession; when this has been done, no
                    impression of a figure should remain on the brain.

                  Third exercise: Put two objects before the patient and tell him, after
                    effacing one of them, to retain the impression of the other; this can also be
                    done with two words, figures, or phrases.

                  Fourth exercise: The patient should imagine in his mind a large figure-- say
                    figure seven-- and as he thinks of this number imagine that it is becoming
                    smaller and smaller until it completely disappears. He may also imagine it as
                    retreating further and further until no longer visible.
                
              
            

            
              NATURAL CURES

              It is not to be wondered at in the presence of our intricate and complex
                civilization, that susceptible individuals who are hereditarily defective in the
                organization of their nervous system should break down and go to pieces under the
                simple stress and strain of living. Nervous diseases are on the increase today
                because of the fact that there is an increased feebleness of resistance to the
                various acting causes such as  infections, visceral
                disturbances, poisons, and trauma-- both psychic and physical. Thus we see a
                combination of heredity, environment,, and education, all designed to produce what
                may be rightfully called a neuropathic constitution, and the more we study mental
                disturbances, the more we are forced to recognize the physical and environmental
                causes operating to destroy the psychic equilibrium and that the nervous states are
                not wholly psychic in origin.

              We have so many times spoken of the vast curative powers and possibilities of
                suggestion, reeducation, and other methods of mental cure, that we are fearful the
                reader will jump to the conclusion that mental remedial methods are well-nigh
                all-powerful; and while we would not say anything to lessen the reader's faith in
                mental medicine in the realms of functional disorders, we would at this time call
                the reader's attention to the fact that "old Mother Nature" is a wonderfully good
                nurse, not to say a wise and faithful physician, and that time is
                the element of cure in a lot of these nervous disorders, some of which, when not too
                largely hereditary and not too grossly aggravated, show a tendency to run a natural
                course and get well of themselves, sometimes in spite of numerous and aggravating
                blunders in the matter of bunglesome treatment.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Psychanalysis is a new theory of psychotherapy which assumes that
                  functional nervous disorders have their origin in some emotional stress or
                  repression.

                 As a method, psychanalysis consists in an effort to rediscover these
                  emotional mummies and then to bring about their full confession and complete
                  elimination.

                 "Memory exploration" is a method adopted for bringing to light the
                  early repressed, forgotten, and buried emotions of the neurotic patient.

                 "Mental catharsis" is the process of discovering, recognizing,
                  confessing, assimilating, and eliminating repressed and buried emotions.

                 Confidential talks between child and parent and the adult conferences
                  of the confessional or the consulting room constitute indirect systems of psychic
                  catharsis.

                 During adolescence, parents and teachers should literally and
                  liberally share the emotional life of youths just emerging into manhood and
                  womanhood.

                

                 It is a great mistake to attribute all nervous disturbances to
                  disorders in the sex life of the individual. This is the one great error of the
                  modern school of psychanalysts.

                 While the matter of buried sex emotions may concern more or less the
                  life of every neurotic, nevertheless, they are not the exclusive cause of such
                  troubles.

                 In memory exploration self-analysis is the ideal method. Let the
                  physician act merely as a psychic guide, contributing as little of his personality
                  as possible to the experiment.

                 The patient's treatment program should be so occupied with
                  recreational, vocational, and therapeutic procedures that all morbid sex feelings
                  are effectively crowded out of their emotional experience.

                 The effort of some psychotherapists to put a sexual interpretation
                  upon all dreams is absurdly ridiculous and exceedingly to be regretted.

                 There are psychotherapeutic properties and ethics which should be
                  recognized in the treatment of a neurotic patient by the physician who specializes
                  in these matters.

                 Scientific psychotherapy should be saved from this tendency toward
                  sordid sex channels. Mental medicine should endeavor to escape the present day
                  tendencies toward sex madness.

                 Many neurotics are square pegs in round holes-- they are sociological
                  misfits-- human plants growing in the wrong climate.

                 Many cases of emotional repression are found to have their origin in
                  some harsh, shocking, or violent experience of early childhood.

                 Emotions are not purely physiological in origin. Our ideas, however
                  awakened, also contribute something to our emotional feelings.

                 "Memory ghosts" are always walking in the mind of the neurotic
                  patient. These patients are constantly tortured by recalling their former
                  symptoms, sufferings, and psychic nightmares.

                 Longing regrets and selfish sorrow are the bane of neurasthenics and
                  hysterics, and contribute greatly to delaying their final deliverance.

                 The advocacy of emotional catharsis must not be construed as approval
                  of or excuse for the manifestations of anger and uncontrolled temper.

                 Psychotherapy as practiced by some modern enthusiasts has become a
                  cult, a creed, a therapeutic sect.

                 The nervous patient must learn both mental concentration and
                  de-concentration and there are numerous exercises which will aid in both
                  accomplishments.

                

                 In the treatment and cure of the neuroses, while we give due credit
                  to all our modern psychotherapeutic methods, the fact must not be overlooked that
                  it is "old Mother Nature" who is largely doing the real healing work.
              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER XXIX RECREATION AND RELAXATION

            MANY of our nervous patients live in a state of constant muscular
              contraction or nervous agitation. Both mind and body seem to be working under a
              continual nervous lash. The vital powers are driven at a ruinous pace, while the
              nervous energies are dissipated in a lavish and extravagant manner; the energy
              granules of the nerves centers are being used up to no useful purpose. There is a
              tremendous waste of fuel and energy in these various useless movements on the part of
              the human machine. It must be admitted that many nervous persons, especially nervous
              women, reach that place where they actually seem to enjoy this continual state of
              nervous intoxication. They are never happy except when they are excited and
              fidgety.

            
              NERVOUS EXPLOSIONS

              The culmination of nervous irritation and lack of nervous control is seen in the
                explosions and outbursts of acute anger. Both the circulatory and nervous systems
                are concerned in these manifestations of nervous temper. Not only are the nerves
                irritated and under loose control, but we now know that these angry emotions are
                largely determined by certain changes in the visceral circulation. In the initial
                state of anger or passion the face is pale, while the small blood vessels of the
                brain are greatly dilated, enormously congested. The internal pressure is greatly
                raised; in fact, sudden death from apoplexy, due to the rupture of a blood vessel,
                is not an uncommon result of a fit of anger.

              Anger represents the culmination, then, the climax of nervousness. During a fit of
                temper, every function of the body is run at an extravagant pace, and all its work
                is carried on in a  wasteful fashion. Tears may flow
                and saliva run, while all the muscles of the organism are in a state of intensity
                and contraction. This tenseness is also found to pervade the sympathetic nervous
                system, and as a result all the smaller blood-vessels are caused to contract down in
                a sort of spasm. The blood-pressure is enormously raised, the patient executes a
                host of useless movements, which may consist in biting the finger nails, clinching
                the fists, stamping the floor, throwing objects, and giving other exhibitions of
                demoralized and inefficient nervous control.
            

            
              THE FATIGUE STATE

              We cannot have long-continued over-functioning of the nervous system without having
                a subsequent and corresponding stage of under-functioning; and so, the fidgety state
                is sooner or later followed by the fatigue state. The sufferer who is all "keyed
                up," high-strung, nervous, fidgety, and over-active today, must necessarily tomorrow
                or next day begin to experience unusual mental weariness and unnatural physical
                fatigue. Such a patient will then describe himself as feeling "all run down."
                Exactly so; which only goes to show that he was previously all wound up. Nature
                allows this nervous exhaustion to overtake them for the express purpose of keeping
                the nerves from "snapping," to prevent the "boilers from bursting." This sense of
                nervous prostration and physical fatigue which supervenes in the case of these
                excited and agitated creatures is a great and wise safety device-- it is an
                efficient life-saver.

              We should not unduly resist our fatigue and tired feelings. Having done your best
                to economize muscular and nervous expenditure, if at night you find yourself tired
                and weary, simply reason like this: "Yes, I am fairly tired out tonight, but that is
                only natural. I will go to bed and get rested. I shall be all right in the morning."
                And this very acceptance of your fatigue will rest you, more or less, immediately.
                We must learn to cast from us the magnification of our weariness and the emphasis of
                our fatigue. There is something decidedly wrong with one's nerves when everybody is
                constantly "getting on them." They are highly diseased-- abnormally sensitive.
            

            

            
              THE MODERN SPIRIT OF RUSH

              A great deal of the excitement, hurly-burly, and rush of everyday life is to no
                purpose whatever. Even when it is necessary to make haste, let us make it calmly,
                without excitement and needless exertion. The unnatural and needless strain of this
                hurry and rush so contracts the muscles that they cannot engage in rapid locomotion
                without undue exertion, and consequently premature and unnecessary fatigue. In fact,
                some people are so hurried, chronically rushed, that they cannot take time to eat,
                to breathe, or to sleep, in a natural and normal manner. A little systematic
                planning would enable most of them to do a great deal more work each day, and to do
                it with one-half the expenditure of vital energy.

              Nature would do very well for most of us if we would learn to keep our hands off,
                if we would simply leave her unmolested. We are constantly and unnecessarily adding
                to her stress and strain. We are incessantly overworking certain organs and
                underworking others. Everlastingly, we are injecting unhealthy impulses into the
                nervous regulation of our physical forces. In fact, thousands of semi-invalids, if
                they would but learn to relax, to effect a nervous surrender, and then practice the
                simple laws of hygiene with respect to eating, drinking, and sleeping, would
                experience a speedy and more or less complete recovery.
            

            
              THE GOSPEL OF RELAXATION

              We need to acquire more of the play spirit of the child who can run about and romp
                all day without getting unnaturally tired in either mind or body. We need to
                practice relaxation. It seems especially necessary in this generation that men and
                women should learn how to relax. Nervous patients should practice perfect relaxation
                from fifteen minutes to half an hour in the middle of the day.

              Most patients will find it best to begin the practice of the gospel of relaxation
                in connection with their daily recreation and their regular rest and sleep at night.
                Learn to give yourself entirely over to the bed whereon you sleep; do not try to
                hold yourself in the bed or on the bed. If the reader will  observe himself tonight (unless he is fortunately one who has never
                forgotten how, or else has already re-learned how to relax), he will be surprised in
                noticing how continuously and strenuously he holds himself in a certain position on
                the bed. He will find most of his muscles cramped, his head held rigidly in a
                certain position, the whole spinal column more or less rigid; in fact, he has taken
                up his customary job of engaging in hard muscular work in an effort to go to sleep.
                In some cases, the knees will be found all drawn up, the fists clinched, the chin
                flexed, and the jaws set. The entire physical picture is one of downright hard
                labor.

              Now, it will not be an easy matter to change this condition. The gospel of
                relaxation is very easy to preach, but exceedingly hard to practice. Not only do we
                have this harmful physical tension on going to bed, but it is on retiring that some
                people begin to do their most strenuous mental work. The thoughts troop through the
                mind in a regular procession. If you cannot otherwise stop thinking on retiring,
                success may be achieved by allowing the train of thought to march on with all its
                energy, while you begin to concentrate the mind on relaxing the body; and it will
                usually be found that your train of thought slows down just in proportion as the
                muscles are relaxed. There is a great deal of reciprocal action between mind and
                body.

              We have witnessed excellent results in insomnia when the patient's whole mind was
                concentrated on relaxation. The body has been released from its nervous tension, and
                the mind has been occupied with helpful work instead of being engaged in harmful,
                sleep-destroying, and useless worry.

              In all the animal world, man is the only animal that maintains such incessant
                rigidity of the muscles, and such constant nervous tension. It is only necessary to
                lift a sleeping cat or a slumbering babe to see how completely relaxed they are;
                they give over entirely their weight to your supporting arms. And still, we would
                not assert that relaxation alone is the secret of health. It is highly necessary
                that we should have muscular and nervous work. Nerves and muscles must work
                together; but what we are concerned about is the unnecessary strain,  the wasteful and extravagant tension which accompanies
                otherwise useful work, and which so successfully invades even our periods of rest
                and sleep.
            

            
              RELAXATION VERSUS RESISTANCE

              In overcoming most abnormal states of mind and nervous conditions of the body, it
                will be found, as a rule, that more good can be accomplished by relaxation, by
                surrender, than by resistance, by fighting. A large percentage of those things which
                harass and vex us would be robbed of their power further to torture the soul, if we
                could but become thoroughly reconciled to their presence. It is our perpetual
                resistance of these annoying trifles of life that gives them such great power to
                harass and disturb us.

              Many a chronic pain is made worse by complaining about it and resisting it. Had we
                calmly accepted the pain, as a matter of fact, it would have been immediately robbed
                of one-half its torture. Now, we do not make a plea for over-relaxation, for that
                passive submission which shall rob us of the power to resist wrong, and the
                disposition to combat evil; we are simply here registering a plea for nervous
                equilibrium, for regular periods of relaxation, for periods of rest following
                periods of work, and further, to lessen the useless expenditure of energy in
                needless stress and strain, while engaged in our daily work.
            

            
              RECREATIONAL CRAZES

              In addition to the usual interest manifested by the public in recreation, we
                observe certain periodical outbreaks-- veritable crazes-- typified at the present
                time by the moving picture craze on the one hand and the tango-dance craze on the
                other. The scientific study of these recreational epidemics has shed considerable
                light upon the psychology of play and the fundamental basis of both fatigue and
                relaxation. I am convinced there is a direct connection between the enormous
                increase in nervous disorders and fatigue-neuroses of the present time, and the
                great increase in the use of narcotics and alcoholic liquors. There exists the same
                connection between our modern high  tension and the
                more recent great increase in our recreational practices. I think there can be
                traced a direct psychological and physiological connection between these things.

              A new and unheard of interest has recently sprung up in recreational play for both
                the young and the old. A part of the routine medical advice to my adult neurotic
                patients is: "Go back to play if you would get well." We have always advised our
                nervous patients to relax, and I am beginning to learn, in recent years, that about
                the only way they can ever acceptably carry out this bit of advice is to "go back to
                play."

              That this recreational propaganda is bearing fruit is shown by the rate which the
                public interest in our various outdoor games and sports is increasing. The public
                playground movement in the towns and large cities throughout the country is
                progressing by leaps and bounds. Note the rapid spread of the boy scout movement,
                the camp-fire girls, and the growing interest in college athletics. Even the Young
                Men's Christian Association has somewhat switched its religious activities from the
                older order into a sort of recreational and athletic brand of religion. A new
                interest is springing up today in all forms of open air recreation, cross country
                tramps, gardening, swimming, and in addition to the strenuous modern dances, we are
                now experiencing a healthy revival of the older folk-dancing; even story-telling is
                taken up now as a profession, and metropolitan Sunday papers give up a page to some
                professional story-teller.

              Between three hundred and four hundred cities at the present time maintain public
                recreation playgrounds to the number now approaching three thousand, while almost
                seven thousand play superintendents and play leaders are employed in this new
                profession which has sprung up as a part of our national effort to antidote the
                mental over-concentration and the muscular over-contraction associated with the life
                of our modern civilization. Chicago spends millions of dollars each year on its
                public playgrounds and parks. The increase in the number of playgrounds has kept
                pace with the increase in automobiles which have driven the boy off the street, his
                old playground, and the upbuilding of the central portions of the large cities  has deprived the lads of the vacant lot, their former
                ball ground and athletic rendezvous.

              And now the agitation is getting under good headway that all schools must have
                adequate playgrounds; as someone has said, "better the playground without the
                school, than the school without the playground."
            

            
              THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PLAY

              Herbert Spencer was probably the first to advance a theory of play. It was hardly a
                working theory, however, in that he contended that play was merely the overflow of
                the super-abundant animal spirits and vital energy of youth. This seems to us to be
                merely a recognition of the phenomenon of play rather than a theory explanatory of
                its biological or psychological significance. The later theory of Gross, advocated
                in his works The Play of Animals, and The Play of
                  Men, sought to account for play on the ground that children were thus engaged
                in practicing their later and more serious and sober life pursuits. But a later
                theory, and one which to our mind comes more nearly explaining the significance of
                play, is that advanced by Stanley Hall, who seeks to connect the free and easy play
                of the modern child with the more serious and sober pursuits of our ancestors-- our
                more primitive progenitors.

              And so we are told that the spectacle of the young infant suspending its weight
                while holding on to some object, and the early instincts so commonly shown to climb
                ladders, trees, or anything else available, are but racial mementoes of our
                ancestral forest life. The hide and seek games, the desire to convert a blanket into
                a tent, the instinct for "shanties"-- which all boys universally manifest-- we are
                told that these forms of play are but the echo of remote ages when our ancestors
                sojourned in caves, lived in tents, or dwelt in the mountain fastness.

              In this same way the advocates of this theory seek to explain the strange and early
                drawings which the young lad has for wading, swimming, fishing, boating, and other
                forms of aquatic recreation.

              Speed was a vital requisite in past ages, both in the chase  for food and in the ability to escape from one's enemies or to flee from
                danger; and so it is suggested that this is an explanation of that racial heredity
                which is shown in the joy with which the children engage in running, racing,
                coasting, and skating, and in the modern speed mania of the adult for motoring,
                yachting, and airship flying, not to mention horse racing.

              Other universal forms of play such as "tag," "pull-away," and "black man," together
                with mimic fighting and wrestling, the bow and arrow, the slingshot, and the air
                gun, all represent the boy or the girl engaged in play at those very same pursuits
                and primitive activities which, in by-gone generations, constituted the real life
                work and the sober employment of our ancestors at different stages of barbarism and
                civilization. (Fig. 11.)
            

            
              THE PURPOSE OF PLAY

              It is very evident that the play of the child is not a preparation for one's later
                life work. The real work of the world today is found in the school, the bank, the
                office, the shop, the factory, and the railroad; but children do not
                enthusiastically and instinctively play at these, neither. are they greatly
                interested in the stories surrounding these modern spheres of activity. They are
                instinctively led, both in play and tale, to the forest, the stream, the camp, the
                cave, the hut, the forest hunting grounds, and the battlefield, both mimic and
                real.

              Dr. Stanley Hall, Dr. Gulick, and Professor Patrick have repeatedly called
                attention to these newer ideas of play and recreation, and I am indebted to their
                numerous writings for many of the ideas expressed in this connection; particularly
                to Professor Patrick, whose illuminating contribution on play and recreation in The Popular Science Monthly has been so freely drawn upon in the
                writing of the latter part of this chapter.

              Everything which has such a vital and absorbing interest for the boy has had at one
                time in our racial history an actual life and death interest for mankind.

              Take, for instance, the jack-knife. How many knives has your boy had and lost and
                what rich joy there is in every new one! We see how the practice and preparation
                theory of play fails here. The 
                
                  Fig. 11. Young and Old at Play
                
                
                 knife has no significance in society now. It has
                degenerated to mere finger-nail purposes. But at one time it meant life in defence
                and food in offence. Your boy's supreme interest in the knife is a latent memory of
                those ancient days. Those who could use the knife and use it well, survived and
                transmitted this trait to their offspring.

              The same could be said of the sling, the bow and arrow, and of sports like boxing,
                fencing, fishing, the "camping out" craze, etc.

              Consider the fascination of fishing. This is not a practice and preparation for the
                real life of today, but a reverberation of racial activities.

              In a summer resort where the writer was a visitor the past summer, day after day
                the whole male population of the hotel resorted to the fishing grounds. They paid
                two dollars and a half a day for a guide, seven dollars a day for a motor-boat, and
                a cent and a half apiece for worms. Surely a stranger uninitiated into our habits of
                thought would have been amazed to see these returning fishermen at night
                indifferently handing over their catch to the guide. It was the fishing they
                desired, not the fish, and yet great was their woe when one large fish was lost in
                the act of landing.

              Look at the long line of waiting, patient fishermen and women who line Chicago's
                lake front in every park on Sundays and holidays. It is estimated by the New York
                Times that on Sundays and holidays when the weather is fine, 25,000 people in New
                York City go fishing at a minimum cost of one dollar each, and of these no doubt,
                more than 95 per cent go for fun and not for the fish. (Fig. 11.) At some stage in the history of human development fishing
                was without doubt a general means of subsistence. Those who could catch fish
                survived and handed down this instinct.
            

            
              BASEBALL AND FOOTBALL

              If we accept this newer theory that the play of the child is the spontaneous and
                instinctive expression of the former and ancient racial pursuits of his ancestors,
                then we can come to understand something about the great popularity of baseball and
                football. In this respect the daily press is a pretty good  way of judging the popular interest in these outdoor sports. The morning
                of this writing I examined a dozen copies of metropolitan dailies, and I found from
                two to three columns given to politics, a column or two to a murder or suicide, and
                even in the crisis of a threatened war only five or six columns were devoted to the
                news of the situation; but in these same papers and at this same time, I found from
                twelve to twenty-five columns of matter devoted to baseball, football, horse-racing,
                yachting, golf, and prize-fighting; far more space devoted to sports than to the
                combined interests of science, art, literature, religion, and politics.

              The ability to throw a stone with power, accuracy, and speed was at one time in our
                early civilization an important factor in determining the survival of the fittest.
                Among our early and barbarous ancestors, the man who could pick up a club and strike
                with accuracy-- hit with certainty and power-- was the man best fitted to survive in
                the brutal struggles of those early days. He not only could better defend his
                family, but was also better fitted for killing game and overcoming his enemies. And
                so the ability to run with speed and dodge with cunning-- the fleetness of foot and
                endurance of chase-- were all vital factors in the make-up of our ancestors who
                survived and transmitted these characteristic instincts and tendencies to us, their
                progeny. And today, when we let go the mental tension, relax, we find ourselves
                taking to these same primitive occupations as our favorite sport-- just like and for
                the same reasons-- that a duck takes to water.

              And so in baseball we have a game which combines three of the most deep-seated and
                ancestral racial instincts: the instinct to throw straight, to run fast, and to
                strike hard, not to mention the love of conquest. During long periods of the
                ancestral life-history of our race, survival has come to him who could throw the
                straightest, run the swiftest, and strike the hardest. To throw a stone at something
                is almost second nature for a boy; throwing is a universal instinct. Now we must
                admit that throwing, batting, and running are no longer of any practical use in this
                civilized and advanced age of art, science, and commerce; but they were
                qualifications of life and 
                
                  Fig. 12. He is a Descendant of Those Men who Could Throw
                    Straight, Hit Hard, and Run Fast
                
                
                 death significance in by-gone ages. The baseball game
                revives these old race attitudes and brings a thrill of joy and cherished racial
                memory to both the participants and spectators. Any one who has ever held a bat in
                hand and assumed the expectant attitude of the batter knows the peculiar thrill of
                his distant ancestors, who in just that attitude, waited for an approaching enemy
                and beat down his foe with a real war club, whether his antagonist was man or beast,
                and those who assumed the best position, struck hardest, and aimed most accurately,
                survived and transmitted that instinct to their off-spring-- and baseball is the
                modernized and civilized expression of these ancient racial characteristics. The
                next ball game you attend take notice of the star batter as he takes his place at
                the plate. See him stand there, bat in hand, every muscle tense, ready to strike,
                dodge, jump, or run on a moment's notice, bat in striking position, oscillating in
                expectancy while waiting for the ball! (Fig. 12.) And then the climax-- that vicious and all-powerful
                strike, the home run, and the vociferous cheering and wild enthusiasm of the vast
                throng of spectators in the grand-stand who yell themselves hoarse as did their
                ancestors in olden times when the gladiator had vanquished the beast or killed the
                bull in the ancient arena!

              This instinct to throw belongs largely to boys, scarcely appearing in the case of
                girls. The awkward throw of girls, like the left arm throw of boys, is well known.
                The plays of the little girl reveal a different set of instincts recalling the
                habits of primitive woman, and so we find that "We are the descendants of those men
                who could throw, and those women who loved children."

              Football excites still greater enthusiasm than baseball because it reinstates and
                recalls still more vividly those still more primitive forms of ancestral activity.
                Here we have the face to face opposition of two trained and able hostile forces, the
                rude and primitive physical shock of the onslaught, the barbarous scramble, the
                cruel tackle, the uncivilized scrimmage, the savage melee, the fierce charges and
                collisions, the tackling, dodging, and the lively chases for goal, as for ancient
                cave of safety-- all are a vivid reenactment of the life struggles of  the race in by-gone days. (Fig. 13.) It is all a play-picture of far-away realities, and the
                psychology of our whole play tendency is comprehended in the fact that our
                instinctive pursuits of mind and body unfailingly choose to discharge along the
                channels of the least psychic resistance, and, therefore, our instinctive
                play-efforts are productive of little or no real fatigue, because they operate along
                and over long established and well initiated nerve paths in the brain, calling into
                play only those nerve actions and emotions to which our race has long been
                accustomed.
            

            
              THE PSYCHOLOGY OF RELAXATION

              Professor Patrick has so splendidly and concisely stated my own views of the
                psychology and physiology of fatigue and relaxation, that I cannot do better than to
                quote. 
                  If it could be shown that the child passes through the various stages of
                    development that the race passed through, this would throw no light on the
                    sports of men. Nor again does this theory explain the delight which children
                    take in their play nor does it make clear the distinction between work and play.
                    Why does a boy become so quickly fatigued hoeing in the garden or raking leaves
                    when his physical endurance is beyond belief when hunting, fishing, or playing
                    football? It is commonly assumed that in the former case the fatigue is
                    fictitious, but this is not the case, as the results of forced child labor
                    always show.
                  It is evident that progress in civilization has depended upon the development
                    of certain peculiar forms of mental activity which were relatively undeveloped
                    in primitive man. If it be true that these forms of mental activity are
                    relatively undeveloped in the child and when developed in the adult are most
                    susceptible to fatigue, we have at once the key to the whole problem of sport
                    and play, explaining why the plays of children and the sports of men take the
                    form of primitive human activities.
                  Even in the lower forms of animal life this tendency appears a the persistent
                    striving of the organism toward an end, that end being usually some changed
                    relation which shall subserve the life purposes of the individual. This striving
                    has for its subjective correlate a state which we may characterize as tension,
                    strain, stress, or effort. It is this aspect of human behavior that constitutes
                    work and distinguishes it from play. It is the power to hold oneself to a 
                    
                      Fig. 13. A revival of Ancient Tribal Struggles
                    
                    
                     given task for the sake of a given end, to carry
                    on an occupation, even though it may have ceased to be interesting, for the sake
                    of some end to be gained other than the activity itself. This is work, and it
                    involves stress, strain, tension, effort, endeavor, concentration, application,
                    and inhibition, and is unconditionally the ground of progress. It is precisely
                    the lack of this capacity for sustained and persevering effort that
                    characterizes all uncivilized races.
                  Play is just the opposite and includes all activities in which the stress and
                    strain are absent. Play is self-developing and supplies its own incentive. It is
                    spontaneous and pleasant because of the sense of ease which accompanies it.
                    Clearly play in this sense is something broader and more inclusive than those
                    activities which we usually embrace under the term. It includes not merely
                    children's plays and grown-ups' sports, not only hunting, fishing, boating,
                    yachting, motoring, flying, and all kinds of outing, not merely games and races
                    and spectacles and tournaments and fairs and expositions, but also the theater,
                    and the opera, the enjoyment of music and painting and poetry, our daily paper
                    and our magazines and our novels and our romances, and for that matter, many
                    forms of socalled work in which the interest is self-developing, such, for
                    instance, as gardening for pleasure. Relaxation or recreation would be perhaps
                    more fitting terms to designate this large class of human activities.
                
            

            
              INSTINCTIVE OR RACIAL JOY

              So we understand why adult sport resembles the activities of primitive man. The
                older, the more basal, the more primitive, so to speak, the brain centers used in
                our hours of relaxation, the more complete our rest and enjoyment. Just in
                proportion as the sport is primitive, so much greater is the sweet peace which it
                seems to bring to the troubled soul, simply because it involves more primitive brain
                tracks and affords greater release from the strenuous life. So while we find one
                hundred and fifty spectators at an inter-collegiate debate, we find five thousand at
                an automobile race, ten thousand at a baseball game, twenty thousand at a great
                football game, thirty thousand at a prize fight, and three hundred thousand at an
                ancient gladiatorial show. The nervous tracts which function in such activities as
                hunting and fishing and swimming and boating and camping and in football and
                baseball and golf and polo, in horse racing and 
                bull-fighting, are deep worn, pervious and easy. During countless centuries the
                nerve currents have flowed through these channels. Witnessing these rude contests--
                pictures of former ages, or taking part in these deep-seated, instinctive actions,
                brings sweet rest and refreshment. "The racially old is seized by the individual
                with ease and joy."

              The game of golf has a peculiar restorative power surpassing all medical or other
                therapeutic arts. We may be physically and mentally weary from a morning's work.
                Despite the strenuous physical exertion of an afternoon at golf, our fatigue is
                lessened, not increased. Fresh air does not explain it. It is a return to the
                primitive outdoor life. We stride over hill and through ravine; we stumble into
                ditches; we carry a club and strike viciously at the balls; we follow the ball with
                the eye and search for it in the grass as our forefathers searched for their arrows
                and missiles; we use our legs and our arms; we let the nerve currents course through
                the more ancient channels; we revel unconsciously in latent memories and old race
                habits and come back to our work rested, renewed, and refreshed.
            

            
              UNWHOLESOME PLAY SUBSTITUTES

              As the strenuous life increases in city and country, there is an increased demand
                for relaxation, whether in the form of baseball or football, horse-racing, gambling,
                automobile craze, auction-bridge craze, moving-picture craze, or tango-dancing
                craze. These are all methods of escape from the clutch of the modern strenuous life,
                exhibited in all countries, but most noticeably in America; for whatever it is that
                is driving the human race forward in the path of progress so rapidly and
                relentlessly, seems to have gripped the Anglo-Saxon people particularly hard.

              Even these many forms of relaxation are not sufficient to relieve the overwrought
                brain centers, and so in ever-increasing amounts we have recourse to artificial
                means of relaxation through narcotics, such as alcohol, tobacco and other drugs.
                Alcohol by its slight paralysis of the higher and later developed brain centers,
                accomplishes artificially what is effected naturally 
                by play and sport, that is, it liberates the older, freer life of the emotions and
                the more primitive impulses.

              Thus, from this point of view, the difficulties in regard to children's play
                disappear.

              The reason why children play and why their plays take reversionary forms is now
                evident. The higher brain centers, those making work possible, are not developed. If
                a child does anything, he must play, i.e., his activity must take the form
                prescribed by the brain centers already developed, and these are the old racial
                tracks. He is equipped with a nervous mechanism adequate for old racial activities
                and for the most part with these only.

              The little girl hugging and nursing her doll is not giving expression to an
                instinct whose purpose is to prepare her for later maternal duties. She is simply
                doing what her mother and her grandmothers have done since the foundation of the
                world. For, when the ancient cave man stood without, club in hand and rock missiles
                near, ready for the savage attack-- ready for the test of brute force which should
                determine the fate of his primitive family-- the woman of those pre-civilized days
                was crouching in a dark corner of that cave or hut dwelling, clinging tightly to the
                child, and figuring out the next best move to make in case the physical prowess of
                their natural defender should fail in the approaching battle at the threshold of
                their primitive abode. And if our primitive mothers had not thus planned, thought,
                loved, and clung to their babies, then the little girl of today who is thus
                attracted by and devoted to her dolls, would never have been born. The child does
                not play because of surplus energy, for under normal conditions all his energy is
                expended in play; the child is a playing animal.
            

            
              THE NEW ERA

              Possibly the objection may be made that in this. account of children's play, our
                attention has been directed too much to the plays of boys and that the plays of
                girls have been disregarded. An important distinction arises here to which in this
                present writing only passing reference can be made. The life of stress and effort
                and self-direction of which play is the antithesis is essentially masculine.

              

              Man represents the centrifugal motive; he stands for movement, change, variety,
                adaptation; for activity, tension and effort. Woman represents the centripetal
                motive; she stands for passivity, permanence, stability, repose, relaxation, and
                rest. She has greater composure and harmony. She has therefore less need of the
                release afforded by primitive forms of activity. Girls, of course, play and their
                plays follow the same laws as those of boys, but yet in less marked degree, while
                adult sports are for the most part masculine sports. Just at present what we call
                civilization is tending in the direction of the masculine motive-- to variation,
                adaptation, change, effort, stress, and work. That it is producing anything
                remarkable, except in invention and the mechanic arts, is doubtful.

              The really great things of the world have been produced not with great effort, but
                with great ease. The magnificent productions of the age of Pericles in architecture,
                sculpture, painting, and literature seems to have been more like the over-flowing of
                a full vessel than like the laborious achievements of hard work. But the present age
                is the age of great effort, the age of work, and hence our growing demand for more
                relaxation and rest.
            

            
              EDUCATIONAL VALUE OF PLAY

              The educational application of this theory of play, presents less difficulties than
                the older theories. It is not necessary that the child should live through, live
                out, any series of savage stages. It is merely necessary that he should be kept
                active with the mental and physical equipment that he has, that work should not be
                too early imposed upon him and that his plays should be so organized and supervised
                that, while retaining the elementary form of his instinctive responses, they may be
                physically, morally, and socially harmless. For instance, a boy, if he is a boy,
                must throw. It is just a question of whether he shall throw stones at a cat, at a
                street car, at little children, or whether he shall throw a curved ball to the
                catcher. The latter is harmless, the former dangerous. Again, a boy's instinct of
                rivalry is very strong. He must do something daring, get ahead of some one, as those
                of his ancestors who survived did before him. If a proper playground is provided,
                all these things may be done without injury to society. Otherwise his instinct  is expended in an effort to "steal on Casey's beat and
                get away with it." Again, at a certain age the dancing instinct is developed, and if
                the children must be taught dancing then let them be taught the graceful and
                healthful folk dances.

              In our modern cities supervised play has become necessary for social order, for the
                reason that the old conditions of spontaneous, healthful play have been taken away.
                Says Luther Burbank: 
                  Every child should have mud pies, grasshoppers, water-bugs, tadpoles, frogs,
                    mud turtles, elderberries, wild strawberries, acorns, chestnuts, trees to climb,
                    brooks to wade in, water lilies, woodchucks, bats, bees, butterflies, various
                    animals to pet, hay fields, pine cones, rocks to roll, sand, snakes,
                    huckleberries, and hornets; and any child who has been deprived of these has
                    been deprived of the best part of his education.
                

              As regards adults, the social applications of the theory are equally obvious. There
                must be large periods of relaxation from the high tension life of today. If they are
                not provided in the form of healthful and harmless sports, there will be
                irritability, abnormal fatigue and anti-social outbreaks. There will be
                tango-dancing crazes and auction-bridge crazes and there will be ever-increasing
                resort to the temporary, harmonizing effect of alcohol, tobacco, and coffee, not to
                mention waves of vice and crime and epidemics of immorality.
            

            
              THE SOCIAL FUNCTION OF PLAY

              Even in the life of the family the harmonizing influence of games is seen. The
                friction sometimes exhibited among its members, in some cases taking the extreme
                form of nagging, wrangling, and quarreling, is no doubt due in large part to the
                fatigue of the higher brain centers. In such cases it will often be found that
                participation in some simple game, particularly an outdoor game, such as golf,
                tennis, or even croquet, will completely relieve the situation, bringing sympathy,
                harmony and peace. In society, the larger family, the same effect must follow upon
                the larger participation in healthful sports. It is sometimes a matter of surprise
                to us in periods of national prosperity when wages are good and work obtainable,
                that  unrest increases, together with crime and
                insanity. It may be because the high tension with its consequent fatigue is not
                relieved. What is needed is less work and worry and more healthful relaxation. Worry
                is a good example of the high-tension life that is a part of our civilization. It is
                very wearing, for the reason that it brings constant strain upon delicate and
                recently developed brain centers and makes relaxation imperative.

              If we have correctly described the theory of play and the psychology of relaxation
                and their relations to the conditions of our modern life, it will be evident at once
                that the need will not be supplied merely by providing more playgrounds for children
                and more holidays and sports for grown-ups, vital as these are. The difficulty goes
                deeper and calls for emphasis of still other forms of relaxation than play and
                sport. There are many of these, such, for instance, as music, which is one of the
                best. An ever-ready and convenient form of relaxation is the modern novel, in which
                the attention is sustained objectively as in the chase or the drama, but its value
                as relaxation is greatly less than in the old and social story-telling. Society in
                all its forms is a healthful means of relaxation. All valuable games and sports are
                social and the mere mingling with our fellows lowers the mental stress and tension.
                Primitive man was wholly social and survived only in cooperative groups.
            

            
              THE RELAXATION OF RELIGION

              Religion may be mentioned finally as a mode of relaxation of the highest value.
                Religion is letting go the stress and tension of the individual and resigning
                oneself to an outside power, whether that power be God or the church. The functions
                of religion in this aspect is that of a sustainer, and religion loses its usefulness
                wholly if the individual, as is often the case, feels it his duty to sustain his
                religion. His religion must sustain him. Clubs, societies, fraternities of all
                kinds, exercise a similar function. The great charm of all fraternal societies is
                that they relieve the stress, the burden, the tension of the individual and shift
                the responsibility upon the society as a whole. The society is back of him, to some
                extent will do  his thinking for him, decide moral
                questions for him, relieve his worry.

              Just at present we are hearing it said that our country has gone "amusement mad."
                Well, our manner of life has been very strenuous. The tension has been high.
                Something was bound to happen. Other forms of relaxation have failed us just when we
                needed them most-- particularly the diversion of art, and the strength and comfort
                of religion.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Nervous patients appear to be under a continual nervous lash; the
                  vital powers are driven at a ruinous pace while the nervous energies are
                  dissipated in a lavish and extravagant manner.

                 Outbursts of acute anger are the culmination of nervous irritation and
                  a lack of self-control.

                 The fidgety state is sooner or later followed by the fatigue state,
                  and this is nature's plan to prevent the nerves "snapping" and "boilers
                  bursting."

                 There is something decidedly wrong with one's nerves when everybody is
                  constantly "getting on them."

                 Do not unduly resist your fatigue, or make a big fuss over your tired
                  feelings.

                 Much of the excitement, hurly-burly, and rush of our everyday life is
                  to no practical purpose whatever. Learn to make haste calmly.

                 We need more of the play spirit of the child who can run about and
                  romp all day without getting unnaturally fatigued.

                 We need to re-learn the art of relaxation. It is a doctrine easy to
                  preach but hard to practice.

                 Practice letting go of yourself when lying down and on retiring; fully
                  relax the muscles and relieve the nerves.

                 More good to the nerves is often accomplished by relaxation and
                  surrender than by resistance and fighting.

                 The only way some nervous patients can ever relax is to "go back to
                  play"; go back to simple outdoor living with its games and recreation.

                 Both the modern recreational craze and the increased use of narcotics
                  and liquors are the result of our high tension-- high pressure living.

                 Playgrounds, outdoor sports, dancing, and athletics are all
                  recreational efforts aimed at relaxation.

                 The play of the modern child is an unconscious reverting to the more
                  serious and sober pursuits of our primitive ancestors.


                

                 The game of hide and seek, the instinct for tents and "shanties," is
                  but an echo of the racial living habits of former ages.

                 The boy's love for running and racing, and the adult speed mania are
                  but reminders of an age when life itself so often depended upon fleetness.

                 Tag, pull-away, and black man are but mimic memories of the day when
                  such activities constituted the sober pursuits of our ancestors.

                 The boy's fondness for the jack-knife, and the adult fascination for
                  fishing are but memory reverberations of old racial activities.

                 The popularity of baseball consists in the fact that it revives in
                  our experience the three most deep-seated racial instincts-- straight throwing,
                  fast running, and hard hitting.

                 The popularity of football is due to the fact that it presents a more
                  or less savage face to face combat between two trained and hostile forces.

                 All of our modern field sports and athletic pastimes are but
                  play-pictures of far-away and distant ancestral realities.

                 Because our recreation plays revert to ancestral types of activity,
                  they are therefore accompanied by a minimum of nervous fatigue. They operate over
                  nervous tracks long used and well established.

                 Play includes all those activities in which stress and strain are
                  absent-- which are spontaneous and self-developing in interest, supplying their
                  own incentive.

                 The older, the more basal, the more primitive the brain centers used
                  in our hours of relaxation, the more complete our rest, relaxation, and
                  enjoyment.

                 Tennis, golf, and other outdoor sports enable us, unconsciously, to
                  revel in latent memories of old racial habits; and thus we are able to come back
                  to our work rested, renewed, and refreshed.

                 Unwholesome substitutes for outdoor recreation are gambling, bridge,
                  moving pictures, tango-dancing, not to mention waves of vice and crime and
                  epidemics of immorality.

                 When these indoor substitutes fail, the populace have recourse to
                  alcohol and other drug stimulants and narcotics.

                 The little girl playing with her doll is not in preparation for
                  future maternal duties, but is instinctively reverting to the racial practices of
                  her ancestors.

                 Man represents the centrifugal motive in society-- activity, variety
                  and change; woman represents the centripetal motive-- stability, repose, and
                  rest.

                 For educational purposes play must be organized so as to  retain its recreational value, while eliminating its
                  undesirable and unsocial elements.

                 This strenuous age demands not only more playgrounds, more outdoor
                  sports, but also a revived interest in music, art, literature, and other
                  recreational and intellectual pursuits.

                 Of all relaxing agencies, religion is probably of highest value; that
                  is, provided it sustains you instead of you having to sustain your
                  religion.

              
            
          

          
            

            CHAPTER XXX THE PHYSICAL TREATMENT OF THE
              NEURASTHENIC STATES*

            THE problem of treating the nervous patient is not one merely of
              improving the physical organism and training the mental powers. It is not merely a
              matter of improving digestion, regulating exercise, and normalizing the other physical
              functions in conjunction with the work of re-training the mental faculties. In its
              largest sense, the treatment and management of the various nervous states, embraces
              the problem of teaching the patient how to adjust himself to modern society, how to
              relate himself acceptably and efficiently to the world at large. It is the
              neurasthenic character that must be attacked, it is the inherited tendency and
              cultivated principle of pusillanimity that must be combated and overcome.

            However valuable the physical therapeutic auxiliaries of treatment and changed
              environment, nevertheless, those who depend upon these for a cure will certainly fail.
              Both the physician and the patient need to be warned against putting undue dependence
              upon the measures which are recommended in this chapter. They are valuable for certain
              purposes and ends, but too much must not be expected of these physical procedures,
              which are designed only to correct associated abnormal functional behavior in the
              physical organism.

            
              GOING AWAY FROM HOME

              In many cases of nervous breakdown and severe nervousness, it is absolutely
                necessary for the patient, man or woman, to 
                *As touching personal
                  hygiene, but the briefest outline can be attempted in this chapter. For a fuller
                  discussion of these subjects the reader is referred to the author's work, The Science of Living, or the Art of Keeping Well.
                
                
                  Fig. 14 The Modern Eliminating Bath
                
                
                 get away from home for a while. Sometimes this is
                made necessary in order to avoid some trivial irritation or other unwholesome
                influence that may be connected with the family circle, the home life, the business
                relations, etc. There may be incompatibility of temperament at home which, the
                nervous patient is not strong enough to rise above. We often find that even a letter
                from home is enough to bring on a hysterical crying spell, followed by severe
                headache. Neurasthenics sometimes feel that there is no place like home-- and that
                is just the reason they want to go away for awhile. On the other hand, if the
                patient, even though he remains at home, can have his energies enlisted in some
                altruistic enterprise, he is sometimes able to overcome these handicaps of the home
                environment.

              Dubois has well said: 
                  The time has now come to remind sufferers that the lending of a helping hand to
                    others who are similarly afflicted is one of the most splendid and powerful aids
                    to self-discipline imaginable. There are in every large community hundreds of
                    nervously exhausted individuals into whose hands books like this never come; and
                    even if they did, they would mean absolutely nothing to them. These are the
                    people-- wretched mothers of numerous broods, gaunt seamstresses, ill-favored
                    specimens of both sexes from sweatshop and factory, shabby gentlefolk and a
                    heterogeneous collection of human flotsam and jetsam-- who rub elbows in the
                    ante-rooms of clinics for nervous diseases, patiently waiting for what? A word
                    of encouragement, instruction in diet and hygiene which, under existing
                    circumstances, they are hopelessly unable to follow, and a prescription for
                    medicine whose purchase often involves the expenditure of a whole day's
                    earnings. To such as these is directed the attention of every reader whose
                    ambition is, in the words of Pope, "to endow a college or a cat."
                
            

            
              NEURASTHENIC HEADACHES

              One of the commonest causes of recurrent and self-limited headaches is fatigue,
                whether bodily, mental, or emotional. This was long an apparent stumbling-block in
                the way of the poison theory of headache, but now it is one of its best
                illustrations. Physiologists years ago discovered that what produced not  merely the sensation but also the fact of fatigue, or
                tiredness, was the accumulation in the muscles or nerves of the waste products of
                their own activities. Simply washing these out with a salt solution would start the
                utterly fatigued muscle contracting again, without any fresh nourishment or even a
                period for rest. It has become an axiom with physiologists that fatigue is simply a
                form of self-poisoning, or, as they sonorously phrase it, autointoxication. One of
                the reasons why we are so easily fatigued when we are already ill, or, as we say,
                "out of sorts," is that our tissues are already so saturated with waste-products or
                other poisons that the slightest addition of the fatigue poisons is enough to
                overwhelm them. This also explains why our pet variety of headache, which we may
                have clearly recognized to be due to overwork or overstrain of some sort, whether
                with eye, brain, or muscles, is so much more easily brought on by such comparatively
                small amounts of overexertion whenever we are already below par and out of sorts.
                People who are "born tired," who are neurasthenic and easily fatigued and "ached,"
                are probably in a chronic state of self-poisoning due to some defect in their
                body-chemistry. Further, the somewhat greater frequency and acuteness of headache in
                brain-workers - although the difference between them and muscle workers in this
                regard has been greatly exaggerated-- is probably due in part to the greater
                sensitiveness of their nerves; but more so to the curious fact, discovered in
                careful experiments upon the nervous system, that the fatigue products of the nerve
                cells are the deadliest and most powerful poisons produced in the human body. Hence
                some brain workers can work only a few half-hours a day, or even minutes at a time;
                for instance, Darwin, Spencer, and Descartes.
            

            
              TREATMENT OF HEADACHES

              A method which may sometimes be used advantageously in treating these headaches is
                as follows: A rubber bag filled with hot water and covered with a moist flannel, or
                a fomentation, is applied to the upper and back part of the neck, while a soft
                cheese-cloth compress wrung out of cool or very cold water is applied to the face
                and the top of the head. The effect 
                
                  Fig 15. Hydrotherapy for Nervous Disorders
                
                
                 of the compress in relieving cerebral congestion is
                greatly increased by the application of the ice compress or ice-bag to the front of
                the neck, whereby the blood-supply of the brain is lessened by contraction of the
                carotid arteries.

              The combination of heat and cold to the head in this manner renders it possible to
                make applications of heat to the head for a much longer time than could otherwise be
                tolerated, the cold antidoting any ill effect which might be produced by the heat,
                while encouraging the good effects of the application. The author has made use of
                this application for many years as a means of relieving certain forms of
                neurasthenic headache. It is exceedingly useful also in so-called nervous headache
                accompanied by marked congestion of the brain.
            

            
              HYDROTHERAPY

              It is a very easy matter for the neurasthenic to overbathe. Sea voyages are often
                highly beneficial, and the diversion of the seashore and the fresh salt air are good
                for the nervous patient, but remaining in the ocean water too long only serves to
                exhaust the reactionary powers of the patient and does more harm than good. It would
                have been better to have had a good salt bath or a salt rub at home.

              The electric light bath probably affords the best known means for encouraging
                elimination without unduly exhausting the patient by heat as is so likely in the
                Turkish or Russian baths. (Fig. 14.) All of
                these vigorous tonic or moderately long eliminating baths should be followed by
                proper cool finishing treatment, massage, and an hour's quiet rest. (Fig. 15.)

              Other valuable baths in the numerous stages of the various nervous states may be
                described as follows: 
                  
                    In low blood-pressure, when there is great lethargy and
                      extreme fatigue, it will be found that the ice bag to the heart (fifteen
                      minutes at a time) by stimulating and invigorating that organ, raises the
                      blood-pressure, and in measure relieves the exhaustion. Cold baths (moderately
                      long) by contracting the blood-vessels of the skin, drive the blood to the
                      internal organs, and thus raise the blood-pressure, and relieve the feelings
                      of fatigue and extreme weariness. Copious water-drinking also  temporarily elevates the blood-pressure and so
                      produces the same effects.
                  

                  
                    In high tension and elevated blood-pressure-- the
                      preneurasthenic state-- the following baths will be found very helpful:
                    The neutral bath. This bath lowers pressure by dilating the vessels of the
                      skin and quieting the heart. Try it some time when you are restless, nervous,
                      fretful, sleepless, head throbbing-- take a neutral full bath, from 95 to 98
                      F.
                    The cold bath. The cold bath, likewise, by the vigorous reaction that follows
                      it, lowers the blood-pressure. Warm baths must be continued for a number of
                      minutes in order to lower the blood-pressure, and the neutral bath from
                      fifteen to forty-five minutes, but cold baths must be short, in order to lower
                      the blood-pressure. The salt bath or salt glow is doubly useful.
                    Dry or moist heat. The sun bath is of great value in relieving high-pressure,
                      if properly taken (with cold cloths to the head) as it not only diverts blood
                      to the skin, but the "sunburn" is a sort of physiological inflammation that
                      causes the blood to circulate freely in the skin for days following exposure
                      to the sun's rays. Keeping the skin warm helps in lowering blood-pressure. Hot
                      fomentations greatly dilate the blood-vessels of the skin, and so directly
                      tend to relieve the blood tension.
                    The heating compress has a desirable effect in lowering blood-pressure, and
                      consists of several thicknesses of cheese-cloth wrung out of cold water; apply
                      to the skin and cover with oilcloth, rubber sheeting, or mackintosh, and then
                      wrap dry flannels around the whole so securely that no evaporation can take
                      place. This procedure is of great value when applied to the abdomen in portal
                      congestion and chronic constipation.
                  
                
            

            
              MASSAGE AND ELECTRICITY

              Massage and manual Swedish movements are probably the most universally used of all
                physical therapeutic methods in the treatment of the nervous states. (Fig. 16.) We employ light muscular massage even in the
                "rest cure;" and sometimes, in neurasthenia and psychasthenia, we begin light
                massage treatments three times a week long before the patient is in 
                
                  Fig. 16. Typical Scenes in Massage
                
                
                 condition to react to either electrical or hydriatic
                treatments. At first this massage is carried on as a passive exercise, and, later,
                manual Swedish movements are added in which the patient cooperates with the nurse in
                the matter of offering slight resistance, which is increased from week to week until
                the patient shows evidence of being greatly strengthened. And while the patient is
                receiving this treatment, the well-trained nurse is engaged in giving helpful and
                up-lifting suggestions by encouraging the patient along in the greater struggle
                toward mental mastery and nerve control.

              In the case of feeble patients, bedridden patients, who cannot stand vigorous
                exercise, massage and cold friction are very useful. The cold mitten friction, in
                which a rough mohair mit or Turkish cloth is dipped in ice water and rubbed over one
                part of the body at a time, is excellent for these cases. (See Fig. 17.) Dry friction is also useful. Deep muscle
                massage enormously increases the amount of blood circulating through the tissues,
                and in this way relieves the general nervous tension and fatigue feelings.

              Deep massage of the abdomen, rolling a small cannon ball over the abdomen when
                lying down, or a bandage applied snugly to the abdomen, all tend to raise
                blood-pressure and thus indirectly to relieve neurasthenic fatigue. Vibration is
                also valuable.

              Electricity is valuable in the treatment of neurasthenia as noted elsewhere,
                especially the high frequency currents when taken by the method known as
                autocondensation; and it should be noted that the more faith the patient has in
                these electrical treatments, the more good he seems to derive from
                electro-therapeutic procedures.
            

            
              PHYSICAL EXERCISE

              Neurasthenics need to set their hands to work. Wood-carving, basket-weaving,
                carpet-weaving, book-binding, pottery, brass-hammering, and all the other arts and
                crafts, which are the fad in some circles today, are useful remedies for the
                neurasthenic. Light employment occupying both hand and mind is one of the ideal
                treatments for the fastidious neurotic patient. It should be a comfort to these
                nervous patients to  know that it is not necessary to
                build up a pugilistic muscular system in order to get well; in fact, many nervous
                patients are greatly retarded in their recovery by the physical culture fads which
                lead them to over-do physically. A reasonable amount of open air exercise is
                desirable and will be found most beneficial when carried on along the lines of some
                recreational sport in which the patient has agreeable company. Long solitary cross
                country walks are not the best way for the nervous patient to get his outdoor
                exercise.

              Active physical exercise, to the point of gentle perspiration, brings a large
                amount of blood to the muscles. It dilates the vessels of the skin, producing a
                ruddy glow, the same as alcohol, only this dilation is even more permanent and is
                not followed by an undesirable reaction. Walking, riding, rowing, running, swimming,
                gymnasium work, and all forms of exercise, preferably those in the open air, with
                the clothing loose and free, are all most powerful agents in lowering
                blood-pressure, and should be intelligently and systematically utilized by all
                moderately high-pressure victims. Passive exercise always lowers the blood-pressure
                from the very beginning.
            

            
              "EURHYTHMICS"

              If it be true, as people of foreign climes often assert, that this is the most
                nerve-shattering country in the family of civilized nations, the gospel of
                Jaques-Dalcroze should be one for us. Neurasthenia, this innovator asserts, "is
                often nothing else than intellectual confusion produced by the inability of the
                nervous .system to obtain from the muscular system regular obedience to the order
                from the brain." The cure is a reestablishment of "rhythmic order," and this is the
                end and aim of his system of "Eurhythmics," which is defined as "mental training to
                secure perfect self-control so that the body obeys the dictates of the brain." This
                is obtained with the aid of music, and its efficacy is such that "all ugliness, even
                moral perversion itself," which is a violation of rhythmic order, is expected to
                yield to the stimulus.

              The mystery of this new system was revealed to Jaques-Dalcroze in a very simple
                way. He discovered that his students 
                
                  Fig. 17. Favorite Prescriptions for "Nerves"
                
                
                 of music were able to sing more accurately if they
                were allowed to beat time with their own hands. He saw, therefore, "an intimate
                relation between physical gesture and musical consciousness." So he invented a
                number of gesture-songs. Then he turned his attention to. rhythm itself, "realizing
                that it is the basis not only of all music, but of all art, and indeed of life
                itself." Music, however, is the one art that "most perfectly expresses every variety
                of rhythm, and which has the most intimate effect upon the physical sensations and
                spiritual emotions." Hence: 
                  By a series of physical movements and gestures which "realize" rhythm, the
                    pupils are led on to a stage when their subconsciousness is stored, as it were,
                    with rhythmic melody and images, so that at last they gain a joyous liberty of
                    physical expression and are able to express not only the greatest masterpiece of
                    music as translated through their own emotions, but also in rhythmical dances to
                    express all that is highest and most beautiful in their own individuality. The
                    whole object indeed of Eurhythmics is to draw out the individuality of the
                    pupils, to make them realize themselves, and to enable them to express their own
                    emotions in a rhythmic way. "It is a fact," says Jaques-Dalcroze, "that very
                    young children taught by my method invent quite naturally physical rhythms such
                    as would have occurred to very few professional musicians."
                

              It is only recently that the meaning of rhythm has been realized, though it has
                been dimly perceived throughout all the ages. It is the ordered movement that runs,
                as it were, through all beauty. It is to be found in the wind that chases sunlight
                and shadows across the fields, in the ebb and flow of the sea, in the revolution of
                the planets, in the sweeping lines of mountains and valleys, in the windings of
                rivers, in the heart-throbs of humanity, in all artistic expression, in the order of
                life itself. It has been most clearly revealed in music, which by rhythm may stir
                the highest emotions of men and women. Rhythm and vibration in music are the basis
                of life. Where there is rhythm there is order, and where rhythm is lacking, there is
                no order. Jaques-Dalcroze feels confident that a time will come when music will be
                applied in the broader general sense to education, physical as well as mental. He is
                working  along this principle, and his system of
                "Eurhythmics," which has many thousands of students in Germany, Scandinavia, Russia,
                Switzerland, England, and elsewhere, "is likely to revolutionize all methods of
                physical and mental culture. It is a training in the joyous liberty of the body and
                brain, governed by the deepest laws of beauty."
            

            
              WORK VERSUS REST

              I have largely given up the practice of the "rest cure" in the treatment of
                neurasthenia and the other nervous states, except in certain cases of hysteria; in
                fact, I have come to look upon isolation of these nervous patients as highly
                undesirable. My only exception to this rule is in the case of those neurotics who
                are really the victims of a nervous exhaustion-- a nervous breakdown-- who are
                already confined to the bed, and in these cases I seek to overcome this isolation
                with proper home or institutional treatment, and to surround them with cheerful and
                helpful nurses, employing proper feeding and massage in connection with this
                modified "rest cure" regime.

              And so I am averse to putting the average neurasthenic to bed and "stuffing" him
                while he indulges in the "rest cure." One has to do it occasionally with those
                patients whose neuromuscular tone is very low, but in all other cases, I am decidely
                opposed to it. I prefer to institute a regular regime of mental and physical
                training; a definite hour for a tonic bath, another for resistance exercise or
                massage, for reading or being read to, for taking food, and for resting, will help
                to occupy the time, and will also make the patient feel that every effort is being
                made to restore him to health. "Employment and hardships prevent melancholy," so
                said the wise Samuel Johnson. Neurasthenics take their symptoms and themselves most
                seriously, and sometimes it has an excellent moral effect upon them in the early
                days of treatment to pay considerable attention to their symptoms. Moreover, such
                symptomatic treatment is bound to relieve some of their miseries, and this relief
                can be used as an example of the way in which all their symptoms will disappear, and
                in this way their nervousness is gradually overcome. If you are able to instill into
                the neurasthene's soul the element of  hope, you have
                gone a long way toward making him well, even though he has got into the
                hypochondriacal stage of his disorder. Addison says, "Cheerfulness is the best
                promoter of health and is as friendly to the mind as to the body."
            

            
              NATURAL SLEEP

              When you are unable to sleep you must not work yourself up into a feeling of
                resentment and anger at your inability to slumber, but rather let the mind be
                concentrated upon the thought that you will rest in spite of your insomnia and quite
                often when the mind is taken off of sleep and concentrated upon rest, then sleep
                gracefully comes even though it resisted all your former efforts to woo and win
                it.

              Rest itself is an important essential in the treatment and cure of neurasthenia,
                and I have seen many a patient made worse from being advised to start out in his
                weakened condition on a trip to Europe or on some other taxing journey, when he
                would have been a great deal more benefited by staying at home and resting several
                hours a day on the front porch. Turn your vacation into a "nerve cure."

              One of the worst features of the neurasthene's rest is the sometimes terrorizing
                dreams which, to the patient, seem to keep up all night long, greatly disturbing the
                rest and sleep. They sometimes awake from these dreams with a palpitating heart,
                quaking limbs, while they are copiously bathed in perspiration; and all this is but
                a picture of the relaxed and disordered condition of the nervous system.

              It would be a good plan for these insomniacs to avoid all naps in the day time,
                even cat-naps. They had better try and keep themselves awake and in this way make
                for sounder sleep at night. The bedroom should be selected with a view to coolness
                and airiness. The bed should not be too soft and while the covers are warm, they
                should be light weight. In some cases if it can be conveniently arranged, outdoor
                sleeping will be found highly beneficial.

              In the winter, if the feet are cold at bedtime, hot foot baths should be taken just
                before retiring, or a hot water bottle can be placed at the foot of the bed. Some
                patients have found  it a good plan as a temporary
                relief from insomnia, to take a glass of hot milk or hot malted milk just on
                retiring.
            

            
              FOODS AND DIET

              We have two great classes of neurasthenics and nervous sufferers: first, those who
                are in apparent good physical health, well-nourished, in good flesh, and in some
                instances even over weight. These patients usually enjoy pretty fair digestion and
                complain very little of stomach trouble unless it may be occasionally gas on the
                bowels or more or less constipation. In behalf of this class we have need to offer
                very few suggestions in the matter of diet. They are usually blessed with a fair
                degree of appetite and are able to digest and assimilate their food with very little
                difficulty.

              The other class of neurasthenics is represented by the emaciated, run-down patient,
                suffering from digestive troubles, some real and some imaginary, and it is this
                class that calls upon us for advice in regard to foods, diet, and digestion. And
                right in this connection I want to lift a warning voice against the process of
                superalimentation, as commonly practiced on these patients. This senseless cramming
                and over-feeding of these nervously deranged and digestively disordered sufferers is
                highly injurious and wholly uncalled for. We should pay attention to the more
                fundamental duty of developing the patient's appetite and not merely resort to this
                therapeutic gormandizing which in many cases, does more harm than good.

              First and foremost let me warn all neurasthenics away from dietetic fads. The
                impressionable neurasthene is prone to take up with any and every faddish dietetic
                system which he may read of or hear about. The patient should learn that it is not
                necessary to discover some new patent food or other high-priced edible in order to
                be able to get over his digestive difficulties. The neurasthenic will do well to
                discontinue all these experiments in the dietetic realm and make up his mind to
                begin the early enjoyment and successful digestion of common, ordinary foods which
                are easily prepared and which can be obtained without great expense. The various
                exclusive  diet systems such as the meat diets, milk
                diets, raw food diets, even the exclusive vegetarian diets which deny us the use of
                milk and eggs the two most valuable articles of diet for a debilitated and dyspeptic
                neurasthenic-- should be discarded.
            

            
              CALORIES REQUIRED

              The important thing is that the nervous patient of this class should have an
                abundance of food, varied in character, and that it should be well-cooked, tastily
                served; and well masticated, but do not think about dietetics at meal time, keep the
                mind off your stomach.

              I find that many patients in their efforts at over-feeding have greatly over-taxed
                their nerve power and the capacity of their digestive system, and so they fare
                better and begin to gain in weight when the quantity of food taken is greatly
                reduced. I have my patients, after their meal is finished, make a note of what they
                have eaten and then make weekly reports to me. In this way I am able to judge the
                number of calories eaten each day, and often I find that patients who have been.
                suffering the terrors of nervous dyspepsia trying to assimilate 3000 or 4000
                calories a day begin to improve and put on flesh immediately their rations are
                reduced, say to 2000 calories in twenty-four hours.

              When I find it impossible to persuade the patient to take the amount of food
                required, or when after their diet has been reduced as first suggested, they
                complain of faintness and all-gone feelings in the stomach between meals, then I
                recommend that the regular diet be supplemented by egg-nogs made in the following
                manner: Beat up one whole egg, separately, add to a large glass of cold milk which
                has been sweetened with one or two teaspoonfuls of sugar and flavored with a few
                drops of vanilla. In this way a patient can take from 200 to 300 calories in
                addition to the regulation diet. These egg-nogs are very easy of digestion. Some
                patients prefer to have a little salt added to this egg-nog.
            

            
              STARCHES AND VEGETABLES

              Many of these patients find some difficulty in digesting starchy foods and should
                therefore have all articles of diet belonging  to this
                class well-cooked-- thoroughly baked. They will find it well to choose their starchy
                foods from the list including baked potatoes, well-toasted bread, the toasted flake
                breakfast foods, etc. Many of these patients are also greatly troubled with gas when
                they eat the coarser vegetables which are rich in cellulose, such as turnips,
                celery, carrots, cabbage, and radishes.

              The neurotic patient must be warned against getting fictitious and faddish
                disorders in his digestive tract. I have found that these patients have a great
                tendency to get imaginary cases of dilated stomach, enteroptosis, etc., not to
                mention displacement of the kidneys and other organs. And so from time to time we
                have various medical and surgical fads connected with both the cause and the cure of
                nervous dyspepsia.
            

            
              DIETETIC SUGGESTIONS

              The diet should include a liberal supply of cereals, fats, fruits, and vegetables,
                and a moderate quantity of nuts; milk and eggs in abundance, especially if the
                patient is eating a small amount of meat. Then there are the vegetables which afford
                variety to the diet, and in some cases give sufficient bulk to stimulate peristalsis
                in the intestinal canal, thus preventing constipation and all the ill effects which
                follow in its train. Potatoes are especially valuable because of the large amount of
                alkaline, salts they contain, which neutralize the acid secretions of the body.
                Neurasthenics in general would do well to make potatoes and green vegetables staple
                articles of diet. Cereals as well as meats tend to produce an acid state of the body
                fluids, a condition which aggravates insomnia and other morbid conditions from which
                nervous patients suffer.

              Buttermilk may be used to advantage by those persons with whom it does not
                disagree; particularly those buttermilks which are made from a vigorous culture of
                bacillus Bulgarius, a bacillus which thrives in the large intestine and tends to
                overcome those baccilli which, in the colon, bring about putrefaction and the
                consequent production of maleficent toxins.

              The diet for the nervous patient should also largely exclude spices and condiments
                of all kinds. Pepper, mustard, horse-radish, cayenne, capsicum and other similar
                substances derange  the digestion by over-irritating
                the delicate linings of the stomach and intestines.
            

            
              AUTOINTOXICATION

              The chief source of the poisons produced within the body is the colon. Here, unless
                intestinal activity is normal-- and it seldom is normal large masses of undigested
                foodstuffs collect and undergo putrefaction, giving off mischievous toxins that are
                absorbed into the circulation and carried to every part of the system, where they
                exercise a paralyzing influence on both muscle and nerve tissue. The very food we
                eat gives rise under certain conditions to the most malicious of poisons, while the
                nerves and muscular action give off waste products that are equally as toxic in
                character.

              The ideal diet, then, for the neurasthenic-- as, indeed, for any other person for
                that matter-- is one that will produce a minimum amount of poisons and that will so
                increase intestinal activity that foodstuffs will not collect and undergo
                putrefaction and give off toxins, which, when taken into the circulation, paralyze
                muscle and nerve tissues. Such a diet is not difficult to provide for one's self,
                for it is a simple diet based upon the known laws of dietetics coupled with the
                patient's experience.
            

            
              DAILY OUTLINE OF TREATMENT

              As a suggestion regarding the physical treatment of neurasthenia, I will cite the
                prescription I wrote today for one week's treatment of a typical neurasthene: 
                  First day: Fomentations to the spine and arc light to the
                    abdomen. Hot foot bath followed by cold mitten friction. High frequency spark to
                    the back of the neck for three minutes.

                  Second day: Arc light and ice rub to the liver for ten
                    minutes. Full Galvanic or Sinusoidal bath, followed by a light full
                    massage.

                  Third day: Local galvanism to abdomen and spine. Short
                    electric light bath followed by cold mitten friction. Vibrating chair for five
                    minutes.

                  Fourth day: Hot and cold (alternate) to the spine. Salt
                    glow and rose spray followed by centripetal oil rub.

                  

                  Fifth day: Neurasthenic spray flashes (hot, 128, 15-30
                    second; cold 60, 30-60 second, instantaneous alternations) five to ten minutes.
                    Full massage. High frequency electricity by autocondensation, ten
                    minutes.

                  Sixth day: Vibration to the spine with sinusoidal
                    electricity to the abdomen (short application). Electric light bath followed by
                    rose spray and an oil rub.
                
            

            
              MEDICAL AND SURGICAL FADS

              Greatly to be pitied is the nervous patient who falls into the hands of the
                physician or surgeon who has a fad. He is destined to be dieted, sweated,
                electrified, stretched, and rubbed, or to have his supposedly dislocated back bones
                forcibly put in place; or, if a woman, perhaps some trifling pelvic disorder will be
                treated and cauterized, or it may be that some other new and wondrous cure-all will
                be tried out upon them and fortunate indeed are the patients if, having suffered
                these many things from many physicians, they find themselves ready to begin
                scientific psychotherapy, no worse for their various adventures in the therapeutic
                and medical wonderland.

              In this connection I want to say a word about surgery and its relation to
                neurasthenics-- and since that is my chief professional pursuit, and not
                psychotherapy, I feel competent to speak with some degree of assurance-- and after
                years of observation I feel it my duty to express what I am about to say on this
                subject.

              There constantly come under my supervision nervous patients who believe they are in
                need of some major surgical operation. Some doctor at some time has dropped a
                careless word or hint regarding the possibility of tumors, cancers, floating
                kidneys, intestinal kinks, prolapsed stomach, or misplaced uterus. These ideas were
                immediately seized upon by the diseased mind of the patients, and all their miseries
                from that time on were assigned to these imaginary surgical conditions.

              Now, if a neurasthenic really needs a surgical operation, the surgeon should not
                hesitate to perform it, after making every effort to get the patient in the best
                possible physical condition for the ordeal. But I want emphatically to protest
                against this  tendency in some quarters to operate
                upon neurasthenics and psychopathics. The results, I have observed, are invariably
                disappointing and sometimes the patient develops a veritable surgical mania or
                operative obsession.

              Just the day before this writing there came into the office a woman who had had
                seven operations, five majors. The unfortunate soul looked as if she had been
                through the French and Indian war, and with tearful voice she insisted that I
                consent to the performance of an operation to stitch up a floating right kidney,
                which she was told she had nine years ago; and having had every other possible
                operation performed, every movable organ fixed and every fixed organ rendered
                movable, and all with no improvement at all in her nervous condition, she at last
                decided that all her miseries were due to this floating kidney, and that her future
                happiness depended upon undergoing another major operation and having it stitched
                up. And I may add in this connection that her kidney was no more a floating kidney
                than that which may be found in the case of half of the people who will read this
                book, and she would never have known she had a floating kidney if she had not been
                carelessly told that by the physician nine years ago.

              I think it was Dr. William Mayo I once heard say that if nothing could be done to
                stop surgeons from operating on neurasthenics, there should be some legal enactment
                made which would at least provide for, say three or four months in the summer, as a
                closed season for neurasthenics in which it would be against the law to operate on
                them, and thus they might at least be afforded the same protection extended to
                numerous birds and other wild game.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The problem of treating neurasthenia is not merely one of physical
                  recovery and mental training. It embraces the larger problem of teaching the
                  patient self-adjustment to modern society.

                 Some nervous patients do better when treated away from home. Others
                  need the very moral training that is developed by getting well "right on the
                  job."

                 The headaches of neurasthenics are not exclusively nervous  in their origin. There is usually an associated
                  element of autointoxication.

                 The fatigue products of the nerve cells are among the deadliest and
                  most powerful poisons produced in the human body.

                 Neurasthenic headaches are treated by hot foot baths and cold compress
                  to the head. Also by simultaneous hot and cold to the head.

                 It is a common mistake for neurasthenics to over-bathe, especially at
                  the seaside. When not overdone, baths are of the highest value.

                 In the treatment of neurasthenia, the electric light bath is
                  preferable to Turkish or Russian baths, and should be followed by appropriate
                  terminal procedures.

                 Following tonic baths, electricity, and massage, nervous patients
                  should rest quietly for an hour or more.

                 Special courses of baths and massage can be adapted to the
                  "low-pressure" of neurasthenics; as well as to the "high tension" of the
                  pre-neurasthenic state.

                 The neutral bath (97 F.) is the treatment par excellence for
                  insomnia.

                 Light massage, vibration, and manual Swedish movements are invaluable
                  in the treatment of the various nervous states.

                 Electricity in its various forms is a valuable remedial measure and
                  does most good to those patients who have greatest faith in it.

                 Neurasthenics do best when engaged in some light and regular
                  employment occupying both hands and mind.

                 Active physical outdoor exercise to the point of gentle perspiration
                  is a fine treatment for neurotics.

                 "Eurythmics" is a new system designated to develop harmony and
                  reciprocity between mind and muscle.

                 The "rest cure" is only used in certain cases of hysteria and in
                  bed-fast neurasthenics.

                 Neurasthenics will do well not to sleep during the day. Then on
                  retiring with a care-free mind they will enjoy sounder sleep.

                 Neurasthenics should keep busy, rest sufficiently, eat heartily, and
                  in the winter, keep warm.

                 Nervous patients should shun dietetic fads. They should have an
                  abundance of food, varied in character, well cooked, tastily served, and well
                  masticated.

                 Don't think or talk dietetics at meal time. Keep your mind off the
                  stomach when eating.

                 While milk and eggs are good foods for neurasthenics, we do not
                  approve of the modern indiscriminate stuffing fads.

                

                 Overeating may lead to autointoxication, and in this way greatly add
                  to the patient's disagreeable symptoms and sufferings.

                 Neurasthenics are especially in danger of being imposed upon by
                  various medical and surgical fads and fancies.

                 In times past many neurasthenics have had numerous useless or
                  unnecessary surgical operations performed upon them.

              
            
          

          
            
            CHAPTER XXXI STIMULANTS AND NARCOTICS

            WHATEVER may be our views as to the wholesomeness of the habitual
              or moderate use of stimulants and narcotics on the part of the people at large, there
              can be little or no debate attending the proposition that all persons of nervous
              tendency or neurotic taint should religiously abstain from the use of alcohol in all
              its forms as well as to eschew all other stimulating or narcotizing drugs. It is
              absolutely necessary in the beginning of treatment that all neurasthenics should at
              once stop the use of stimulants. Alcohol and tobacco I advise to be discontinued at
              once, while tea and coffee may be weakened down and some other warm drink substituted
              within a month's time.

            
              DANGER OF SELF-DRUGGING

              It has been my observation that the moral resolution and the will power exercised
                in discontinuing the use of these drugs has, in itself, often done much to lay the
                foundation for the successful treatment and final cure of neurasthenia; although, of
                course, the patients who suddenly discontinue these narcotics must expect to feel
                weakened and debilitated and good-for-nothing for a week or ten days, and it is
                during this time that I pay particular attention to giving such patients a
                thorough-going course of eliminating and tonic baths.

              We cannot too strongly condemn the practice of self-drugging, which so many
                neurasthenics carry on, especially the taking of coal tar products for headaches and
                sleeplessness. I refer to such common remedies as the bromides, acetanilid,
                antipyrin, phenacetin, sulphonal, and trional. These remedies can never remove the
                cause of trouble, and they are highly injurious in that they weaken the heart action
                and introduce into the system  drug poisons which
                irritate the nerves. It is needless to caution the reader against the use of any
                sort of "dope" which may contain cocaine, morphine, or heroin. The nervous sufferer
                who seeks the bliss of Nirvana by the use of these deadly drugs is doomed to certain
                disappointment in that they will ultimately wake up and find themselves suffering
                the tortures and torments of a literal hell, mentally, morally, and physically. It
                must be remembered that when worry is cast out by drugs, like the demon of old it is
                sure to return ere long, with seven devils more wicked than itself.
            

            
              THE TOBACCO HABIT

              Some patients are able to give up their tobacco without a struggle, even when the
                habit is of years standing, while others succeed only after a severe fight or after
                repeated attempts. We are never able to estimate the hold which tobacco has upon a
                given patient, and we are not, therefore, in position to estimate the effort which
                will be required to gain one's freedom from this drug habit. I have found the
                so-called silver nitrate treatment of the cigarette habit valuable-- it at least
                possesses a psychological value-- in that it represents something definite being
                done for the "cure" of the patient. Other aids in breaking up the nicotine habit are
                the use of Turkish or Russian baths, the wet sheet pack, and the electric light
                bath. Electricity, preferably in the form of galvanism to the spine, fomentations to
                the spine, leg baths with cold applications to the head, fomentations or arc light
                over the stomach and liver, warm baths and cold salt rubs, are all effective
                measures in relieving the nervousness from which so many patients suffer immediately
                after giving up tobacco. Graduated cold baths may also be given daily in connection
                with these eliminative procedures.

              In applying fomentations use a piece of ordinary woolen bed blanket, or a thick
                woolen cloth of any sort; in the absence of other materials even a towel will serve.
                This fomentation cloth should be wrung as dry as possible out of water as hot as the
                patient can bear, placed across the stomach and covered with a larger piece of dry
                flannel or blanket to aid in retaining  the heat.
                Retention of heat is further aided by putting over this second piece of flannel a
                strip of mackintosh. Burning of the surface of the skin may be avoided by placing
                the wrung-out flannel upon a piece of dry towel, one end of which may be folded over
                the fomentation, and over this in turn the dry flannel and mackintosh. The
                fomentation should be renewed at intervals of three or four minutes-- whenever it
                begins to cool. In removing the fomentation for renewal, care should be taken that
                the dry wrappings are quickly replaced upon the skin so as to prevent chilling of
                the warmed skin surface. At the end of the fomentations which may last, if desired,
                fifteen to twenty minutes, the heated surface of the skin should be vigorously
                sponged or rubbed with cold water and dried quickly.

              The moist abdominal girdle which is worn between applications and at night,
                consists of a linen bandage, eight or nine inches wide wound about the body after
                being wrung out of ice cold water, over this a water proof covering of oiled silk,
                or mackintosh, or other impervious material, while over both of these is placed a
                flannel bandage three or four inches wider. It is a good practice to wear this
                girdle all night for several weeks or even months, if there is a tendency toward
                constipation.

              The sweating pack is also valuable and consists of a three or four minute bath at a
                temperature of 105 to 110 F., followed by wrapping in a linen sheet wrung out of
                cold water, while the patient is further protected by being wrapped in a double
                blanket so as to induce immediate and profuse sweating. At the end of the pack, the
                patient should be given a cold sponge or cold mitten friction in order to prevent
                subsequent chilling of the body and the catching of cold. Any and all of these
                measures are also beneficial in treating cases of alcoholism and ridding the system
                of other drugs.
            

            
              THE RLE OF ALCOHOL

              Alcohol temporarily lowers the blood-pressure. Just as tobacco produces a pale skin
                and drives the blood inside, thus raising the pressure, alcohol produces a red flush
                of the skin, showing that the blood is being drawn to the surface and the  blood-pressure lowered. This is why one feels warm
                under the influence of alcohol, even when he is colder, or even freezing.

              Now we begin to understand the vicious circle of multiple drug addictions. A large
                part of the people use tobacco. They are all living the strenuous life. Their
                dietetic and general living habits are those belonging to the strenuous order. They
                use large quantities of condiments, tea and coffee. But this cannot be kept up
                indefinitely without producing results. Several times a day, a week, or a month, the
                neurotic individual reaches the "bursting stage." He feels wrought up to the highest
                pitch; keyed up to the last notch. ie is intensified to the highest degree. He must
                in some way find a safety valve.

              There must be some way to relieve this constantly increasing tension, and the
                patient finds temporary relief by taking alcohol, which not only dilates the
                blood-vessels of the skin, thus relieving the blood-pressure, but also benumbs the
                higher sensibilities so that they are not susceptible to the fears, worries,
                anxieties, griefs, and disappointments that were previously harassing the mind. In
                this way, alcohol affords a welcome temporary relief to the distracted nerves of the
                restless and neurotic victims of the high-pressure life.

              Hand in hand with the enormous consumption of tea and coffee, there is found the
                steadily increasing use of the various quieting preparations and combinations of the
                bromides. Tea and coffee slightly raise the blood-pressure-- the bromides and their
                compounds, as a general rule, by the sedative action, lower the blood-pressure; and
                so, just as alcohol and tobacco play their neurotic victims into each other's hands,
                the heavy and habitual users of tea and coffee find deceptive relief in the use of
                bromides and other quieting headache remedies and sleeping powders.
            

            
              SUGAR VERSUS ALCOHOL

              I have long been interested in the study and observation of the dietetic habits of
                periodical drinkers and chronic inebriates, and have become finally convinced that
                heavy drinkers are all suffering from a more or less disordered metabolism. I have
                observed that they are usually inordinately fond of fiery condiments and various
                highly spiced foods. They are quite often  heavy meat
                eaters and I have found large numbers of drinkers who eat but small amounts of the
                carbohydrates, particularly of sugar. I am not alone in observing this latter
                condition. Dr. Spitzig and others have recently suggested that the abnormal craving
                for alcohol is directly associated with the under-eating of sugar and the over-use
                of pungent condiments and other highly seasoned foods. It should be noted that the
                saloon provides condiments and not candy in connection with the "free lunch." It is
                a settled fact in my experience that even moderate users of alcohol are not as a
                rule very fond of candy; as the supply of alcohol is increased the desire for sugars
                seems to be correspondingly decreased. I have had alcoholics under my care who had a
                positive dislike for candy or sugar in any form. As a rule heavy drinkers do not use
                sugar in their tea or coffee; neither are they very fond of pastries and desserts.
                There can be but little doubt on the other hand that the inordinate appetite for
                stimulating food, highly seasoned meats and other articles of diet rich in
                condiments, tends directly to create a physical demand for alcohol-- a thirst which
                water cannot quench.

              The chemical relation of carbohydrates to alcohol is significant. Dextrose is
                convertible into carbon dioxid and ethyl alcohol. The combination of carbon,
                hydrogen, and oxygen makes for increased nutrition whether it be derived directly
                from alcohol or indirectly from sugars and starches. The human organism when
                deprived of sufficient sugar seems likely to demand an increased supply of alcohol.
                Conversely, when the body is satiated with alcohol, it has little need for
                carbohydrates.

              While the sugar treatment of alcoholics is far from being a "cure," nevertheless I
                have found that this theory works out to practical advantage in the managment of
                those habitual or moderate drinkers who desire entirely to discontinue the use of
                alcohol. I advise these patients to eat sugar upon their cereals, to eat a large
                quantity of sweet fruits, pastries, chocolates (not between meals), and ice-cream,
                and in order to avoid over-irritating the stomach by the consumption of too much
                cane sugar, I advise these patients to use some of the  manufactured malt preparations which are on the market; and in some cases where a
                psychological effect of the "sugar diet" is highly desirable, I have followed the
                advice to give a dram of lactose in powdered form every two hours. The employment of
                the sugar treatment in alcoholics seems to be attended with good results, but
                whether it is due to any chemical action, as is claimed for the silver nitrate
                treatment of the cigarette habit, or whether the beneficial effects in both
                instances are largely psychic, I am not at this writing prepared to say. I can only
                record my observation of the fact that both procedures seem to be of practical
                assistance in the management of these cases and I have seen no harmful effects
                attend the use of either.
            

            
              MODERATE DRINKING

              I am fully aware of the fact that when I counsel a neurasthenic to give up the use
                of alcohol, I am in a measure imposing a form of social isolation upon him. I am
                further conscious of the fact that I am asking him to undergo a peculiar species of
                fraternal self-denial and sociologic hardship. But are not these the very sterling
                and manly qualities which the neurasthenic stands in such great need of? Are not
                will-power and self-control the very virtues he must cultivate in order to bring
                about his cure? Besides, are not our neurotic patients the very ones who stand in
                greatest danger of allowing their social tippling and moderate drinking to lead them
                ultimately and hopelessly into the toils of chronic inebriety and confirmed
                dipsomania? Are not these patients the very ones who start out in great
                self-confidence to drink moderately and end up hopeless victims to the alcohol
                habit?

              It is these neurasthenics, these disordered and inefficiently controlled beings who
                stand in greatest danger of becoming habitually addicted to any and all of the
                commonly used drugs including alcohol, and they represent a type of human being
                which it is most difficult to deliver from the habit when once it is formed. In this
                connection I can do no better than to quote a portion of a letter from a confirmed
                alcoholic published in a recent work on nerves.
            

            

            
              THE WOES OF INEBRIETY

              I realize how necessary it is that I should abstain from alcohol, and countless
                times I have resolved to do so. I have fortified my resolution with prayer, by
                appeals to that Source from which we are promised that there shall be no denial if
                we go sincerely and humbly. How often have I read, "Whatsoever ye shall ask in
                prayer, believing, ye shall receive," and how bitterly disappointed I have been that
                my appeals are always unheeded! I have strengthened my will by pledges to one whom I
                hold in higher regard than any one in the world; by physical discipline, and by
                counsel from your profession. I have sought refuge in the country, remote from
                centers where drink was to be obtained. I have availed myself of the sanity, the
                loyalty, and the devotion of my wife by sharing with her my fears and my
                determination to make a daily, an hourly fight against temptation. I have even taken
                the Keeley Cure! Yet all to no avail. My physician says I am threatened with
                neuritis and acute Bright's disease, and tells me that I must stop alcohol. He
                neglects to tell me how I shall stop. I have no desire to disgrace
                my family or to fill with misery and incapacity the years that remain to me. I am a
                man of sentiment and of education, possessed of a sense of duty to my family, and to
                the community in which I live-- and, delivered from this demon, it is possible that
                I might be able to do something that would contribute to the joy of living for
                others. But unless I can get aid I am done for, and the sooner I experience
                translation the better for me and for all those whom my existence concerns.

              It is not alone the fact that my capacity for work has gone, but I am enthralled,
                enslaved, emasculated. There was a time when I awoke each morning with a joy of
                life, a desire to accomplish, a capacity to do, a feeling of well being, which, now
                that they are only memories, are to me as the sight of green meadows, winding
                rivers, and cool forests to the traveler, irretrievably lost in the desert.
                Occasionally I used to be able to go two or three days without recourse to drink,
                and then, despite my strongest effort, I would blot out every mental and moral
                resemblance to my Maker. Gradually there fell from me, like rags from a beggar, the
                desire or the willingness to abstain at all, and in its place came my present
                incessant craving. I see the necessity for work. I see it lie before me in various
                stages of incompletion; I realize the weighty obligations that are imposed upon me
                by my children. I am deeply conscious of the finger of contempt pointed at me by my
                fellow-men; I have a sincere desire to live a life of usefulness and to accomplish
                   something worth while. No one can realize more
                keenly than I do that I must deliver myself from this octopus which has fastened
                itself upon me, which has sapped my moral fiber and destroyed my will-power. It
                availeth nothing to tell me that I must stop; as well tell water not to run down
                hill or sap not to well upward in the tree. Nor are any of the devices or
                admonitions which have been suggested to me adequate to combat it.

              It will not suffice to give me advice and a prescription. That has all been done
                before and it has availed nothing. What I ask is a resuscitation from a state of
                death as real as that from which Lazarus rose. That required a miracle, and I am
                convinced that nothing less will suffice for me.
            

            
              ADVICE TO DRINKERS

              As illustrative of my own methods of reasoning with the unfortunate victims of
                drink, I can do no better than to quote Dubois: 
                  A young man came to me because he gave way to drink; he voluntarily sought the
                    consultation in the desire of being cured. With the plenary indulgence that we
                    owe to these strayed ones, I point out to him the various reasons why he should
                    give up his habit; such as consideration for his physical health, his material
                    and moral future and the remorse that makes him unhappy. I urge him to take
                    courage again and kindle his desire for a worthier life that will restore
                    happiness to his family. He listens and answers sadly: "What can you expect?
                      It is stronger than I."
                    "My dear sir," I say, "It is needless to tell me that; you speak of
                      the past, and it is in fact past; we cannot alter it in any way. Your passions
                      have been stronger than the motives of reason. Let us speak no more of the
                      past."-- "It is the future of which I am talking," he replies, "I have
                      so often tried to correct myself without succeeding, notwithstanding that I
                      already quite recognize the value of the moral reasons you set before
                    me."
                  Yes, I see that you judge of the future from the past, as when we say "He who
                    has drunk will drink." Do you not know that the temperance and abstinence
                    societies have frequently given the lie to that discouraging proverb? Besides,
                    in the name of logic, I cannot allow you to speak of the future. We have always
                    the right to say "It has been stronger than I"; but one cannot say "It will be
                    stronger than I." Doubtless the past may make you fear for the future, but do
                    not forget that the latter does not belong to us. Between now  and tomorrow, or later, events may happen in your
                    material, intellectual, or moral life that will determine other conduct for you.
                    Suppose even that you relapse this evening, tomorrow, the day after or many
                    times again. Every time that you come to confide your fault to me I shall have
                    the same plenary indulgence for a past that no one can change. Each relapse
                    belongs to the past periods of life; of the future neither you nor I know
                    anything yet. The faults of our life are like railway accidents; a train is
                    derailed; that belongs to the past, and it is no reason that the next one should
                    also run off the rails. Is it not probable that the pointsman found to be at
                    fault will give more careful attention to his duty in the future?
                  Reflect and realize more and more clearly that your conduct is leading you into
                    a quagmire; the more you see the danger the more you will recoil from it
                    appalled. There has never been but one way to correct a vice, namely, to
                    recognize the dangers it entails for us; there is but one way of acquiring a
                    virtue; that is to see clearly the advantages it brings us. Beyond that there is
                    no wisdom. Continue, not to make vain efforts of will, like a man uselessly
                    waving his arms, but to acquire by reflection, by my counsels which are drawn
                    from experience, the moral clear-sightedness which safeguards our always
                    difficult journey along the path of life. The progress of a man in the moral
                    world is like that of an explorer in an unknown country. He often loses his way,
                    and his only guides are his natural instincts, his own experience and that of
                    the travelers who have preceded him. When he discovers that he is astray he
                    should retrace his steps and seek the right road. What would you say of the man,
                    who, instead of making inquiries, lay down at the side of the road and wept over
                    his past mistakes?-- Go now and come back and see me in a few days. You will
                    always receive the same kindness, the same patience, but also, understand, the
                    same arguments, because there are no others.
                
            

            
              PHYSICAL AND MORAL TREATMENT

              In the physical treatment of alcoholism we follow the same general lines as those
                suggested in connection with the tobacco habit, the purpose being to facilitate the
                elimination of the drug while the nervous system is toned up by means of
                hydrotherapy, electricity, and massage. In this way it is possible greatly to
                shorten the period of time in which the patient experiences those undesirable
                reaction effects which follow the sudden discontinuance of the regular use of any
                drug.

              

              The moral treatment of the neurotic alcoholic consists in first having him sign a
                pledge solemnly promising to give up the use of alcohol. I prefer to have these
                patients sign a religious pledge; in fact, it has been my observation-- and I have
                studied a great number of these cases-- that the "religious cure" of inebriety,
                while far from being infallible and all-powerful, is nevertheless, able to exhibit a
                larger number of patients permanently cured than any other regime with which I am
                acquainted. The Rescue Missions of our large cities are able to exhibit a vast and
                interesting gallery of temperance heroes who have been raised up from the drunkard's
                gutter and who, by the combined religious and psychic forces kept at work in
                connection with their religious association, meetings, etc., are kept sober year
                after year. As I have pointed out elsewhere, these moral associations and spiritual
                influences are all highly useful in uplifting the victims of drink.
            

            
              MORPHINE

              Morphine lowers the blood-pressure; so, when the individual has used tobacco or
                cocaine, which result in unduly raising the pressure, it is only natural that he
                should seek relief from this tension by the use of either alcohol or morphine. This
                is why alcohol and tobacco go hand in hand, tobacco producing high-pressure; but a
                low-pressure cannot be long tolerated the individual must have something to tone him
                up, to restore the pressure, and this is secured by more tobacco. Likewise, morphine
                and cocaine play into each other's hands-- the one temporarily counteracting the
                effects of the other, until the unfortunate victim is a user of both. All methods of
                relieving high tension or overcoming insomnia by drugs are snares and delusions.

              I have observed that a great many victims of some drug habit especially in the case
                of morphine and its cousins, have begun the use of the drug as a means of relieving
                pain or some other physical distressing sensation. I think it will be helpful,
                therefore, in this connection, to call attention to the numerous ways in which pain
                can be relieved without resort to the use of pain-killers and other drugs and
                opiates.
            

            

            
              TWENTY-FIVE WAYS OF TREATING PAIN WITHOUT DRUGS

              An entire chapter could profitably be devoted to the subject of relieving pain
                without drugs, but we can here give but the briefest outline of the different
                physical measures which are serviceable in the treatment of pain.

              
                
                  Hot water bag. Hot water rubber bags of various shapes and sizes
                  are invaluable in the treatment of mild pains in the back and abdomen, not to
                  mention neuralgias.

                
                  Hot fomentations. The fomentations are excellent pain killers.
                  They can be given in a series or followed by a cold rub or a cool compress. In
                  other cases they may be followed by the all-night heating compress previously
                  described.

                
                  Hot sponging. The water should be used as hot as the patient can
                  bear; in fact, it should be almost painful, and is especially valuable in
                  neuralgia and backache.

                
                  Alternate sponging. This method is valuable in the pain of
                  internal congestion and should be made over the painful part. Alternate compresses
                  are also useful.

                
                  The heating compress. This is applied by wringing the cloth out
                  of cold water, putting over the painful part, covering with mackintosh and several
                  thicknesses of flannel, as previously described. It acts like a poultice. This is
                  excellent in neuritis.

                
                  Alternate hot and cold. Many cases of pain which do not yield to
                  heat are relieved by the alternate use of the hot-bag and the ice-bag, or the
                  alternation of fomentations and the ice-bag.

                
                  The ice-bag. Cold will sometimes relieve the pain of deep-seated
                  inflammation better than heat, as in the case of the ice-bag in acute
                  appendicitis. Cold rubbing is also sometimes helpful, as well as cold compresses,
                  in headache.

                
                  Electricity. Both galvanic and high-frequency electricity are
                  used very effectively in the treatment of different pains.

                
                  Diathermy. This is probably the latest scientific treatment of
                  pain and consists in the conversion of electric currents into heat after they have
                  penetrated the tissues.

                
                  Hot air. Hot air is a great pain reliever as used in "oven
                  baking" for rheumatism, or in heated air currents for ear troubles.

                

                
                  Live steam. A jet of live steam directed upon the sciatic nerve
                  is the best known treatment for relieving that painful condition.

                
                  The arc light. The therapeutic arc light is highly useful in
                  treating neuritis and deep-seated pains in abdomen and other parts of the
                  body.

                
                  Sunlight. Sunshine is good for pain. Animals when suffering pain
                  always lie down in the sun. The heat of an open flame or an open fire place may
                  also be thus utilized.

                
                  Radiant heat. This is applied by means of an incandescent
                  electric lamp placed in some sort of a reflector, and is excellent in neuritis,
                  neuralgia, and other acute pains.

                
                  Poultices. Poultices when applied by means of cotton, corn meal,
                  flaxseed or potter's clay (antiphlogistine) are all highly useful in treating and
                  relieving pain.

                
                  General hot bath. Severe internal pain as in gall stones and
                  even in sciatica is sometimes best relieved by a very hot full bath.

                 Hot blanket pack. Like the hot bath, the packs are very useful in
                  generalized pain, rheumatism, and other achy sensations.

                
                  Hot foot bath. It should be taken as hot as can be borne. The
                  leg bath is still more effective. These baths are especially useful in relieving
                  nervous headaches and deep-seated pain in the pelvis.

                
                  Hip and leg pack. Hot packs to the hips and legs are especially
                  valuable in deep-seated pain of the abdomen and pelvis. In painful menstruation an
                  ice-bag may be slipped in under the pack and applied to the seat of pain.

                
                  Hot sitz bath. These baths should be started at a temperature of
                  102, and gradually raised to 110 or 115-- as hot as can be borne. The feet
                  should be in water as hot as can be borne.

                
                  The hot enema. Temperature of the water may be from 102 to 107,
                  and is an invaluable treatment for intestinal pain, as well as the pain of gall
                  stones, rheumatism, pelvic pains, inflammation of the bladder, neuralgia,
                  etc.

                
                  Rest. Many forms of pain will be greatly relieved if the  painful member, or the entire body, is put at
                  absolute rest in bed.

                
                  Position. Pain in the limbs is often greatly relieved by
                  elevating the feet, or by raising the foot of the bed upon which the patient
                  lies.

                
                  Diverting the attention. Patients are often relieved of mild
                  pain by reading a fascinating book, or by the conversation of congenial
                  friends.

                
                  Mental training. Many patients are able to train themselves to
                  bear a certain amount of suffering. In this way they avoid the use of drugs while
                  time and nature bring about a cure. And so we would earnestly urge the reader to
                  try one or more, or even a number of these methods for relieving acute or chronic
                  pain, before resorting to the continuous use of any of the habit forming
                  drugs.
              
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Whatever the arguments in favor of moderate drinking, it goes without
                  debate that neurotics should abstain from alcohol and all other stimulating and
                  narcotizing drugs.

                 The moral resolution and will-power exercised in giving up drink or
                  drugs often constitutes the beginning of the "cure" of neurasthenia.

                 Those neurotics who seek Nirvana by the drug route invariably find
                  instead a literal hell, mentally, morally, and physically.

                 It is advisable for nervous patients to discontinue the use of tobacco
                  in all its forms.

                 Hydrotherapy administered in conjunction with psychotherapy are great
                  aids in overcoming the nicotine habit.

                 Electric light baths, the silver nitrate treatment, and other "cures"
                  are all helps in overcoming the cigarette habit.

                 Alcohol and morphine lower the blood-pressure, while tobacco and
                  cocaine raise blood-pressure, and thus they play their victims into the hands of
                  each other.

                 The "sugar cure" for alcoholism is based on sound chemical reasoning
                  and is undoubtedly of some value.

                 Neurotics and alcoholics should eschew fiery condiments-- avoid those
                  things which create a thirst which water cannot quench.

                 Neurasthenics need just the self-discipline and will-power which is
                  required in the social and public abstinence from liquor.

                 The individual of neurotic constitution is the very one who  should carefully avoid all practices which are likely
                  to result in drug addictions.

                 It is the neurotic man or woman who starts out as a moderate or
                  social drinker and ends up a dipsomaniac.

                 The cure of inebriety lies along the lines of hygiene, persistent
                  psychotherapy, wholesome environment, together with strong moral and religious
                  influences.

                 The neurasthenic inebriate must look forward, not backward; hope for
                  such dwells only in the future.

                 The physical treatment of alcoholism by baths, etc., is along much
                  the same line as that advised for tobacco users.

                 Neurasthenics should pay particular attention to avoid the habitual
                  use of all pain-relieving and sleep-producing drugs.

                 There are twenty-five different non-drug methods of relieving pain
                  and these should be fully understood and intelligently utilized by nervous
                  sufferers.
              
            
          

          

            

            CHAPTER XXXII THE WRITING OR ELIMINATION
              CURE

            IN A former chapter we laid considerable stress upon the
              desirability of eliminating our emotional experiences rather than to allow them to
              accumulate as a result of constant suppression. The practical outworking of this
              teaching necessitates that some provision be made for the expression of the patient's
              thoughts and feelings, and I have discovered but three ways in which this can
              acceptably be accomplished. The nervous patient is able to gain the relief of
              emotional expression through either talking, as in medical
              consultations; in writing, as in the keeping of a therapeutic diary
              for the physician; and in praying-- the personal devotions of the
              emotional and sincere Christian believer.

            
              THE WRITING CURE

              While our patients get great good from telling their story fully and freely to the
                physician, I have found it highly undesirable to allow them to dwell too freely or
                frequently upon their melancholy thoughts and morbid feelings. I have therefore
                found it an excellent plan to have these patients keep a therapeutic diary-- a diary
                intended only for my personal and confidential inspection, therefore one in which
                they could most freely and fearlessly write out their inmost thoughts and feelings--
                fully indulge in the expression of their every abnormal fear and emotional whim.

              The patient brings this diary to my office once a week or once in two weeks and
                leaves it without comment. (I instruct them to employ two books, in which they write
                alternately between visits to the office.) This I read over and make notations of
                those things I desire to take up in the next consultation and in this way I have
                found that the hour of consultation,  instead of being
                devoted to a rehash of old psychic difficulties, is more profitably occupied by a
                therapeutic visit in which I can in an intelligent manner direct the conference into
                those lines which will meet the patient's situation as shown in the diary of the
                previous week. I have further found that the "diary cure" is an excellent means of
                getting the patients to pin themselves down to definite statements and to train them
                into those habits of precision, system and order which are such an important part of
                the treatment and cure of neurasthenics and psychasthenics.

              And in this connection I think I can do nothing better to help my readers to help
                themselves along these lines than to present in this chapter numerous selections
                which I have taken from the recent diaries of my neurasthenic pupils and
                psychasthenic friends.
            

            
              TAKING STOCK IN WORRY AND OBSESSIONS

              As an illustration of how thoroughly the nervous patients may be taught to
                understand themselves, to discount their fears, to classify and control their
                feelings and successfully eliminate their emotions, I offer the following statement
                just handed me by a patient who has been under a few months' treatment and who,
                before she was discharged, was asked to submit a brief summary of the causes of her
                mental difficulties and also to make a statement as to her concept of the means
                which had been employed to effect her cure and which she must continue to use in
                order to maintain a healthy and normal mental state. It is needless to say that
                after reading over the following concise, intelligent, and I may even say,
                scientific, statement, I was prepared to dismiss her case with this parting
                admonition: "You understand yourself every bit as well as I do. Your statement is
                  evidence that you know exactly how your cure has been brought about, and I may
                  therefore safely send you back into the big wide world to take your place as one
                  of its workers, knowing full well that if any of your former mental 'bugaboos'
                  should by chance find their way back into your experience, you will know how
                  successfully to combat these psychologic 'hobgoblins,' and I have every confidence
                  that you will achieve a  complete victory over them,
                  without even the necessity of again consulting me for help in these matters. I
                  congratulate you on the splendid and brilliant fight you have made. Your statement
                  shows you have been a diligent pupil, a studious patient. I have every confidence
                  in you and I believe that you have become an intelligent master of your emotions.
                  Good-by; may God speed you on in your new life of self-mastery." I now quote
                exactly as was handed to me, the patient's final statement, which we can most
                appropriately call her Therapeutic Graduating Thesis.
            

            
              A GRADUATING THESIS

              In compliance with your request, I submit the following statement of the causes of
                my trouble, and also the cure, as I understand the matter: 
                  I. THE CAUSES

                   The feeling of inability to take charge of my house and family-- and
                    aversion to it, and the presence in the house of an uncongenial relative.

                   Reading Dr. Evans' article in the Tribune, in which he said--
                    speaking of the change of life: "then come the maniac depressives, and
                    melancholics"; also that those having the change artificially brought about
                    would suffer the same things as other women, I had understood that such was not
                    the case.

                   Since my earliest childhood I have felt that I was in some way
                    different from other people. I know that I have a quick and bright mind, but
                    that I am not a deep thinker. Reading articles on phrenology, etc. I realized
                    that my chin was weak, and my head too flat in the back. In a word, I feel that
                    I am what might be called subnormal. In spite of this I have led a happy, useful
                    life, and have always tried to think that I was only responsible for my life and
                    works; not for what I have inherited.

                   Ordinarily the feeling of self-condemnation and all the evils which
                    come with introspection, do not touch me; but during the last siege of
                    nervousness after my last child was born, these thoughts and worse ones fairly
                    seared my brain, and all these things were revived recently. One other time
                    somebody wrote to Dr. Evans in the Tribune saying that for
                    five months after an operation on her ovaries, she had felt fine; then, when
                    writing, said she was sick all the time. Dr. E. replied that she was passing
                    through the change, so even now the thought haunts me that after awhile I will
                    be worse again.

                  

                   My husband's health, and his consequent nervous state. My worry lest
                    he too will break down.

                   A physical cause was the inflamed condition of the uterus, probably
                    caused by too much walking. I felt I must get out of the house, and probably
                    walked too much.

                   Reading in your Faith and Fear that reeducation of
                    the will was inadequate to cure persistent obsessions.

                  
                    The insurmountable obstacle and burden one must always struggle against who
                      was reared an only child and taught from infancy to marriageable age to
                      depend, not on herself, but on others for everything.
                    Right here I will be self-assertive and state that considering this, I have
                      made a great success. All the self-reliance, self-possession, self-control I
                      now have I have gained since my marriage.
                  
                
                
                  II. THE CURE

                   The possession and assertion of naturally good instincts.

                   Praying several times a day.

                   The presence of my mother and father; which, besides comforting me,
                    relieved me of a part of housekeeping cares.

                   The conscious statement to the contrary when some awful thought came
                    into my mind.

                   Faith in you and in my ability to carry out your
                    instructions.

                   Improvement in uncongenial surroundings.

                   The proper treatment of all my physical ills and consequent feeling
                    of returning health, and the hope that my good husband will be similarly
                    helped.

                   The proper understanding and recognition of the rle of "memory" of
                    past troubles in relation to present and future difficulties.
                
              
            

            
              AUTO-PSYCHANALYSIS

              Not long since there came to us an extremely nervous and highly depressed patient
                to whom, after the first or second conference, we fully explained the therapeutic
                procedure of psychanalysis and advised this patient to undertake the careful
                analysis and introspection of her psychological life and emotional experiences; and
                that she was successful in her undertaking of auto-analysis, I think, is clearly
                shown by the following extract from her written report. There are but few patients
                who can safely be trusted with this delicate and dangerous task. I may further state
                that the patient made rapid and continuous  progress
                from that day to this, and is once more enrolled among the world's workers, enjoying
                her work and from the last report, eminently successful in it. The extract from her
                auto-analytic report runs as follows: 
                  I think I did not know depression as a child. About the time I was maturing, we
                    spent nearly a year with my grandmother in the suburbs. If I remember correctly,
                    I was fifteen, when there were five accidental deaths caused by the trains at a
                    grade crossing. I saw some of the bodies under sheets and a morbid horror took a
                    violent hold on my mind, so that I shuddered by day and cried out in my sleep by
                    night. I was normal in every other respect and enjoyed life, but death, or any
                    mention of it filled me with a morbid feeling. I can scarcely describe-- not, in
                    any sense, a fear that I might die, but just a confused horror. Later I entered
                    high school. The words moribus, moribund, in fact, any word derived from the
                    Latin root meaning death, were repellent to me. A black cloth, because black
                    signified death, was unpleasant to my sight.
                  In time, this particular fear wore entirely away and does not, in the least,
                    affect me now. Also at the time I matured, I became self-conscious and dreaded
                    to recite in school or appear before the public. Although at my ease in general
                    conversation and among people of any class, I still retain a shrinking fear of
                    speaking or singing before an audience, no matter how small. This, of course,
                    could have been overcome by a little sacrifice of pride.
                  My mother was a deeply religious woman and because of so much apparent deadness
                    in the churches sought spiritual uplift and inspiration from teachers outside
                    the orthodox folds.
                  By this, I mean teachers who taught holiness, total eradication of sin and a
                    host of other so-called deeper truths. Most of these teachers were sane,
                    splendid men and women, but I was at the adolescent period and put a morbid
                    construction on all that I heard. I had no brothers or sisters and I worshipped
                    my mother with a devotion almost unnatural, at least, beyond the average. We
                    were widely different in our natures but I sought to believe as she did. While
                    her religion brought her great joy and peace, mine, in spite of all I could do,
                    brought me misery. As I have said, I must have put a wrong construction on
                    everything that was said. For instance, the doctrine of dying to self was
                    utterly unintelligible to me. To wear somber clothes, discard all that the
                    girlish heart holds dear, in short, to live the life of "separation" meant hell
                    to me. Intimately related as we were to one another, I did not tell my mother of
                    the fearful  mental agony through which I passed.
                    I did not wear plain clothes and lived only partially a "separated" life, but I
                    worried almost continuously. When not under this teaching, I would throw the
                    burden off for a time. A factor that made the struggle doubly hard was that I
                    had inherited the pleasure-loving nature of my father. I came inwardly to shrink
                    in terror from meetings of all sorts outside of the church. For more than twelve
                    years I have been troubled by spiritual things. I honestly loved the church but
                    shrank from socalled deeper teachings too many to mention. It seems to me,
                    psychologically speaking, that it has left its mark on me. While talking to Mrs.
                    A-- of these things one day, she said that she had never known anyone to have a
                    similar experience. My religious experiences have been almost too paradoxical to
                    explain coherently. There must be several personalities at work within me, for
                    one cries out for free liberality of thought, though not without the confines of
                    orthodoxy. For instance, to this personality God seems a splendid supreme being
                    desiring the largest liberty for his children, the richest joy and prosperity.
                    To the other personality, held by fear, He seems an absolute tyrant, wanting
                    only that every talent and thought and capability pay blind and unreasoning
                    tribute to Him in craven slavery.
                  After I graduated from high school, I passed a summer of despondency. Again,
                    after an exceptionally hard year of teaching, I experienced another melancholy
                    summer. Soon after school was closed, I went to a lake in the highest spirits
                    and not depressed in the slightest degree. Suddenly, during an electrical storm,
                    I was awakened in the night by the most fearful depression. It seemed active and
                    alive, if possible. The shock lasted all summer. It expressed itself in the
                    feeling of imprisonment, a low roof, a dark room, a closed carriage, even the
                    darkness filled me with panic. I have never wholly recovered from that feeling.
                    It comes to me in the spring of the year. For months the darkness seemed to so
                    imprison me that my mother kept a light burning in or near my room at night.
                    This developed within me a terror of blindness. Occasionally during a time of
                    depression, this fear possesses me for a time.
                  Last Thanksgiving night I walked alone five miles in the moonlight, fighting
                    this fear of blindness. I had lost my mother in August and was under great
                    depression. There was absolutely nothing wrong with my eyes. I should say, here,
                    that my friends have not known of any of these fears and I am considered a very
                    fearless person ready for any "stunt." I have never feared disease until the
                    past year when I lost a cousin with Bright's disease.
                
            

            

            
              GETTING DOWN TO BUSINESS

              Not long ago after listening for two or three hours to a patient's statement of her
                troubles and difficulties, (and this I always do; at the first interview allowing
                the patient to talk herself out literally to empty her mind and very seldom
                interrupt to ask a single question until the story is finished) I said to her:
                  "Now, I appreciate the fullness and completeness with which you have told your
                  story. It will all help me in helping you. I think I can more sympathetically plan
                  and carry forward your treatment, but now what I want you to do is to take all
                  these troubles and difficulties which you have recited to me in detail and write
                  them down, if possible on a single sheet of paper, that we may get right down to
                  business and directly attack something definite. Mind you, get them on one sheet
                  of paper if possible, and I will give you just one week in which to do this. Be
                  back here one week from today with this written statement and you shall have your
                  first lesson." And this is the intelligent and concise statement that was
                handed me at the time of the patient's next visit: 
                  I have reached the conclusion that my troubles are the result of the following
                    faults in the working of my mental machinery: 
                       Self-Depreciation. I have always felt that people did not like
                        me, that I was not attractive, that I did not possess the qualities that
                        attracted others. I have a cousin living near us who is considered very
                        good-looking and charming, also very lively and has always been noticed
                        while I was left out of everything and people have been very free to make
                        comparisons between us. I think that has been a great factor in making me
                        have so poor an opinion of myself. Some of the things that people have
                        always said about me that hurt me are: "Nellie takes everything too
                        seriously." "Oh, we'll shock Nellie." "Nellie is so dignified." "Nellie,
                        what makes you so quiet?"

                       Self-Pity. It seems quite natural that I should feel rather
                        sorry for myself. Why should I not be just as clever and attractive as the
                        other members of my family, at least. I have always considered it rather
                        unfair.

                       Lack of Force. I feel that I am not much of an addition to a
                        crowd. Many people after being thrown with me alone enough to get acquainted
                        with me have said: "I never noticed you before."  "Why don't you let yourself out more?" "You won't let people get
                        acquainted with you." "I never felt that I knew you before." One friend said
                        "You ought not to go in the same society with your sister or cousin, you
                        show off so much more when they aren't around." I said that was impossible,
                        that I must bring myself out more in some way.

                       Distrust. I have very little faith in people.

                       Indecision. I always hate to have to make a decision for I
                        nearly always regret that I didn't make it the other way.

                       Discontent. Some people seem to have the ability to make the
                        best of what they have. I seem to have trouble that way. If I can't have
                        what I want, I don't usually want what I can have. I will say I have
                        overcome these faults to some extent, especially in the last few
                        years.
                    
                
            

            
              ELIMINATING THEOLOGY

              We find that a great many of our neurasthenes and psychasthenes are psychically
                tortured with what I regard as "theology worry." I have never run across many
                patients who were upset mentally or who had gone crazy over simple Christianity--
                that is, the plain, straightforward and untwisted teachings of Jesus Christ. But
                there can be no doubt that the fearful and wonderful creations of the sometime
                theologians have done much to distress and disturb the minds of these nervous
                patients; and in the treatment of these cases I find it necessary to face these
                things squarely. Accordingly, at the proper stage of the treatment, I direct my
                patients to prepare a written and definite statement of their theological troubles,
                one by one, for I long since learned to my sorrow that no attempt to dodge or ignore
                these spiritual difficulties in the mind of the patient will ever be attended with
                success. Inharmonious religious emotions must be eliminated in order to effect the
                patient's cure, just as surely as the disharmonies of the vocational, domestic, or
                sex life must be isolated and assimilated or eliminated. The following extract from
                a patient's "confession of faith" is an illustration of how this plan works out: 
                  I believe that the vicarious blood of Christ not only saves my soul but also,
                    makes me a joint heir with Christ. This gives me every royal privilege and
                    prerogative. I believe that "all things are lawful  but all things are not expedient." I do not believe that the royal child of a
                    royal father must beat on the doors of Heaven nor sacrifice, crucify, and
                    renounce a host of legitimate desires and natural pleasures to assure an
                    omniscient God and loving Father that his child is yielded to the divine Will.
                    This seems to me a relic of barbarism-- a refined form of beating oneself with
                    barbed lashes or walking on spikes as the Oriental devotee does to gain favor
                    with his god.
                  Without understanding, I accept the Bible from cover to cover I believe that
                    the laws of God are immutable-- His natural laws as well as his spiritual laws.
                    I believe that the Christian should be absolutely without care. I believe that
                    his first duty is love and obedience toward God, and the next, love and service
                    to his fellow creatures. In these lie the source of true joy.
                  I believe that Christ is coming again to receive all of his own-- weak and
                    strong. As to the "baptism of the Spirit" which I have accepted by faith, I do
                    not know whether to call it a second work of grace or a fuller development of
                    the first work. I lean toward the latter thought. Christ seems not to have
                    taught two steps.
                  If meat makes my brother to offend, I will eat no meat. This enters into all my
                    ways but to what extremes it should be carried, I don't know.
                  The Bible says that to reign with Christ I must suffer. I know that this cannot
                    mean depression. I know that my Master meant that I should be happy not only
                    because the Bible so teaches, but also because of the physiological effect of a
                    joyful spirit on the body.
                  There seems to be an opposing force continually at work. When I determinedly
                    closed my ears to this evil influence, I won the day. I know from experience
                    that pure blood and excellent circulation are powerful factors in the fight
                    against despondency. On the other hand, I know of people who have depleted
                    bodies, who seem never depressed. So I should deduct that there are other
                    conditions beside physiological ones to be dealt with. I should think that the
                    wedge of faith would be much harder to drive into a permanent position than
                    would a wedge of fear. Fear is a weaker element and humanity leans toward the
                    weaker side. I suppose that you plant the wedge of faith by systematic and
                    continuous blows of the right quality; that is, positive thoughts of an
                    optimistic nature. I can see how both wedges could be sunk into the brain, or
                    mind, but I cannot comprehend the wedge of fear ever being totally  eradicated except by eternal vigilance which would
                    almost spell fear.
                
            

            
              THE REFLECTIONS OF A PSYCHASTHENE

              In the first year of the management of a case of typical psychasthenia, I have
                followed the practice of seeing the patient on an average of about once in two
                weeks. It is a routine practice to have all psychasthenes keep a diary for the first
                year. This diary is of highest value both to patient and physician. That other
                psychasthenics may be encouraged, that they may appreciate that others besides
                themselves have a long, hard fight that runs even into years, and that they may
                further appreciate that even in the most difficult, long standing, and hereditary
                cases, there is occasion for recognizing improvement from time to time; and further,
                that they may catch the spirit of optimistic courage shown by the first year's
                struggle of one of the most difficult, if not the worst case of psychasthenia we
                have dealt with for several years, I give the following extracts taken at random
                from the first year's diary of a typical psychasthene, who has fought against heavy
                odds, but who is surely, even though slowly, winning her fight; and as far as it is
                possible to effect a cure of psychasthenia, she deserves, and I think is destined,
                to achieve that cure in time and find herself quite fully restored to efficient
                influence in her family, social, and church activities. I prefer to give these
                extracts without comment, merely suggesting to the reader that they notice the slow,
                but progressive, growth in optimism, self-understanding, patience, and self-confidence in ultimate success.
            

            
              THE THERAPEUTIC DIARY

              Today I am up and fully dressed for the first time in four weeks. It does seem good
                to have all my clothes on, and the family appear to appreciate it as much as I
                do.

              No one thing that money could buy has given us as much pleasure as our
                Victor-Victrola. It certainly is a "thing of beauty and a joy forever." While we ate
                our simple meal at noon today, we listened to Schumann-Heink, Evan Williams, Dr.
                Gorgoza, and some of the Victor opera singers. I do love good music, it is one of
                the things that makes life worth living, and will be enjoyed  by us even more I believe in the life to come. Some one has called it
                the "pastime of eternity," and surely heaven would not be complete to me if I had to
                leave music behind.

              A fitting day it is on which to celebrate Lincoln's birthday. As a true American I
                am glad to honor him in my mind today; the more I read about his life the more it
                appeals to me as being truly great. Surely he knew what it meant to win the victory
                in spite of obstacles, and I should like to have some of that same spirit. Perhaps
                one who has to battle with himself is as truly heroic as one who fights in visible
                warfare; the good Book says "he that ruleth his spirit is greater
                than he that taketh a city."

              Both brain and body seem to be tired out today, but there is a feeling of
                relaxation after strain that is far from uncomfortable and I am experiencing just
                that sensation.

              I am thankful indeed that there is a chance for me to learn to live differently,
                and am beginning to see how it would pay me to go through a process of reeducation,
                even if the uncomfortable physical symptoms remained. And I am assured that they cannot all remain, that they will all be gone when the new education
                displaces the old, so there will be a double joy in recovery. After all, the victory
                always makes the battle worth while, and the harder the fight the sweeter the joy of
                winning.

              Some one has said that the surest way to make our own burdens seem light is to
                compare them with those of other people who have far heavier loads to carry, and I
                suppose that is a legitimate way of consoling ourselves. Certainly the loss of a
                night's sleep is a very small thing compared to the losses suffered by a good many
                people. And yet, it is largely because I am so anxious to get well that I deplored
                the wakefulness. It has been comforting to be assured that as long as one can rest
                in bed the loss of sleep is not particularly harmful. And of course I can see that
                the worry or anxiety about it is worse for me than the mere staying awake. Next time
                such a night comes I'll try to remember what Mrs. Wiggs said, "Don't you go and get
                sorry for yourself. That's one thing I can't stand in nobody. There's always lots of
                other folks you kin be sorry for 'sted of yourself."

              I have been feeling a bit discouraged because the exhaustion has been so pronounced
                in my own case for a few days, but a few  minutes'
                talk with the doctor over the 'phone has cheered me greatly. That 'phone is worth
                its weight in gold at times.

              It is such a comfort to feel that at last we have found the one who knows what my
                trouble is and understands how to help me out of it.

              When I realize how much I have to learn, and how slow the process is, it is easier
                for me to be patient with the children. Perhaps my guidance of them will be wiser
                because I am "in training" myself. I am thankful for the Providence that led us to
                our doctor and I expect to get well under his care.

              My heart goes out to all who suffer, and when I am still stronger I mean to do all
                I can to lessen the misery and increase the happiness in the world. Sometimes I
                wonder if God is not leading me through troubled waters just so I may be able more
                efficiently to help others.

              I must confess to more or less excitement today due to the prospect of a trip
                downtown tomorrow; that is not surprising when one remembers that two years have
                elapsed since my last trip down. I am eager to see the doctor and take another step
                towards getting well.

              Today finds me somewhat weary but quite happy because yesterday spelled victory for
                me. I actually went downtown, spent an hour and a half in the doctor's office, and
                returned home without any undue nervous disturbance. Really, I am not sure that I
                did not enjoy it a little bit.

              The talk with the doctor was a great satisfaction, in fact it is solid comfort,
                after years of misunderstanding, to feel myself in the hands of one who perfectly
                understands both the cause and the cure of my long and stubborn illness. I was so
                anxious to see him again and he gave me so much to think about when I did see him,
                that the trip down and back seemed only incidental. Surely that means progress. I
                felt surprised when it was over to see how I had taken the journey as a matter of
                course.

              A few years ago a new plaything appeared on the market and immediately became
                popular. Like many other new (?) fashions, it was really nothing more than the
                revival of an old one, but was none the less pleasurable for that, and people old
                and young began  working on jig-saw puzzles. To me
                they were a veritable God-send, for they came just at the time when I was most in
                need of some recreation that would not tax me mentally and yet be diverting enough
                to cause me to forget myself. Many a day, when reading or sewing or music seemed
                impossible, I was able to lose myself entirely in hunting for the next piece.

              "Man's extremity is God's opportunity." Yesterday was either the worst day I've had
                in months or the best, and I would rather think it was the latter. Nervously I was
                "down and out" actually drunk from loss of sleep and nerve tension, for I staggered
                once or twice in walking down the hall. The skies seemed dark indeed, and I tired
                myself out trying to solve the problem which has baffled me so long. Then God sent
                an angel, a "really truly" angel dressed in woman's clothes as a disguise, but it
                was not hard to recognize in her a messenger straight from above. She gave me her
                own secret of living a happy care-free life, a real child life
                spiritually and it is a secret worth knowing. As never in my life before, I grasped
                the truth that the God who can help and can heal, is not far away on a throne,
                loving but distant, but he is right with me all the time, caring for me, leading me,
                holding me fast, understanding me. His everlasting arms are holding me and he fully
                knows the physical and nervous and mental conditions, and loving me all the
                time.

              The disappointment of having symptoms persist for weeks and render me miserable has
                been almost more than I could bear. I expected "off-days" and nights too, to occur
                once in a while, but I did not look for any long continued spell of trouble, and its
                significance has doubtless been magnified just because of that.

              I believe the secret of my doctor's success lies in the fact that he knows how to
                handle patients without antagonizing them, for in spite of myself, I resent the
                advice given by well meaning friends.

              He said once that "I'd get well if he should fall down dead," but I hope he lives.
                I really think I'm the worst case he has though it may not seem so to him. With all
                due respect to him I'm afraid he will find it difficult if not impossible to teach
                this "old dog new tricks."

              I can see that I have been too much troubled by unruly emotions, failing to realize
                that they are often the result of purely physical causes and in no wise affect my
                relations to God. I shall have to  let Him manage
                emotions, also, for I cannot do it alone, I've been trying it for years.

              If I could only lose the sense of effort, I doubt not I could make more progress.
                Like Paul I feel that "when I would do good evil is present with me," and
                discouragement seems to be present all of the time. The other day I came across this
                sentence: "When all other compensations fail, there is always this left, that
                nothing lasts forever." That is about all my solace today, for this hot, hot south
                wind must be included and I know when it stops we shall all feel better.

              In looking over my record for the past week or so, I am struck by the complaining
                tone of some of the entries. Guess I'll have to change my tune and write down the
                bright spots.

              Right on top of that last entry I had a very bad night, no sleep at all, hard
                crying spell, rebellion, resentment, and discouragement all running riot until it
                seemed as if seven devils had entered into me. An unseemingly Fourth of July
                celebration, surely, for I did not feel my "independence" at all. The day was one of
                intense heat, which did not mend matters. A friend came in to dine with us
                informally and began to tell of her summers spent upon her brother's farm near
                Traverse City, Michigan. The more I thought of it, the more intense became the
                longing: result, a telegram sent to the farm announcing our coming. We took a
                sleeper at Englewood, rode all night, reached Traverse City at 6 a. m. Sunday, drove
                four miles out to the farm before breakfast, all without any particular discomfort
                on my part except inability to sleep on the train. When I realize that it was only
                in March that I made my first trip downtown and considered it a great feat, it does
                seem that I must have made some progress; to come three hundred and sixty odd miles
                away from home without minding it.

              I have been walking, climbing hills, playing croquet, rowing and auto riding, all
                in moderation for I find even yet that I am not as strong as I look. The hammock
                under the apple tree is a favorite refuge, a good part of the time.

              And so we took the children for a picnic supper and went to the park for a few
                hours and ventured out on the lake for a launch ride-- on the big lake I mean, which
                is sure proof of returning courage on my part.

              

              The family are being granted an immediate proof of my being better while they
                cannot see the good this writing does. It is a pleasure to get into the kitchen with
                a gingham apron on and a big spoon in my hand and stir a boiling mass of stuff that
                is to be enjoyed all through the coming winter. I do not see how an afternoon spent
                at bridge can compare with it for interest, besides I am reasonably sure of winning
                the prize myself if I am careful to use the correct formula.

              And so I went to the party. When I rang the bell, who should come to the door but
                our family physician himself, and the look on his face was worth going a mile or two
                to see. He could hardly "believe his own eyes" as the children say, and finally
                remarked, "Well, you are doing more than you used to do, aren't you?" I said I
                thought so for I had made my second trip to town just two days before. He did not
                have to tell me that he was very greatly surprised to see me, but
                when he said just that I remembered hearing Dr. S. say, "and your friends are going
                to be surprised, too."

              I seem to be having as many moods as the weather this week-- possibly the weather
                is responsible for my variations. Yesterday the air was so warm and heavy, I felt
                tired to an extreme, and depressed, more or less, mentally as well. The cooler
                atmosphere today is welcome, and yet I find it hard to shake off wholly either the
                exhaustion or the depression. Never mind, it is all a part of the game, and I am
                going to win out some day. Sometimes I have a curious sense of duality, a feeling
                that my real self and my nervous self are entirely apart and distinct, and are at
                war with each other. When the nerves are having their way and winning out for the
                time being, at first I begin to feel discouraged, and then a realization of the true
                situation comes and I feel like saying, "Very well, it will be my turn next, and
                some day I'll have you so badly beaten you'll have to stay down for good."

              Another rainy day! I am glad for more reasons than one that I made my trip downtown
                yesterday; it is hard to realize that it is myself who has made three trips down in
                just a little over a month. The only part of it that bothered me at all was having
                to wait for the doctor again, and perhaps that is good discipline. The conference
                with Dr. S. was satisfactory, especially his parting word: "I can see nothing that
                is not favorable to your recovery." The best part of it is, that when I stop to
                look, I can find nothing unfavorable myself, and so I am quite ready to believe his
                statement.

              

              It might be a good scheme to write up my good days with red ink and my bad ones
                with blue, then a glance through the book would show the progress of events. Perhaps
                in time the quantity of red ink would be hard on one's eyes, so we'll be satisfied
                to keep a somber record.

              After such a full day and half hour's sociability in the evening, I might have stayed awake all night; instead I slept like a top, and today I
                am only tired, not tired out. After my unwonted exertions, surely
                I must be better. I really expected to feel worse than I have.

              Everything considered, I have stood the past week very well, having been hopeful
                and cheerful and philosophical most of the time. I can recall only
                one spell of depression.

              A fresh page and a new book! I wonder what story will be written herein, how many
                ups and downs will be recorded, how many tales of victory and defeat? Of one thing I
                feel certain, that progress will be written whether swift or slow and that the end
                of this third note book will proclaim me nearer my goal.

              Two whole days have slipped away since my last entry and busy ones they have been.
                It is such a pleasure to find myself able to do a little work without going all to
                pieces after it.

              I have noticed that it is usually the little things in life that upsets us most,
                just as a pin prick will some times hurt more than a deep cut. It may be because we
                have a multiplicity of small hardships to bear, while great trials come but seldom.
                At any rate in a well ordered life, one must take things as they come and yield
                gracefully to what is inevitable and cling steadfastly to the faith that "all things
                are working together for good."

              It is hard to determine which is more uncomfortable, the nervous tension which
                makes sleep almost an impossibility or the reaction following it which causes one to
                feel stupid and half asleep all day long. Both are part of the "game" I suppose, and
                this game was not invented for the sake of one's personal enjoyment. Moreover, even
                well people have good days and bad ones and will have until the end of time, so it
                is not a matter to trouble me. I do not get so far down as I used to go, and bob up
                more quickly, so there is a gain.

              

              Well, of all the mean, miserable, contemptible, persistent things that ever laid
                hold of a poor human being, psychasthenia is the worst! There are not enough
                adjectives in the English language to describe its mean qualities. It has been
                having fun with me the last few days, to my chagrin. Just as I get to thinking that
                the troublesome nerves are about dead and buried, up they jump and dance a two-step
                on the grave and I have to look on whether I am so inclined or not.

              Able to sleep again at last! And I do feel better, not only because I have had two
                good nights' rest, but especially so because I discovered the cause of the recent
                spell of wakefulness and was able to remedy it. At any rate my trouble was
                undoubtedly due to a local congestion, probably caused by cold, which in turn was
                probably caused by the weather. The weather conditions on Saturday and Sunday were
                enough to upset an elephant. Now, I know the truth and can still believe myself
                better, not well yet, or probably so small a cause would not have kept me awake.
            

            
              A NEUROLOGIST'S ADVICE

              There recently came to my desk a very interesting little work on "nerves"
                consisting of letters from neurotic patients in connection with the neurologist's
                replies. One of the neurologist's letters, the reply to the plaintive plea of a
                psychasthene, I regard as especially good; in fact so good that I present the
                following extracts: 
                  I am in somewhat of a quandary whether I shall tell you the name that we
                    physicians give to the disorder from which you suffer, or whether I shall
                    endeavor to put before you certain rules of life and conduct, conformation to
                    which may restore you to a life of usefulness and comparative happiness. If I do
                    the first, I must warn you against looking up the writings upon the subject, and
                    applying the statements to be found therein to yourself. You know, I am sure,
                    that few things warp our judgment so much as illness, and especially illness
                    within the mental sphere. There is a custom that few physicians transgress, and
                    that is not to undertake to treat themselves when they are ill. The physician
                    whose training and life-habit is to deal with disease, finds that this is the
                    safest and most expeditious course to pursue in order to regain health, and the
                    layman need not hesitate to follow his lead. I shall, however, be very frank
                    with you in the discussion of your infirmities, 
                    and endeavor to put before you the nature of your disorder in such a way that
                    you will comprehend it. Nothing aids the physician so much in his fight with
                    disease as intimate acquaintanceship with the malady and a full understanding of
                    its nature. When he comes to deal with a disorder, whose cure requires the
                    intelligent cooperation of the patient, it is of the greatest value that the
                    patient should have a fairly clear conception of the disease.
                  The symptoms which you describe have probably been known to physicians since
                    the beginnings of medicine. Although we do not find them mentioned in the
                    medical literature of the ancients, we frequently read of such symptoms in the
                    biographies of men whose names have become immortal. Men and women of genius,
                    men and women who write their names indelibly upon the scroll of time, are
                    usually individuals of nervous temperament, or neurotic constitution, of
                    neuropathic diathesis; and although it is in spite of, and not by virtue of this
                    that they achieve fame and add to the luster of their times and to the welfare
                    of the world, nevertheless it would seem that the greatness of their endowment
                    nearly always carries with it the drawbacks inseparable from such a temperament.
                    I do not by any means intend to convey the idea that men of genius must
                    necessarily have symptoms such as those you relate. It is only lately that
                    physicians have realized that symptoms such as yours are the expression of a
                    neuropathic diathesis or constitution which has not been properly disciplined by
                    hygienic measures.
                  The problem that we neurologists most frequently have to solve is, how to
                    arrange the life of the patient who consults us, so that his career shall not be
                    a failure. Unfortunately, we do not get the individual, as a rule, until after
                    he has fully matured and become a creature of fixed habit. We are in the
                    position of a skilled watchmaker, who has been handed a chronometer of which
                    every part seems to be perfect, but which nevertheless will not do the work for
                    which it was intended, or else does the work in an erratic and unreliable
                    manner. The watchmaker gives very little satisfaction if he says that a certain
                    bit of steel used in the construction was not adequately tempered, or a certain
                    coiled spring was not properly annealed. He must do something that will make the
                    watch keep accurate time, and in order to accomplish this, he must attack it
                    fundamentally, take it to pieces, and proceed from the very foundation.
                  A somewhat similar course must be pursued by the physician who essays to treat
                    such constitutional disorders as psychasthenia. He  must attack the patient fundamentally, dissect his character, ferret out the
                    primordial origins of his false-beliefs, analyze the remote antecedents of his
                    first obsessions, go back to the early times when it was admitted that effect
                    naturally followed cause. To be quite normal one must emulate the young child or
                    the animal and be unself-conscious. There was a time when even the germs of your
                    present distressing ideas and sensations did not exist. Therefore, endeavor to
                    determine what their antecedents were, and having found them treat them as
                    enemies. It is largely a matter of self-cure, particularly for a man who like
                    yourself, has the dual advantage of intelligence and a trained mind. You will be
                    assisted in the matter by a course of appropriate reading, carefully selected
                    and faithfully pursued. An adequate philosophy is, in reality, what you are in
                    search of, and I should recommend to you a careful study of Aristotle and
                    Epicurus. You can find amongst the writings of the latter this statement: "We
                      should not be hampered by foolish fears from attaining the goal of our
                      existence-- happiness. Pleasure is the highest good; not the pleasure
                      accompanying a passing sensation, but pleasure as a permanent state-- that
                      state of deep peace and perfect contentment in which we feel secure against
                      the storms of life."
                  If you can take the point of view which Aristotle took, that the mind does not
                    originally possess ready-made ideas but the faculty of forming them, it will
                    help you very much in getting rid of these obsessions that have fastened
                    themselves upon you like barnacles on the bottom of a ship.
                  What can you do directly to help yourself? You must make a firm resolution that
                    at certain times in the day you will dislodge these ideas from your mind by
                    force of will. A repetition of this effort will render their dissociation more
                    and more easy and their recurrence more and more infrequent.
                  
                    
                      "Refrain tonight,
                      And that shall lend a kind of easiness
                      To the next abstinence; the next more easy,
                      For use can almost change the stamp of nature."
                    
                  
                  You will find, moreover, that you will gain greatly by translating your
                    thoughts into some form of action, instead of bottling them up and turning them
                    over and over in your mind. In other words, if you are able to embody your
                    thoughts in speech, in efforts for the benefit of others, in anything that has a
                    definite purpose, it will be of service to you.
                  
                  The truth of the matter is that a man like you should no more need an
                    outsider's help to overcome his symptoms than to cure him of swearing, or of
                    boasting, of a belief in ghosts or in spiritualism. You wouldn't send for a
                    surgeon if, having a thin skin, you got a sliver in your finger. You would set
                    to work to remove it yourself, and in nine instances out of ten, you would
                    succeed. You may regret you have a thin skin, but you soon learn to take
                    precautions not to injure it.
                
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The "elimination cure" of worry and the nervous states is practiced by
                  encouraging free expression of emotion, by the means of writing, talking, and
                  praying.

                 The "writing cure" is practiced by directing the patient to present
                  written theses from time to time dealing with special phases of his
                  experiences.

                 Many neurasthenes and all psychasthenes are directed to keep a
                  therapeutic diary during the early part of their active treatment.

                 This diary serves a double purpose; first, as a means of expression
                  and elimination for the patient; second, as a guide to the physician in the matter
                  of treatment.

                 Before discharging a patient as cured, we frequently ask him to write
                  a "graduation thesis," in which he outlines the causes of his trouble as well as
                  the methods by which his cure has been effected.

                 When a patient's written statement shows he understands his disease
                  just about as well as the physician, he is ripe for dismissal-- he is practically
                  cured.

                 Auto-psychanalysis is carried out by instructing the patient in
                  psycho-analysis and then later have him submit a written statement embodying the
                  results of his mental explorations.

                 Disorder and disharmony in the religious emotions are sometimes
                  responsible for worry and nervousness, as well as disturbances in the business,
                  domestic and sex life of the patient.

                 After the nervous patient has freely "talked out" his troubles, it is
                  a good plan for him to "get down to business" and prepare a written resume of his
                  story for the physician.

                 I sometimes ask such patients to make a categorical statement of
                  their troubles, confining the same to one or possibly two sheets of paper.

                 In unusually bad cases I limit my request for written statements to a
                  single subject or phase of their difficulties. They are always successful in
                  complying with this request.

                 This "writing cure" helps the patient actually, literally,  and visibly, to get things "out of the system;" and
                  with a doctor's aid to get them more or less effectively eliminated and
                  buried.

                 In the treatment of psychasthenia, I have these patients keep up this
                  "therapeutic diary" throughout the first year they are under observation.

                 The perusal of a psychasthene's diary would put to shame the average
                  neurasthene or other nervous worrier who is but comparatively mildly
                  afflicted.

                 In the "writing cure" for eliminating purposes, the patient must be
                  cautioned to write fully and sincerely-- to record both the good and the
                  bad.

                 The psychasthenes must be taught to live a philosophical life, to
                  master the art of living with themselves as they are and the world as it is-- to
                  live in the future, not the past.

                 We must constantly remember that in these more difficult nervous
                  disorders we are treating the patient, not his symptoms.

                 The "writing cure" is an aid to the patient in "seeing himself as
                  others see him," and greatly assists the physician in detecting how far the
                  patient possesses this gift of self-recognition.
              
            
          

          
            
            CHAPTER XXXIII THE STUDY OR SUBSTITUTION
              CURE

            WHEN the patient's mind is filled with worry, anxiety, fear, and
              evil forebodings, it must be recognized that these undesirable mental states cannot be
              overthrown and cast out of the intellect by mere resolution, by sheer force of
              will-power. Other better, more healthy, and stronger ideas must be formulated and
              built up in the mind to take the place of their unhealthy and mischief-making
              predecessors; and it is in the work of substituting good ideas for bad ones, in
              building up healthy and helpful complexes to displace the unhealthy and diseased ones,
              that systematic study and carefully planned courses of reading prove to be an
              invaluable aid.

            
              NATURE STUDY

              There are some fads that are not so bad after all for the neurasthenic. I refer to
                the nature study crazes-- making collections of insects, flowers, mineral specimens.
                The enthusiastic spirit of the collector is highly beneficial even if not employed
                in such uplifting lines as nature study. Even stamp collecting, collecting of
                paintings, china, music, or oriental rugs are all useful therapeutic diversions.

              There is much help to be had from the study of books on birds, trees, flowers,
                animals, bees, all phases of geology, biology, astronomy-- anything in fact that
                will get the patient's mind off himself and onto the great big world and the greater
                and bigger universe of which it is a part. (Fig. 18.)

              I must in this connection, however, warn my readers against overwork-- nervous
                exhaustion, against too long walks and too intent application even in the pursuit of
                these curative fads.

              Nature study is a splendid substitute for the mirror habit, the habit nervous
                sufferers have of gazing at themselves in a  mirror
                and then indulging in self-pity. It is better to carry a field notebook and make
                notes on nature than to indulge in the habit of so many nervous people of making
                notes on their nervous symptoms. Nature field work further necessitates the
                patient's dressing in healthful and comfortable clothes and spending considerable
                time in the open air.
            

            
              DEPRESSING LITERATURE

              In this connection let me warn my nervous readers against suggestive literature of
                the pessimistic sort, particularly the sex-and-soul variety, and I think I also
                ought to advise against too much reading of medical works and books highly
                descriptive of nervous disorders. I am admonished even while writing this present
                book of the necessity of exercising great care that while I am helping one nervous
                sufferer, I do not contribute to the miseries of another.

              Wholesome wit, as well as works on travel and other branches of literature
                pertaining to science study, will all be found diverting and helpful.

              It is very necessary carefully to select and scrutinize the literature which is
                intended for the neurasthenic's consumption. It is even necessary personally to
                discriminate in this matter, as certain classes of reading which may be entirely
                beneficial to a large group of neurasthenes may not be at all suited to some
                particular individual; and, therefore, nervous patients should refrain from reading
                all sorts of books which depress, excite, or otherwise tend to increase their
                anxiety and nervousness.
            

            
              THE ANCIENT PHILOSOPHERS

              We must admit that many of the ancient philosophers had some very clear and helpful
                views along the lines we have under present consideration, and since there is a
                peculiar fascination for things which are old, whether they are old ruins or old
                authors, I find it very helpful to have my nervous patients who enjoy reading
                occasionally go through the writings of these old-time philosophers. It is
                diverting, fascinating, and there is so much that is genuinely helpful that it makes
                the research well worth while. As an example let me cite the following passages 
                
                  Commune with the Plants

                  Associate with the Birds

                  FIG. 18. THE CURATIVE POWER OF NATURE STUDY
                
                
                 from Marcus Aurelius, the old pagan philosopher,
                which the worrier should read often and remember long: 
                  Do not disturb thyself by thinking of the whole of thy life. Let not thy
                    thought at once embrace all the various troubles which thou mayest expect to
                    befall thee; but on every occasion ask thy-self, What is there in this which is
                    intolerable and past bearing? For thou will be ashamed to confess. In the next
                    place, remember that neither the future nor the past claim thee, but only the
                    present. But this is reduced to a very little if thou only circumscribest it and
                    chidest thy mind if it is unable to hold out against even this.
                

              Or, as the philosopher elsewhere says: 
                  Let not the future things disturb thee, for thou will come to them if it shall
                    become necessary, having with thee the same reason which now thou usest for
                    present things; for what need is there of suspicious fear, since it is in thy
                    power to inquire what ought to be done? And if this thou seest clear, go by this
                    way content, without turning back; but if thou dost not see clear, stop and take
                    the best of advisers. But if any other thing oppose thee, go on according to thy
                    powers with due consideration, keeping to that which appears to be just. For it
                    is best to reach this object, and, if thou dost fail, let thy failure be in
                    attempting this. He who follows reason in all things is both tranquil and active
                    at the same time, and also cheerful and collected.
                

              Marcus Aurelius also commented upon a phase of the nervous mind that is always
                pronounced-- the tendency to irritation at the unseemly conduct of others: 
                  When thou art offended with any man's seemless conduct immediately ask thyself,
                    Is it possible that shameless men should not be in the world? Let the same
                    consideration be present in thy mind as in the case of the knave and the
                    faithless man, and of every man who does wrong in any way.
                
            

            
              THE ROLE OF AMBITION

              While it is the over-ambitious who are so frequently the victims of nervous
                breakdowns, nevertheless, even though ambition may be a common cause of
                neurasthenia, I am forced to recognize that it is also many times the cure,
                especially in those mild and chronic cases which are of the hereditary or
                psychasthenic  sort. Regular and systematic courses of
                reading directed along the lines of the optimistic literature-- books on efficiency,
                social service, and other of the newer avenues of human activity, are all helpful in
                stimulating the confirmed neurasthene to bestir himself and make an effort to rise
                above his chronic depression. Literature of this sort is often able to supply some
                new incentive to action, to depict new realms for exploration and conquest.

              Books are an excellent companion for semi-neurasthenics, and are of great service
                in helping them to acquire an enlarged view-point of life, to broaden their mental
                horizon. A calm, dispassionate outlook upon the world is an essential part of mental
                hygiene, and so far from this attitude being impossible in our busy, workaday world,
                mental poise may be maintained even by the most strenuous, provided one keeps within
                the bounds of temperance, and limits his desires to those things which are easily
                obtained. The value of ambition is not to be discounted.

              But the ambition must not be for the conquest of impossible worlds. That ambition
                which has for its object the accumulation of material wealth and fame is bound to
                end in disappointment, for following the achievement of ambition, when it is too
                late to find new worlds to conquer, there comes always a blank. Back of the desire
                for money and fame should always be found the real ambitions of life, the
                cultivation of the things that belong to the spirit. Ambitions of this kind are
                never satisfied; the greatest satisfactions come of a growing mind and of new
                intellectual reactions to life, in a mind thus trained material failures being
                incapable of producing bitterness and disappointment.

              This fact explains how it comes about that men whose lives have been filled with
                intellectual interests grow old more gracefully and possess greater poise than they
                whose years have been filled with worry and thought for business or for the
                acquisition of fame.
            

            
              REGULARITY IN READING

              I find it best for the nervous patient to set aside regular periods for reflection,
                reading, and study. The early morning hours are in many ways preferable, were it not
                for the fact that  so many nervous patients do not
                feel as well in the morning as they do later on in the day. I therefore advise my
                nervous patients to set aside for their main study hour those portions of the day in
                which they feel possessed of the most mental energy. As a rule I think it is best
                for the really nervous sufferers not to read continuously over thirty minutes at one
                time, although there are patients who can read one-half day at a time without
                apparent hurt to their nerves. At any rate, systematic effort at mental culture,
                sober reading as well as diverting literature, should be indulged in according to
                the needs of each particular patient.

              It is surprising to see how much time people are willing to devote to some minor
                accomplishment and how little to the culture of mind-control and the development of
                one's real character. Young girls will be kept working for hours and hours
                practicing at the piano by parents who are highly solicitous that they become
                accomplished musicians, but seem to be little concerned whether or not they become
                proficient in mind-control and masters of the all-important science of character
                building.
            

            
              LIGHT LITERATURE

              In the nervous states we must recognize that the more recently developed and higher
                intellectual powers are the ones most easily fatigued; that the more philosophical,
                reasoning, and discriminating mind centers are those most largely out of commission.
                Therefore, in selecting a course of reading for the average neurasthenic,
                psychasthenic, or hysteric patient, it is necessary to bear these facts in mind and
                recognize the importance of choosing those books which do not so largely tax or so
                highly excite these newer, and hence more easily and highly fatigued, mind centers.
                In other words, neurasthenes enjoy best and are most greatly benefited by that
                literature of a light or juvenile order, simple stories, unexciting and non-morbid
                novels, tales of adventure and exploration when not too exciting, simple and popular
                science books, and optimistic and inspirational religious writings; in fact, all the
                literature that would be appropriate for, and enthusiastically enjoyed by, a child
                   from ten to fourteen will be found most suited to
                the first systematic reading course of the confirmed neurasthene; and from month to
                month and from year to year, the depth, scope, and philosophy of his reading may be
                broadened from time to time to meet his increasing powers of attention and psychic
                assimilation.

              The reader will no doubt expect me in this connection to recommend a list of books
                to be used for this purpose and such a list would no doubt be of some value, but I
                am forced to recognize that there would be so many good, useful, and appropriate
                books not in my list that I feel it would be an injustice to literature to make such
                a recommendation, and, further, I am beginning to recognize that the nervous patient
                needs this very experience of developing his initiative-- of finding out for himself
                what is best for him, suitable and helpful; in other words, it is with the "reading
                cure" like all other phases of treatment in neurasthenia-- it is the
                  patient who must be set in motion to work out his own cure. He must merely be
                provided with a medical compass which gives him his main therapeutic direction, and
                it is, to use a phrase of the street, "up to him" to find his way out of the jungle
                of "nerves" into the promised land of physical poise and mental self-mastery.
            

            
              MATHEMATICS AND POETRY

              At first thought it might seem strange to recommend simultaneously the study of
                mathematics and poetry as a part of the "reading cure" for the nervous states, but
                it will not seem strange when the motive for this prescription is explained.

              The study of mathematics-- phases adapted to the patient's mental state and
                previous education-- is a most excellent means of developing the memory, of
                increasing and strengthening the power of mental concentration, both of which are
                apparently decreased in the average nervous patient. Mathematics is an excellent
                memory developer, and when the neurasthene sees his memory improving, he is
                tremendously encouraged and enthusiastically throws himself into new efforts to gain
                the mastery of his nerves. Just as a suddenly failing memory is a great cause for
                discouragement to the average neurasthenic,  so the
                phenomenon of increasing or returning memory is a source of tremendous
                encouragement.

              Every neurotic individual needs to have a healing balm for his emotional, his
                sentimental, or, perchance, his artistic temperament, and this may be adequately
                supplied by the literature which has been handed down to our generation by the poets
                of the past. If the physician can find just the right sort of poetry for use in his
                "reading cure," it sometimes works like magic. I have not infrequently observed the
                neurasthenic patient in the midst of a week of great despondency and discouragement,
                come into the office some morning all brightened up and either verbally to quote or
                to place upon my desk an extract from some poem which he had run across just the day
                before, with this statement: "I have been getting worse and worse, Doctor, for a
                  week or ten days, until I ran across this bit of poetry yesterday and it just
                  cheered me right up-- I brightened right up and I have been feeling better ever
                  since."

              And so we can often achieve a double purpose in having our patients commit poetry
                to memory. The memory is strengthened, they are thereby cheered; the mind is
                distracted, they are therefore relieved from the horrors of self-contemplation,
                their sentiment and emotions are occupied and exercised and they are in that way
                relieved from the emotional isolation which is so highly detrimental to neurotic
                people.
            

            
              BIBLE STUDY

              Of all phases of the "reading cure" which have been attended with surprising
                results, I must first mention the systematic study of the Bible. Now, one must be
                careful in prescribing Bible study as part of the treatment of neurasthenia. Certain
                nervous, hyperconscientious and over-religious patients may be greatly harmed by
                having their minds altogether focused upon Bible study and the reading of religious
                literature. On the other hand, many nervous patients who are spiritually starved,
                mentally underfed, find great help and encouragement in the daily and systematic
                reading of the Bible. I am specially fond of recommending the Psalms, the Book of
                Job, the Prophet Isaiah, the Gospel of John, and the Epistles of St. Paul.

              

              I find it advisable in many cases definitely to recommend to these timid, fearful,
                and over-anxious patients, some definite passages from the Holy Writ which are
                peculiarly adapted to strengthening their faith and courage. Among those texts which
                I have most commonly used for this purpose, I cite the following 
                  EXCEEDING GREAT AND PRECIOUS PROMISES
                  But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God,
                    even to them that believe on his name.-- Jno. 1:12.
                  For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the
                    gift of God.-- Eph. 2:8.
                  He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso confesseth and forsaketh
                    them shall have mercy.-- Prov. 28:13.
                  He looketh upon men, and if any say, I have sinned, and perverted that which
                    was right, and it profited me not; he will deliver his soul from going into the
                    pit and his life shall see the light.-- Job 33:27, 28.
                  If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to
                    cleanse us from all unrighteousness.-- I. Jno. 1:9.
                  For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man
                    hath, and not according to that he hath not.-- II. Cor. 8:12.
                  In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If
                    any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink.-- Jno. 7:37.
                  All that the Father giveth me shall come to me; and him that cometh to me I
                    will in no wise cast out.-- Jno. 6:37.
                  But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with
                    another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.--
                      I. Jno. 1:7.
                  For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever
                    believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.-- Jno.
                      3:16.
                  The thief cometh not but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come
                    that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. I am the
                    good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.-- Jno.
                      10:10, 11.
                  Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be
                    revealed in the last time.-- I. Pet. 1:5.
                  I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that  is from the beginning. I have written unto you,
                    young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye
                    have overcome the wicked one.-- I. Jno. 2:14.
                  Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into
                    the kingdom of his dear Son.-- Col. 1:13.
                  He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might he increaseth
                    strength.-- Isa. 40:29.
                  And God is able to make all grace abound toward you; that ye, always having all
                    sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work.-- II. Cor.
                      9:8.
                  For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.
                    They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a
                    stone.-- Ps. 91:11, 12.
                  For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto
                    salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the
                    Greek.-- Rom. 1:16.
                  Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money;
                    come ye, buy and eat; Yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without
                    price.-- Isa. 55:1.
                  And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And
                    let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life
                    freely.-- Rev. 22:17.
                  Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress,
                    or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? As it is written,
                    For thy sake we are killed all the day long: we are accounted as sheep for the
                    slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that
                    loved us. For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor
                    principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height,
                    nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of
                    God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.-- Rom. 8:35-39.
                  May be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth, and length, and
                    depth, and height; And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that
                    ye might be filled with all the fulness of God.-- Eph. 3:18,
                    19.
                  I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.-- Phil.
                      4:13.
                  If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.-- Jno.
                      8:36.
                  But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by
                    Christ Jesus.-- Phil. 4:19.
                  
                  For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory
                    that overcometh the world, even our faith.-- I. Jno. 5:4.
                  Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that
                    followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.--
                      Jno. 8:12.
                  For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be
                    compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us.-- Rom.
                    8:18.
                  Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them to continue in the
                    faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of
                    God.-- Acts 14:22.
                  Behold, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the
                    door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.-- Rev.
                      3:20.
                  Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.--
                      Ps. 51:10.
                  Wait on the Lord: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart:
                    wait, I say, on the Lord.-- Ps. 27:14.
                  Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid: for the Lord
                    Jehovah is my strength and my song; he also is become my salvation.-- Isa.
                      12:2.
                  Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
                    Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart; and ye
                    shall find rest unto your souls.-- Matt. 11:28, 29.
                  Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give
                    I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.--
                      Jno. 14:27.
                  There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man: but God is
                    faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will
                    with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it.--
                      I. Cor. 10:13.
                  And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein
                    shall be forgiven their iniquity.-- Isa. 33:24.
                  Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon
                    thee.-- Isa. 60:1.
                
              
            

            
              DAILY READING PROGRAM

              As a sample of the "reading cure" as an auxiliary in the treatment of neurasthenia,
                I will here give a reading course  have just
                prescribed for a patient, a married woman, twenty-seven years of age, who had
                practically given up all reading for the past three years, and has been bedridden
                most of the time. I have given her the following course: 
                  
                    Monday:
                    9:30 A.M. Read first chapter in the Gospel of John.
                    2:00 P.M. Following noonday nap. Thirty minutes reading of favorite
                      novel.
                    7:30 P.M. Memory exercise. Commit to memory first twenty lines of
                      Hiawatha.
                  
                  
                    Tuesday:
                    9:30 A.M. Read second chapter in the Gospel of John.
                    2:00 P.M. Nature study. First three chapters of book on ants.
                    7:30 P.M. Memory exercise. Problems in mental arithmetic (under direction of
                      patient's husband).
                  
                  
                    Wednesday:
                    9:30 A.M. Read third chapter in Gospel of John.
                    2:00 P.M. Thirty minutes reading in popular Astronomy.
                    7:30 P.M. Memory exercise. Review, recite, and commit to memory twenty lines
                      more of Hiawatha.
                  
                
              

              This program will be kept up until the book of St. John is finished. Two times a
                week at the afternoon hour the reading will be left optional to be devoted to
                magazines, novels, or anything the patient may choose or happen to be interested in.
                The evening hour will be devoted continuously to the memory study exercises,
                alternating between mathematics and poetry. Of course, if the patient already knows
                Hiawatha, some other poem that has a fascinating jingle or rhyme could have been
                prescribed, such as Snowbound or Evangeline. These courses of reading must be
                carefully adapted to the mental and physical strength of the patients. Their tastes
                should also be consulted. I sometimes find it best to use prose instead of poetry in
                the case of men who always have prided themselves on the fact that they were not
                interested in poetry; and I have many times found that history is more interesting
                to some patients than even nature study. I choose to have the memory exercises
                practiced in the evening because of the fact that the 
                neurasthene's mind is usually strongest, most active and in best shape at the close
                of the day. I have further observed that these evening memory exercises produce a
                healthy sort of mental weariness, which, when not overdone, is a great aid in
                bringing about a good night's sleep.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Worry and anxiety cannot be driven out of the mind by mere resolution
                  or sheer force of will-power.

                 The study cure is a sort of substitution treatment-- an effort to
                  displace mischief-making complexes by wholesome and helpful thoughts acquired
                  through systematic reading.

                 Nature study represents one of the most highly beneficial methods of
                  carrying out the "reading cure" for nervousness.

                 The collecting craze is good for neurasthenia, and it matters little
                  whether one collects paintings, china, rugs, insects, flowers, or stamps.

                 Neurasthenics must be warned against both exciting and depressing
                  literature, particularly the sex-and-soul variety.

                 Nervous patients should be discouraged in the reading of medical
                  books, especially those medical works which are suggestive of diseases which the
                  neurasthene may readily imagine he has.

                 Wholesome wit and humor, together with works on travel and adventure
                  are all diverting and helpful.

                 The works of many of the ancient philosophers, like Marcus Aurelius,
                  are all useful in occupying and diverting the mind.

                 While overexertion may be a cause of neurasthenia, nevertheless,
                  well-directed and intelligent ambition is invariably an essential part of the
                  cure.

                 Books are a good companion for the neurasthenic. Regular and
                  systematic courses of "optimistic literature" are inspiring and stimulating to the
                  nervous patient.

                 Give attention to regularity in reading, set aside two or three
                  regular short study periods each day.

                 The "reading cure" should be practiced as a therapeutic recreation
                  and when overdone, is liable to become depressing and injurious.

                 The ideal literature for confirmed neurasthenics is that which would
                  be appreciated and enjoyed by youths from ten to fourteen years.

                 The "reading cure" aids in setting the patient in motion along the
                  lines of working out his own cure.

                 The study of some phase of mathematics-- mental arithmetic-- is an
                  excellent memory strengthener and developer.

                

                 Neurasthenes can both strengthen their memory and cheer themselves up
                  by the practice of committing to memory tuneful poems such as Hiawatha.

                 Daily reading of the Bible is very helpful to the majority of
                  neurotic patients. Special promises are particularly helpful.

                 Chronic worries will be especially benefited by the study of the
                  Psalms, Isaiah, John, and the writings of St. Paul.

                 In the practice of the "reading cure" it is necessary to set aside
                  two or three reading periods each day, and follow a carefully prepared
                  program.
              
            
          

          

            
            CHAPTER XXXIV THE REST OR PLAY CURE

            IN USING the term "work" in connection with the treatment of the
              nervous states, I desire to embrace the entire realm of productive human activities,
              mental, moral, physical, social, industrial, and political; while by the term "rest" I
              mean to cover the entire realm of physical, mental, and spiritual rest and recreation,
              even to include the realms of art-- the artistic pursuits. By "work," therefore, we
              refer to all regular, methodic, and taxing efforts on the part of the physical,
              mental, and spiritual powers; while by "rest" we refer to all modes of relaxation and
              relief from the tension of work, whether it be physical rest, mental diversion, or the
              combined rest and relief of all the individual's powers by means of recreation--
              common play.

            
              THE ISOLATION REST CURE

              In a former chapter, I have made note of the fact that I do not extensively employ
                the Weir Mitchell Rest Cure. There are many cases, however, in the beginning of
                treatment, which I do put upon a modified "rest cure" regime. I have found the rest
                cure for these patients to be highly successful if I can get a nurse on the job who
                understands something of psychotherapy and neurasthenic human nature. Otherwise I
                have come to regard the isolation of the "rest cure" as highly undesirable in the
                great majority of these cases.

              And even-when I do employ the old-fashioned rest cure (keeping the patient in bed,
                not allowing him, as it were, to lift a hand), I do not practice the overfeeding
                that was formerly employed. I feed these patients well, I even make sure to overfeed
                them a trifle, at least to provide from fifteen to twenty per cent excess of
                calories in their daily rations. As soon as I have accomplished the purpose of
                starting the patient on an  increase in weight, and
                resting the jaded nerves for a period of two to six weeks, I then gradually transfer
                the patient from the "rest cure" to one of the more profitable "work cures."
            

            
              THE WEEKLY REST DAY

              The average neurasthenic who is engaged in active work will do well to observe the
                weekly rest day, and, if possible, avail himself of a half holiday in the middle of
                the week. Concerning the value of a rest day, I can do no better than to quote a
                recent editorial in the Journal of the American Medical
                  Association:
                
                  The refreshing influence of the weekly recurring "day of rest" on a person
                    subjected to the strenuous routine of a busy life is a feature which he himself
                    can duly appreciate in terms of his "feelings" and "spirits." If it is desired
                    to demonstrate the need of such relaxation and the benefits derived therefrom in
                    some objective way, a method is not easily forthcoming. The problem is one
                    which, in its broadest aspects, has a far-reaching importance in every
                    community. The efficiency of the working man, the desirable length of the
                    working-day, the interjection of pauses for rest in the schedule of labor for
                    persons of different ages and stations in life-- questions of this sort are
                    constantly arising for solution by some plan which excludes purely subjective
                    impressions and permits some more scientific basis for a tenable judgment in the
                    matter. Not only in the field of manual labor, but also in innumerable other
                    walks of life, in the case of the schoolchild, the office boy, the factory girl,
                    the banker and the merchant, efficiency is the keynote of the times. Fatigue is
                    the enemy of efficiency; and to detect and compensate for or overcome it, is the
                    duty of those concerned with the promotion of human welfare.
                  In view of this it is of more than passing interest, from the standpoint of
                    both public and personal hygiene, to ascertain suitable methods of approach to
                    the problem of fatigue and the lessons which it discloses. Dr. Martin and some
                    of his associates in the Laboratory of Physiology at the Harvard Medical School
                    have devised a satisfactory procedure for estimating variations in
                    electrocutaneous sensibility in human beings. With the onset of general fatigue
                    a progressive rise occurs in the value of the threshold stimulus. This, in turn,
                    signifies a progressive lowering of sensitiveness, and, according to the view of
                    Grabfield and Martin, a  diminishing tone of the
                    nervous mechanism as a whole. The Harvard physiologists have made a long series
                    of experiments on first-year medical students in good health who were following
                    a regular routine of school work during six days of each week. The routine was
                    interrupted weekly by the Sunday recess, an interval occupied variously by the
                    students, but in no case in precisely the manner of the week days. The daily
                    observations made on these persons during several weeks show that at the
                    beginning of the week the irritability tends to be high, that from then until
                    the end of the week there is a fairly continuous decline in irritability, as
                    judged by the sensory threshold, and that following the interruption of the
                    routine by the intervention of Sunday, the irritability returns to the original
                    high point.
                  The decline in irritability is interpreted as a cumulative result of general
                    fatigue, incident to routine. What is even more significant, however, is the
                    added fact that a pronounced break in the routine-- such as the "day of rest"
                    occasions-- may bring about a return of sensitiveness to a high point or, in
                    other words, restores the nervous tone. Studies continued in this direction
                    should lead to some useful conclusions regarding the optimum of work, with
                    respect to both its duration and type, that should determine the conditions
                    under which the organism of man may be maintained without depletion.
                
            

            
              THE PLAY CURE

              And so while some bona fide nervous invalids may stand in real need of the
                so-called medical "rest cure," nevertheless it has been my experience that most of
                these neurotic, self-centered, downcast, and discouraged patients need to engage in
                short periods of work followed by free-hearted and enthusiastic outdoor play. It is
                the "play cure," when suitably adapted to the patient's physical strength and
                intellectual tastes, that is capable of yielding the greatest results in the cure of
                the nervous states.

              In the light of all that we have previously said in regard to the psychology of
                play, it must be evident that this is the one universal remedy to be employed in
                neurasthenia and hysteria; in fact, if there is one real sure cure for the nervous
                states, it is the scientific and sensible blending into one remedial regime of all
                the good that is contained in the "work cure" and the "play cure." (Fig. 19.)

              

              
                Fig. 19. Taking the Outdoor "Play Cure"
              

              

              

              Recreation and outdoor exercise are very useful in building up the patient's
                general health. One of the common causes of nervousness is the various infectious
                diseases, whose toxins lower the tone of the nervous system and greatly reduce the
                vital resistance. In the case of neurasthenics and others whose nerves are not
                hereditarily strong, emphasis should be laid on the necessity of building up a
                strong reserve force. The means to this end are the very measures which we have
                recommended in an earlier chapter-- baths, wholesome diet, the elimination of
                poisonous habits, a wholesome frame of mind, and physical exercise. It is important,
                too, that the patient get plenty of sleep. In attempting to do a hard day's work on
                a half night's sleep, one is drawing on his vital reserve force, and when this
                occurs day after day, with no opportunity to catch up, the nervous system is bound
                to break down. Especially is this true if the sleep is not sound-- and in most cases
                of nervousness, sleep is not sound. And here we find that "benevolent circles" are
                quite as possible of development as "vicious circles." For just as a weak condition
                of the nerves will produce sleeplessness, and sleeplessness in turn increases the
                symptoms, so, in the same way, an improved condition of the nerves, by the methods
                which we have already described, will make for sounder sleep, sleep in turn
                improving the condition of the nerves, and the process continuing in an increasing
                ratio until eventually the patient finds his nerve tone and equilibrium more or less
                fully and permanently restored.

              In beginning the fight for the conquest and cure of "nerves," the patient should
                remember that his "nerves" have become disordered not by a single act, but by a
                constant violation of the laws of health, extending in many cases over a period of
                years; and so the very best of curative rules are quite useless for a single
                application. In attempting to regain health, the neurotic must weary not in well
                doing; beneficial effects will very often appear only after several weeks or months
                of health sowing; sometimes the simple life must be continued for years before a
                permanent cure is effected. But we venture that one who persists in this right sort
                of living will find the increased pleasures which it brings ample compensation in
                themselves,  quite apart from the restoration of
                nerves, which in time, is bound to come.
            

            
              ART AND PLAY

              Art and play, as we understand them, have the same purpose and fulfill the same
                functions in the realms of health and therapeutics. Their purpose is to relax the
                nerves, relieve tension, refresh the mental powers, and, further, to divert and
                amuse the intellect while supplying only wholesome and uplifting themes of thought
                for subsequent contemplation.

              Work embraces those essential activities which make for the future, they have a
                purpose, an object; while play represents that whole-souled, unhampered expression
                of one's mind, body, and soul, which has no other object in the world than the
                comfort and satisfaction of this unhindered self-expression. Play has nothing to do
                with providing a livelihood, recreation has nothing to do with providing for future
                needs; even art may prove to be a cost to its devotee rather than a source of
                income, and when it does become a means of livelihood to the artist, then art, at
                least in some measure, has become work to such an individual-- sometimes hard and
                taxing work-- which causes him to seek other and minor arts as a means of
                recreation-- as his relaxing play.

              Of course, even in play there are the "rules of the game," and while we derive our
                greatest benefits from the fact that we allow our emotions and impulses to gamble
                about unhampered and gallop off at full pace, nevertheless, as members of civilized
                society, we find it incumbent upon us to play within the limits and "rules of the
                game"; within those limits which will afford us a maximum of relief from restraint
                and the greatest possible pleasures of play, with a minimum of interference with the
                same and equal rights of our fellow-beings.
            

            
              INARTISTIC PLAYING

              While all forms of play may be diverting and recreational in their influence, yet
                not all forms of play are uplifting and ennobling. There are the "scrappy plays,"
                those games and practices which young boys are liable to fall into when their  play is not organized and directed into more wholesome
                channels. They are diverting for the time being, but they are not satisfying in
                their final results upon the individual's mind and character. It is for lack of
                organization along better lines that "gangs" of boys prowl about committing acts of
                vandalism, torturing dumb animals, and committing various other depredations which
                represent the spirit of play manifesting itself in undirected and unsupervised
                channels.

              Adults in the same mood and for the same reasons become fidgety, nervous, twiddle
                their thumbs; while in other cases they resort to gambling and other forms of
                diversion which are able to hold the attention of the mind for the time being, but
                fail in the fulfillment of that great function of play which is not only to divert
                but to satisfy-- to ennoble-- and, further, to add to the sum total of one's stock
                of good nature, good humor, and good health.
            

            
              THE SUGGESTION ELEMENT IN PLAY

              One of the great elements in organized "rest" and orderly "play" is the incessant
                striving for a goal, the constant effort to attain new levels of proficiency and new
                heights of accomplishment. In the game our thought is ever on the victory we
                anticipate. We never allow our minds to linger on the defeat of yesterday. Again,
                the play-game affords us an opportunity of impersonating beings different from and
                greater than ourselves-- affords the opportunity of trying to do the thing as well
                as someone else has done it before us, encourages one even to hitch his wagon to a
                championship star and aspire to do it better than any other person has ever done
                it.

              Now, it is highly necessary for the neurotic patients to learn how to impersonate.
                They must know how mentally to transform their lives before they will ever have the
                pleasure of seeing these changes wrought out in their experience. There is a species
                of therapeutic hypocrisy which every nervous patient must learn to practice upon
                himself or herself. They must learn to say they are calm when they are highly
                agitated. They must learn to practice these gentle arts of deception upon
                themselves, practice along the line of that old theory that "by beholding  we become changed." It is good theology, it is good
                psychology, and in practice it proves to be good mental medicine. Pick out the kind
                of person you should be and then just get right down to business and make believe
                you are that very person-- impersonate that person's calmness, self-control, and
                nervous equilibrium-- and, little by little, you will be surprised to find that you
                are growing into the similitude and likeness of the thing you have persistently
                impersonated.

              Not long since I had a well-known actor call upon me. I had not seen him for three
                and one-half years, and when last I had seen him, he consulted me because he was on
                the "verge of a nervous breakdown,"-- about to "go to pieces." At that time I gave
                him the best advice I could, among which was the following: "Since you are an
                  actor, why not try to impersonate some cool-mannered, well-controlled character of
                  history or literature and see if in this way you cannot utilize your histrionic
                  abilities for some valuable therapeutic purpose." Now, this idea seemed to
                take hold of his mind, and he promised me with his farewell handshake that he would
                try-- and try hard-- to carry out my advice; and at the time of his recent visit he
                reported to me that he found the method of some value and practiced it for a year,
                but was still very nervous and restless; but that the part assigned him in his play
                of the following year was just such a character just such a calm, composed,
                methodical, and beautifully controlled individual-- and he now testifies that the
                acting of this part through a single season has almost entirely cured him, that he
                succeeded in so losing himself while impersonating this character that he has been
                able to carry the virtues of his role off the stage and use them in his every day
                life. In other words, he acted the part so well that he carried it off the stage
                with him, he lived the impersonated life so effectively that it became a part of
                him; yes, indeed, it became himself and thus his neurasthenia and nervousness were
                practically cured. And so all neurasthenics may begin today to prove themselves
                marvelous actors and actresses, and, within a few short months, be able so to
                transform their lives as quite fully to meet their patterns and ideals. I think the
                next great move in the cure of neurasthenia will be to establish  a therapeutic school of acting. In the meantime each
                patient will have to establish his own studio and choose his own character.
            

            
              THE ART OF GOOD NATURE

              Many a nervous patient will do well to cultivate the simple art of being good
                natured, for we must recognize that to many neurotics good humor is a lost art. This
                is one of the arts that can be cultivated at home and without expense. This sort of
                "schooling" does not involve ocean voyages and long sojourns abroad in Paris or
                Berlin. You can learn how to be good natured right at home. Someone has defined a
                good natured person as one who is "easy to please and hard to sour." Practice being
                content while cheerfully playing your role in life, and be just as well satisfied
                with a good natured minor part in the sociological cast. Be just as happy as if you
                were acting a part in the center of the stage. The ever present smile is the badge,
                the trade mark, of good nature and good humor.

              It is about time we reached the place in our modern civilization where one can be
                self-conscious and yet happy, where one can think and yet be natural and normal. It
                is the effort to avoid thinking and stifle self-consciousness that characterizes
                much of the oriental, and even some of the occidental music and other theatric
                accompaniments of so-called art. The diverting and quieting effect of some music is
                really of this order, for it is a well-known psychological fact that any well marked
                and monotonous rhythm containing but a minimum of melody has a tendency to slow down
                the mental processes and favor sleep. This is true of the ticking of a clock, the
                humming or buzzing of an insect, or the regular and rhythmic clank, clank, of the
                sleeping-car wheels as they pass over the rail joints.

              I have sometimes thought that good humor was merely the highest attainment of good
                manners. It certainly is of great value in the fight against neurasthenia to,
                cultivate the habit of being extraordinarily and unusually polite to one's
                associates, friends, employees, etc. A grouch seems to push a neurasthenic down
                hill, but good etiquette seems to help him upward.

              

              I knew a patient several years ago who was suffering from an incurable illness, who
                was confined constantly to her bed, but she was seldom alone, as the entire
                neighborhood sought her company, she was so cheering in her conversation, so bright
                and pleasant. Her face always wore a smile, and when one pauses to consider that she
                was seldom free from pain it was a revelation-- a demonstration-- of the fact that
                the human mind can indeed control and override the moods and sufferings of the
                physical body. One day I asked her this question: "Mrs. V., how is it that you
                  can be so happy at all times, so cheerful and inspiring to your callers, when, as
                  a physician, I know you are suffering constant pain, and when I further know that
                  you know you are afflicted with an incurable disease, and that you can only live a
                  few years at most, and that your pain will last to the end?" And this was her
                reply: "I remember, Doctor, when I was a little girl I used to carry flowers to a
                  kind old lady who must have been afflicted much as I am now, and I came to look
                  upon her as the best friend I had in the world outside of my mother. I can never
                  forget her kind advice, the willingness with which she gave attention to my every
                  little sorrow and trouble. I can see her face beaming now. I never saw her without
                  a smile, and so, Doctor, when the awful verdict was reached in my case, I spent
                  just two days and two nights in despondency and despair. Then I decided that my
                  last years should be my best and I have simply been impersonating the memories
                  which I held of this kind-faced old lady of my childhood days, and I only trust
                  that I have been successful in my effort-- that in a measure I have succeeded in
                  living over again to the world her life as she so beautifully lived it forty years
                  ago."

              And that is just what I mean by acting-- impersonating-- on the part of
                neurasthenics. Let the neurotic patient bring forth from the halls of memory, or
                from the creative realms of his own imagination, the picture of the character he
                should be, and would like to be, and then calmly and coolly take up the program of
                acting it out day by day, and ere long, sooner or later, he will in real experience
                actually achieve more or less of the desirable qualities which pertain to the
                character he has chosen.
            

            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 The old fashioned "rest cure" for nervousness consisted in complete
                  rest, isolation, over-feeding, massage, etc., and is useful only in certain severe
                  and select cases.

                 The more modern "rest cure" avoids isolation and over-feeding,
                  substituting therefor physical remedies, together with recreation and play.

                 The weekly rest day -diversion from week-day employment-- as well as a
                  mid-week half holiday are all highly useful in the cure of neurotic
                  workers.

                 Recent methods of precision demonstrate that a rest day or a day of
                  change in one's work, definitely increases the nerve tone and elevates the vital
                  resistance.

                 The "play cure"-- free-hearted, spontaneous, and enthusiastic outdoor
                  recreation-- yields unexpected results in the treatment of the nervous
                  states.

                 The "play cure" is most highly efficient when employed in proper and
                  alternate cycles with the "work cure." It is the "work-play" regime that
                  constitutes the real "cure."

                 Persistent and progressive efforts at both outdoor work and outdoor
                  play are inevitably followed by beneficient results.

                 While certain "vicious circles" operate to make neurotics worse, there
                  are also "benevolent circles" in which faith and hope and joy, combined with work
                  and play, operate to hasten the patient's recovery.

                 Art and play have the same functions in mental therapeutics, that is
                  to relax, relieve tension, to divert, rest and refresh the mind and nerves.

                 Play in contrast with work, embraces those whole-souled and
                  unhampered activities of mind and body which have no other object than the
                  satisfaction of unfettered self-expression.

                 Even play has its "rules of the game," and "scrappy plays are those
                  lawless activities indulged in by the young when their instincts are not organized
                  and not better directed.

                 "Gambling" and other vicious forms of diversion represent the
                  "scrappy" play of the adult whose diversions have become sordid and whose
                  recreation is misdirected.

                 Play affords almost unlimited opportunities for suggestion and
                  impersonation, and impersonating is one of the secrets of the cure of
                  nervousness.

                 A neurasthenic actor impersonated a character of sound nerves and
                  self-controlled demeanor for a single season and found himself practically
                  cured.

                 Nervous patients should cultivate the simple art of being good
                  natured. Practice contentment while cheerfully playing your rle of life.

                

                 Cultivate smiling-- it is the unmistakable badge of good nature and
                  good humor, and these are powerful remedies in nervousness.

                 Good humor is the highest attainment of good manners. A grouch pushes
                  you down hill but good etiquette helps you in the upward climb.

                 When you play be happy, "cut loose," throw your whole soul into the
                  enjoyment of your recreation.
              
            
          

          

            
            CHAPTER XXXV THE WORK OR OCCUPATION
              CURE
            
              IDLE neurasthenics must be set to work at some regular task of
              employment-- they must be occupied with some sort of productive effort-- which will
              sufficiently occupy the intellect to enable them to "keep their minds off their own
              thoughts and feelings." "Get busy," is the therapeutic slogan for neurotics; only,
              they must not overdo the "work cure," they must adjust their occupational activities
              to their strength, experience, taste, and temperament; and when this can be done,
              immediate improvement will almost invariably reward the practice of occupational
              therapeutics.

            
              THE CURATIVE VALUE OF EXERTION

              Enthusiastic, whole-hearted work-- intelligent exertion in some line of productive
                effort-- some useful employment which will reward the toiler and add something to
                the value of the sum of the world's work, will prove to be the therapeutic salvation
                of the average neurotic. When we can find a man who is adapted to his work and his
                work is within his range, then it is that work comes well-nigh being play. If one's
                mental or physical work could be carried forward minus all of this nervous tension
                and anxious stress, it would be found that our daily exertions are not one-half as
                wearing and tearing as we commonly imagine. (Fig. 20.) One of the great causes of over-fatigue and subsequent
                nervous breakdown is dissatisfaction and discontent with one's daily task. This is
                shown by the fact that when one's interest and enthusiasm are enlisted and aroused,
                it is possible to carry on arduous tasks involving long hours and sometimes in
                violation of every known principle of hygiene, possibly involving even conscious
                suffering, and, because of the keen mental interest in the effort, all this is  accomplished without observing any apparent undesirable
                results, on either the general health or that of the nervous system. In fact, there
                are many nervous workers who complain of their hard work and their long hours in
                utter ignorance of the fact that if their work were made easier and their hours
                shorter, unless they immediately acquired other and more preoccupying pursuits, they
                would soon discover that these changes instead of being for the better, as regards
                the health of their nervous systems, were decidedly for the worse.

              One of the great institutional needs of this generation is sanitariums where, in
                addition to all of the ordinarily employed physical methods-- in addition to a good
                psychotherapeutic regime-- the patient shall be set to work in the fields, in the
                shop, and at the arts and crafts. I mean real work-- not purposeless gymnasium
                stunts. This work should be performed under competent instructors so that the
                products of their therapeutic efforts would be salable, and the fact that they were
                engaged in making something that could be sold in the open market, and, the further
                fact, that this money would be paid to them personally, would constitute the chief
                charm and remedial value of such "work cures."
            

            
              WORK AS A WORRY CURE

              Work is the one great cure for worry, and if the neurasthenic can get started at
                some task without making the disheartening mistake of overdoing at first, then after
                a few experiences with the work-rest cycle-- after a few tastes of the blessed
                reward that inevitably follows interested toil-- he will fall in love with
                employment and will rejoice in his new found deliverance from inaction and
                ennui.

              Have you ever gone among the unemployed at the time of a strike-- when thousands of
                men were suddenly thrown out of employment? If you have and looked at things from
                the doctor's standpoint, you have watched men grow restless and sick. You have
                observed them chafing and suffering under the gall of sheer inaction. I have cured
                any number of nervous and restless people by setting them to work. There is nothing
                like work for the blues, for those neurotic idlers whose entire 
                
                  The Outdoor "Work Cure"

                  Gardening for the Nerves

                  FIG. 20. PRACTICING THE "WORK CURE"
                
                
                 time is spent in self-contemplation. There are a lot
                of well-to-do women who could do much toward improving both their health and their
                happiness if they would enlist in club work, turn suffragette, or in any other way
                occupy their energies in some line of endeavor which would relieve them from the
                terrible burden of that never-ending thought of self and self-pleasure.

              The thinking power and possibilities of the human brain, which should ever be
                directed out into new realms of creative labor, into new paths and new fields,
                sooner or later comes to circle round and round within itself until the brain
                becomes dizzy and the mind intoxicated with its own inherent self-thought and
                self-pity.
            

            
              THE IDLE RICH

              Of all classes of neurotics, the most difficult to treat and cure are the
                neurasthenic, hysteric, and dipsomaniac who belong to the idle wealthy classes. I
                have under my care at the present time a young man of a well-to-do family who has
                been "put through college," during the course of which he acquired the drink habit,
                and now his father, a successful business man, has become utterly disgusted with
                this, his eldest son, and refuses to give him money to start in business, and so the
                young fellow has started out on a program of "killing time." In this he is fairly
                successful and is also accomplishing something toward killing off himself, as he is
                becoming a first-class nervous wreck, a confirmed periodical drinker. Both his
                mother and eldest sister never cease to importune me to do something for their son
                and brother, and I am forced again and again to tell them that they are unaware of
                the difficulties of the task they are asking me to perform. To cure this boy would
                mean to create a new relationship in his family-- a new relationship between himself
                and his father. It would further mean that this boy must be taught to work, to earn
                his own living, it would mean that his social viewpoint of life must be entirely
                changed, that he must recognize the necessity of abandoning his parasitic career and
                become one of the world's workers-- a bona-fide producer. It would further mean that
                he must be  educated out of his self-pity, and his
                ideas of self-importance-- exaggerated ego. It would mean that he must be given an
                interest in life and trained into the joys of well-earned rest-- that satisfaction
                that accompanies the rest which follows productive toil, whether it be of the mental
                or physical sort.

              And so we are constantly besought by people who want us to cure their neurasthenia
                or remove their ennui, much of which is due to idleness, indulgence, and inactivity.
                It is certain that such neurasthenics as these are not in need of the conventional
                "rest cure." It is the "work cure" in its largest sense that is needed to bring
                about their relief from the corroding rust of idleness, indolence, worry, and ennui.
                The physician who sees many nervous patients comes to look upon both wealth and
                poverty as a curse to the race. The iron heel of poverty grinds down the poor until
                their nerves are worn to a frazzle, while the luxuries of wealth lead up to that
                idleness and ennui from which it is almost impossible to effect a therapeutic
                rescue.
            

            
              INDUSTRIAL SLAVERY

              While we can have little admiration for the type of idle human being who lives on
                breadfruit, cocoanuts, and bananas off on some tropical isle, while such a life is
                hardly conducive to the development of character and the acquirement of strong
                mentality, nevertheless, we must recognize, on the other side, that the tension of
                modern industry with its "speeding up" tendency is exceedingly ruinous to the
                nervous system. Especially are the brain and nerve centers of more recent training
                and education over-taxed and over-worked. Normal work-- reasonable hardship and
                average responsibility-- should be borne by the average human nervous system without
                evidencing any special stress or strain; but the modern pressure in many lines of
                industry partakes so largely of the nature of "being driven," that-- to the mind and
                nervous system-- these strenuous efforts come to be regarded as a form of
                occupational slavery, and it is the resultant restlessness and resentment that is
                responsible for so much of this premature breaking down of the hereditarily
                predisposed nervous system.  On the other hand, when
                there is a keen personal interest in one's work, when there is a worthy prize to
                obtain or desirable goal to reach, then the patient is able to stand an extra amount
                of work without a breakdown. It makes little difference whether it is head work or
                hand work; so far as that is concerned, he is equally exposed to the danger of
                nervous breakdown, and is equally lightened by joy and keen personal
                satisfaction.

              The same amount of exertion and stress and strain that will cause a nervous
                breakdown in a patient working for a meager salary, I have observed, will not result
                in the same disaster when the worker is better paid. When the reward-- the wage-- is
                adequate and attractive the neurotic worker bears the strain of effort much more
                gracefully and for a longer time. While money is in no wise a measure of the value
                of one's work, nevertheless, as long as it stands as the medium of exchange in this
                world, it seems to have a wonderful tonic effect upon the wage earner to have his
                salary increased. At least, I have found out that when I try to get neurasthenics to
                work just for the sake of exercise, I have little success in arousing their
                enthusiasm. They do not take kindly to dumb-bells, wands, and chest weights. The
                gymnasium treadmill is a figurative one as well as a literal one, but if I can get
                this same neurasthenic patient sanely interested in lucrative work, he sometimes
                forgets the exertion required in the efforts he puts forth, while he is cheered on
                in anticipation of the reward he is to receive.
            

            
              A GOOD JOB DEFINED

              There are a number of things which are essential to a good job from the standpoint
                of the "work cure." I think Dr. Cabot has given us about the best definition of the
                essentials of employment from the standpoint of curing nervousness. He says that a
                good job should have or provide the following seven essentials.

              (1) Difficulty and crudeness enough to call out our latent powers of mastery. (2)
                Variety so balanced by monotony as to suit the individual's needs. (3) A boss. (4) A
                chance to achieve, to build something and to recognize what we have done. (5) A
                title and a  place which is ours. (6) Connection with
                some institution, some firm or some cause, which we can loyally serve. (7) Honorable
                and pleasant relation with our comrades in work. Fulfill these conditions and work
                is one of the best things in life. Let me describe them more fully.

              We want a chance to subdue. Boys like to go stamping through the
                woods in thick-soled boots. They like to crush the sticks in their path and to jerk
                off the branches that get in their way. If there is need to clear a path, so much
                the better; the pioneer's instinct is the more strongly aroused. For there is in
                most of us an ancient hunger to subdue the chances which we meet, to tame what is
                wild. As another's anger calls out ours, so the stubbornness of nature rouses our
                determination to subdue it. We want to encounter the rough and crude. Before the
                commercial age, war, hunting, and agriculture gave us this foil. We want it still,
                and for the lack of it often find our work too soft.

              We want both monotony and variety. The monotony of work is
                perhaps the quality of which we most often complain-- often justifiably. Yet
                monotony is really demanded by almost everyone. Even children cry for it, though in
                doses smaller than those that suit their elders. Your secretary does not like her
                work if you put more than her regular portion of variety into it. She does not want
                to be constantly undertaking new tasks, adapting herself to new situations. She
                wants some regularity in her traveling, some plain stretches in which she can get up
                speed and feel quantity of accomplishment; that is, she wants a reasonable amount of
                monotony.

              We want a boss, especially in heavy or monotonous work. Most
                monotonous work is of the sort that is cut out and supplied ready to hand. This
                implies that someone else plans and directs it. If we are to do the pulling, someone
                else should hold the reins. When I am digging my wife's garden beds, I want her to
                specify where they shall go. We all want a master of some kind, and most of us want
                a master in human shape. The more manual our work is, the more we want him. Boatmen
                poling a scow through a creek need someone to steer and to tell them which should
                push harder as they turn the bend of the stream.

              We want to see the product of our work. The bridge we plan the
                house we build, the shoes we cobble, help us to get before  ourselves and so to realize more than a moment's worth of life and
                effort. The impermanence of each instant's thought, transience of every flush of
                effort, tends to make our lives seem shadowy even to ourselves.

              We want a handle to our name. Every one has a right to the
                distinction which titles of nobility are meant to give, but it is from our work that
                we should get them. The grocer, the trapper, the night-watchman, the cook, is a
                person fit to be recognized, both by his own timid self and by the rest of the
                world. In time the title of our job comes to stand for us, to enlarge our
                personality and to give us permanence. Thus it supplements the standing which is
                given us by our product. To "hold down a job" gives us a place in the world,
                something approaching the home for which in some form or other everyone longs. "Have
                you any place for me?" we ask with eagerness; for until we find "a place" we are
                tramps, men without a country.

              Loyalty to association. And though our work and our science are
                symbolic, as I believe, of an eternal and glorious destiny, they are literally very
                inglorious and insignificant. Only their intention, only the vision that creates and
                sustains them is great. Our work is the best we know, and in it as in a ship we have
                embarked with our treasures; but still it is human-made, and bears the impress of
                our limitations. Work seen literally is a misfit, and now and then our tired eyes
                see it so; then it looks like a curse. We should spurn it but for a voice within us
                which rebukes literalism and calls it a lie. That voice is loyalty.

              Loyalty is a force that holds a man to his job even in the moments when he hates it
                and sees no significance in it. When this kind of blindness falls upon us loyalty
                supplies a new method of guidance towards the substance of things not seen. Like all
                faith, it holds to the visible framework of daily labor by grim or by smiling
                determination. It bids us to be prompt at the office, to answer all letters at once,
                to look as brisk and interested as we can, till the mood passes and the familiar
                objects and occupations resume their halos.

              We want congeniality with our fellow-workmen. One of the few
                non-physical "points" which people have already learned to look for in selecting
                work is the temper and character of the "boss." Men, and especially women, care
                almost as much about this as about the hours and wages of the job. Young physicians
                will work  in a laboratory at starvation wages for the
                sake of being near a great teacher, even though he rarely notices them. The
                congeniality of fellow-workmen is almost as important as the temper of the boss. Two
                unfriendly stenographers in a single room will often give up their work and take
                lower wages somewhere else in order to escape each other.
            

            
              THE DELIVERANCE OF WORK

              As an instance of the saving grace of employment and the curative power of work,
                let me cite the following: Miss D. was upward of thirty years of age, she was
                well-educated, had traveled much, and had been more or less of a neurasthenic all
                her life. In her case, matters had gone from bad to worse until she had
                unfortunately been led into certain highly reprehensible practices; and so after
                religion and everything else had failed, even in the face of a threatened nervous
                collapse, we advised this patient that the only hope of recovery lay along the lines
                of the "work cure."

              I never became alarmed with reference to the final recovery of this patient until
                there was a threatened loss of interest in work and then I became thoroughly
                aroused. This danger I discerned in a letter brought by a messenger to my office one
                morning, an extract from which I quote: 
                  Dear Dr.: As usual I am lying here awake at three A.M. I slept until nearly
                    three o'clock, probably about four and a half hours from the time I fell asleep.
                    Now is the awfulest time of my night and I am writing to tell you something
                    which I did not dwell on yesterday and which is of vital importance, the loss of interest in my work.
                  Thus far I have managed to conduct my work with apparent enthusiasm, but I am
                    losing ambition. I can't become absorbed in the necessary preparation for some
                    new duties. I am so terribly fatigued and depressed. My mind is possessed with
                    the thought of loss and disappointment. But the loss of interest in my work
                    alarms me. What can rescue me from sorrow and corroding worry, futile regrets
                    and unutterable longings impossible to satisfy, if it is not work? The person
                    who truly loves some work is absorbed by it, and has the energy to do it in his
                    best manner, always has something to keep him sane. The work I am doing now is
                    not holding me as it should. I need work that could absorb me. I  need surroundings that would tranquilize my
                    spirits. I need the constant influence of true Christians. I need to forget what
                    is unwholesome. My spirit is broken. Every day finds me less prepared to do my
                    share of the world's work, the greater tragedy because the world needs faithful
                    work and I need the satisfaction which comes from giving the world what it
                    needs. Oh, for a position in some quiet beautiful spot where I could have fresh
                    air and sunshine and Christian influence of the right sort.
                  Work, work, a work to absorb my mind, my heart! To make me forget what has
                    never brought anything but loss and sorrow. Oh, to know what to do! I am
                    fatigued beyond all reason, more tired in the morning than in the evening. Now,
                    however, I feel tired all the time. I am going to close. Perhaps this effort to
                    show what my attitude toward the importance of true interest in sane work is,
                    will give you another useful glimpse into my character. But remember, at present
                    work fails to help and I shirk it.
                

              And this patient was by no means mistaken. Her salvation from a medical standpoint,
                was all bound up in work. In this case we were able to persuade the patient to keep
                at work, to fight through the battle and win the victory by sticking to her task.
                Wearing as it was on her nerves, to continue working in such a state of mind and
                body, nevertheless, the influence of this wear and tear was nothing compared to the
                sorrow and regret-- the sense of defeat-- that would have followed the giving up of
                work.
            

            
              THE WALKING CURE

              Walking is a great aid in the management of nervousness. It improves the
                circulation, not to mention the digestion. It helps the neurasthenic to sweep away
                his mental cobwebs. I have found walking especially helpful in case it can be
                carried on in groups-- in congenial company; but in the lesser forms of
                neurasthenia, even the lone cross country walk is found diverting, if it can be
                indulged in in the spirit of James Whitcomb Riley's "A Country Pathway." 
                  
                    I come upon it suddenly, alone--
                    A little pathway winding in the weeds
                    That fringe the roadside; and with dreams my own,
                    I wander as it leads.
                  
                  
                  
                    Full wistfully along the slender way,
                    Through summer tan of freckled shade and shine,
                    I take the path that leads me as it may--
                    Its every choice is mine.
                  
                  
                    And though it needs must lure me mile on mile
                    Out of the public highway, still I go,
                    My thoughts, far in advance in Indian-file,
                    Allure me even so.
                  
                
              

              The daily ride to and from work may in many cases be changed with profit to a daily
                walk. There are few men and women who are leaving home in the morning for office, or
                in the evening from the office for home, who could not do twenty to forty city
                blocks with the utmost ease and with the use of very little more time than is
                consumed in waiting on the corner for street cars, and in the slow journey of the
                trolley through traffic-crowded streets.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 Every neurasthenic must have sufficient interesting and productive
                  work to enable him to keep his mind off his own thoughts and feelings.

                 Enthusiastic, whole-hearted work-- intelligent exertion in some useful
                  and interesting line-- will prove the therapeutic salvation of the average
                  neurasthenic.

                 A keen interest coupled with spontaneous enthusiasm does much to
                  overcome the weariness of drudgery and the fatigue of routine labor.

                 While many neurotics complain of their arduous tasks, nevertheless,
                  even taxing effort is better for their nerves than inaction and idleness.

                 One of the great institutional needs of this day is a sanitarium
                  where, in addition to physiological therapeutics and psychotherapy, the patients
                  shall be employed in productive manual labor.

                 Work is the one great cure for worry. The sweet deliverance from
                  inaction and ennui is to fall in love with useful labor.

                 When the creative power of the human mind is not utilized in
                  productive fields, it circles round and round within itself-- forms mental short
                  circuits.

                 Of all classes of neurotics the most difficult to cure are the
                  neurasthenic, hysteric, and dipsomaniacs who belong to the idle wealthy
                  classes.

                

                 While pleasant and useful work is a part of the cure for many forms of
                  nervousness; on the other hand, industrial slavery must not be regarded in such a
                  favorable light.

                 The stress and strain that produces nervous collapse in the underpaid
                  worker is borne with comparative ease when the salary is large and the reward
                  attractive.

                 A good job is defined as employment which affords opportunity for
                  conquest, provides variety, together with pleasant associations, and promises a
                  satisfactory reward.

                 Neurasthenics should be given something to subdue-- in addition to,
                  and separate and apart from the conquest of their nerves.

                 It is good for neurotics to go out in the woods, provide food with
                  their own hands, and cook it on the end of a stick.

                 In the practice of the "work cure" for neurasthenia, employment must
                  be provided which will afford both monotony and variety.

                 Neurasthenics need a boss. They need to have some one everlastingly
                  on the job of directing their cure.

                 Nervous patients must be able to see the results of their efforts--
                  they must feel that they are "holding down a job."

                 Loyalty to human associations and congeniality with one's fellows are
                  both exceedingly helpful in overcoming the nervous states.

                 Work-- even at the cost of severe nervous strain-- has delivered many
                  a patient from a life of nervous semi-invalidism.

                 The "walking cure" is a valuable aid in the treatment of
                  neurasthenics of sedentary habits.
              
            
          

          
            
            CHAPTER XXXVI THE SOCIAL SERVICE CURE

            IN OUR study of the psychology of work and play and recreation, we
              endeavored to show the reader that it was necessary for nervous patients to develop
              some absorbing interest outside of themselves-- to get their minds off themselves and
              onto something else-- and there is nothing in all the wide world upon which such
              nervous patients may place their minds with such safety and satisfaction as their own
              fellow-men. There is nothing with which they may occupy their attention which can
              compare with "social service," that interesting and fascinating labor in behalf of
              one's fellow-beings. Unselfish work for others is the best known means of
              therapeutically occupying and diverting the mind of the nervous patient.

            
              TOLERANCE AND INDULGENCE

              Nervous people must train themselves to become more tolerant of other people's
                opinions. It helps us in overcoming our own petty whims if we can train ourselves to
                become indulgent of the whimsical conduct of our friends and fellow-workers.
                Intolerance lies at the root of much of the domestic, social, and commercial
                friction which only serves to add to the worries and anxieties of so many neurotic
                sufferers. If we could only be more charitable and tolerant toward our associates,
                we would not be so annoyed and put out by those little features of their lives which
                are at variance with our standards and tastes. When our friends annoy us, we should
                be wise enough frankly to forgive them, if for no other reason than to preserve our
                own peace and tranquility of mind. The one who bears a grudge or carries a grievance
                is the one who is most hampered and injured by this uncharitable and unsocial
                attitude.

              Of course, we have to be infinitely patient with these fretful,  nervous individuals in the early stages of their
                treatment. It does little good to scold or reproach them. We have rather to
                encourage and cheer them on, recognizing that they are not guilty of deliberate,
                willful ill humor. I think I sometimes look upon these unruly nervous patients with
                their uncontrolled temper and emotions, as a mother would upon a tired, irritable,
                and half sick child; and I am quite sure that this wise and loving mother would
                probably account for the child's temper and bad humor by explaining that it had had
                insufficient sleep and then quietly undress and put the little fellow to bed.
            

            
              THE CHEERING-UP BUSINESS

              If you want to get over the blues in a hurry, you just get right down to work and
                enlist in the "cheering-up" business. Begin the moment you are up and dressed in the
                morning, and from that moment until you are tucked away in bed at night, make it the
                one object of your existence to cheer up anybody and everybody you meet. Blow into
                the dining-room at breakfast time with a pleasant and hearty greeting for everyone.
                Of course, it may be a severe shock to your loved ones to note this sudden change in
                demeanor, but be assured they will survive the shock, and after a few mornings they
                will grow quite accustomed to your wearing a pleasant smile and handing out cheery
                "good mornings"; and then, if you are of the proletariats and ride down town on the
                street car, when the back platform gets over-crowded and the conductor grouchy, keep
                everybody cheered up; try and accost the conductor when you board the car in such a
                way that he will absorb enough good cheer from you to last him until he gets down
                town. Give the stenographer and bookkeeper at the office a refreshing surprise by
                the cheery manner in which you come in, or, perchance, if you are a housewife, let
                the children and servants be astonished at your unexpected good cheer; and, whether
                you are rich or poor, whether you are employee or employer, remember that this good
                humor will help to cheer the world along and to cure your neurasthenia, remedy your
                grouch, relieve your aches and pains, comfort your sorrows. Just play the rle of
                the social hypocrite and make every one believe you are the happiest man or  the happiest woman in the world. Be like Polly Ann of
                the, Glad Book fame, and see if you cannot find a few things in
                your life worth being thankful for.

              Good cheer, laughter, and light-heartedness seems to be of real value in the
                treatment of the nervous states; they seem to relieve the attention spasm, they
                serve the purpose of getting your mind off yourself for a moment, and it is easier,
                after a mental recess of this sort, to get the mind started along more wholesome and
                helpful lines.

              Cultivate the society of children and good humored adults. I have advised many of
                my lonely, selfish, and nervous patients to adopt a bright-faced baby into the home.
                They are usually able to make enough trouble to enable the average neurasthenic to
                get her mind off herself for a while.
            

            
              GOOD SAMARITAN WORK

              Those nervous patients who are wealthy or well-to-do, who have abundance of this
                world's goods and are able to enjoy every comfort of life, will do a great deal to
                cheer themselves up and forget their troubles if they will let themselves get
                interested in their less fortunate fellows-- their washerwoman, janitor,
                scrub-women, servants, and clerks. It will do them good to put on some commonplace
                clothing and go down into the slums and see how the other half has to live.

              If you would be successful in completely and finally over-coming worry, do
                something helpful for your neighbor now and then. Remember the Golden Rule. Do not
                allow your own artificial needs to accumulate unnecessarily and demand all your
                time. Reserve a little energy for Good-Samaritan work, and you will finish the day's
                tasks refreshed and satisfied instead of hungry, thirsty, and dissatisfied; and in
                doing Good-Samaritan work let us do some real preventive work-- real social service.
                It is a grand and glorious thing to pick up the man wounded by thieves on the road
                down to Jericho, but it would be a grander and more glorious service to police the
                Jericho road so efficiently as to render it forever and entirely safe for men,
                women, and children to travel it by day or by night.

              

              
                The Streets and Alleys are the Playgrounds of the Slums

                A Modern City Playground

                FIG. 21. GIVE THE CHILDREN A CHANCE TO PLAY
              

              
              

              To sum up: All chronic worriers should see to it that they have these three things:
                  
                   Active mental and physical employment; in other words, a good
                    job.
                   They should have regular and healthful recreation; in other words, a
                    good fad.
                   They should have suitable and regular spiritual nourishment; in
                    other words, a good religion.
                
            

            
              THE SOCIAL SURVEY

              Turn missionary to the other nervous people of your kind, organize a committee of
                fifteen, and inaugurate a social survey of your community; or, if you live in a
                large city, of your ward or neighborhood. Find out how people live, where and how
                they spend their Sundays and their annual vacation (you will be surprised to find a
                lot of people in this world who never have a vacation), find out how many babies the
                families of the rich and poor average and see what is going to become of the great
                American nation two hundred years from now. See where the children play (Fig. 21), take a bird's-eye view of your neighbors.
                There are a lot of fine folks living around you, and you are not acquainted with
                them. Some are probably in a position to help you where you need help, while you
                will be able to help them where they most need it. Get interested in human beings,
                lose some of your troubles while you mingle with the great common herd. You will
                feel ashamed of some of your own imaginary difficulties when you see how real are
                the troubles of some other people.

              A few years ago while lecturing in a western city, I advised a nervous,
                self-centered semi-invalid, who implored me to tell her what she could do to get
                well, to begin a sociologic survey of her community. She did it. She is a well woman
                today; she has become the Jane Addams of her community; in fact, her reputation has
                become state wide. She is the president of nearly everything that amounts to
                anything in the county, excepting the banks. Thousands of able men and women are
                dying of mildew and stagnation while their neighbors languish for the need of the
                very efforts which would prove their salvation.
            

            

            
              PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE

              What are you doing to improve the sanitary and hygienic status of your community?
                Is the milk supply up to standard? You don't know anything about it? Begin an
                investigation today. It is a life and death propositon with the babies, this matter
                of the quality of the milk supply. If your health authorities are on the job in this
                matter, cooperate with them, heartily support them. If they are not, start the ball
                rolling, wake them up. See that the matter is not neglected another day. Forget
                yourself while you battle for better babies. Do something for the good of the rising
                generation.

              What about your water supply? Does your community need a new bond issue for a
                better water system and a modern, up-to-date system of sewage disposal? Get into
                politics, if necessary, to improve the health of the community. If you can't get
                action any other way, run for office, be an insurgent. Learn how to put things
                through and put them over, and if you use common sense, and do not overdo
                physically, by the time the campaign is over and the victory won, you will be half
                cured of your nerves; or, if you should lose the fight the first time, be game, be a
                good loser, that is an excellent part of the practice of self-control which is such
                a large part of the cure of neurasthenia.

              What about the health of the pupils in the public schools? Are their throats,
                noses, and eyes being looked after? Do you have medical inspection of your schools?
                If not, get it. It will do you good. It will save lives and help to cure your
                troubles.

              If we could only organize and utilize the wasted nerve energy and worry-thought of
                our nervous patients-- if we could only get it diverted out of the channels of
                self-thought and self-pity-- we would have a sufficiently strong and powerful force
                to bring about the transformation of the civic and social life of our towns and
                cities. Neurasthenics, when they get busy, can usually do things. A large majority
                of the world's workers have been more or less neurotic, but they have kept on the
                job. They have been sensible. They have chosen to wear out rather than rust out.
                They have preferred to fight the battle rather  than
                to bewail the handicap. They have chosen to "play the game" rather than to worry
                over threatened defeat.

              Wake up and take an active interest in the public-spirited improvements of your
                community or locality. The joy and satisfaction that is sure to follow your
                activities along these lines will do a great deal to relieve you from the harassing
                fear and gloomy worries that have so long tortured your life; yes, which have even
                prevented your living and compelled you merely to exist.
            

            
              LENDING A HELPING HAND

              I think I could enumerate at least one hundred different public or quasi-public
                movements of the present day which beckon the neurasthenic to "come over and help
                us." The summer vacation movement for working girls, the boys' clubs and girls'
                clubs of the great cities, the big brother and the big sister movement, city mission
                and rescue work, sunshine work for the shut-ins, hospital visitation and
                entertainment, the flower missions, children's aid societies and home finding
                organizations, work for the aged, the blind, the crippled, the defective and the
                delinquent, prison reform, the work-house up-lift movement, tenement and the better
                housing problems, factory hygiene and child labor, problems of the working girl and
                regulation of working hours for women, playgrounds and dance halls, the foreign
                immigrant, workingmen's compensation and old age pensions, temperance and local
                option, women's clubs and suffrage, politics, religion, science, art, and
                literature. These and scores of other forms of altruistic and humanitarian work,
                stand in need of just the thought and energy which you neurasthenics are daily
                wasting on yourselves-- i.e., pity, sympathy, and contemplation. Come along,
                brother, sister! Volunteer, enlist in the fight, take hold with us, we are having a
                good time, we folks who are doing the world's work and trying to reform our fellows!
                Join the ranks! The valiant fighting by day and the campfire stories by night will
                help you to forget yourself; and, I ask, who knows but you are destined to become
                one of the world's great men or women-- great, I mean, in the highest and truest
                sense, in that you have brought the  greatest
                happiness and health to the greatest number of men and women and boys and girls of
                this generation, while you contribute something toward that reorganization and
                readjustment of society which will give the boy and girl of the next generation a
                better and more equal chance in this great and fascinating struggle which we call
                "life."
            

            
              A REGULATED DAILY PROGRAM

              Now, after all that we have said about play and recreation, fads and fancies, about
                the "work cure" and the "social service cure," my readers will recognize the
                necessity of properly adapting this advice to their individual cases. No one of you
                can do all the things I have recommended. You cannot at any one time carry out all
                the details of the advice I have given you. What you need to do is to select that
                advice and follow those instructions which are best suited to your condition-- just
                as you find yourself today. If you are working hard you may need the "rest cure;" if
                you are idle and indolent, you may need the "work cure." Make out a daily program
                which is consistent with your physical strength and your nervous energy and then
                keep yourself healthily and wholesomely busy. If you do too much at first you will
                simply have a set back, get right up and try it over again. Let your watchword, yea,
                your slogan, ever be: "If at first I do not succeed, I will do it, do it, again."
                When you are temporarily thwarted, when you are for the time being defeated, rise
                right up, shake the dust of doubt off your feet, and exultantly exclaim, "Never
                touched me! Onward!" And with this indomitable and determine spirit, ultimately you
                are bound to succeed.
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 When trying to get the mind off of one's self, there is nothing in the
                  world so absorbing and fascinating as getting interested in other human
                  beings.

                 Nervous people must train themselves to become more tolerant of other
                  people's opinions. Intolerance is responsible for much domestic, commercial, and
                  social friction.

                 It is an aid in overcoming our own petty whims if we cultivate
                  indulgence for the whimsical conduct of our friends.

                 We should remember that the one who bears a grudge or  carries a grievance is the one who is most injured by
                  this uncharitable state of mind.

                 If you want to get over the "blues" in a hurry, enlist in the
                  "cheering up business." Work at it from the time you get up in the morning until
                  you go to bed at night.

                 Look over your experience and find out those things you should be glad
                  about, and then let other people know that you are glad.

                 Good cheer, laughter, and light-heartedness are a real part of the
                  cure of nervousness.

                 Cultivate the society of children and good-natured adults. It is
                  always a help to have a bright-faced baby in the home.

                 Take an interest in those who are less fortunate than yourself. Save a
                  little of your time now and then for good-samaritan work. Remember the Golden
                  Rule.

                 All chronic worriers need three things: a good job, a good fad, and a
                  good religion.

                 If you are lonely and idle, enlist others like yourself, and
                  undertake a social survey of your community. You will be greatly surprised and
                  highly benefited.

                 Get interested in the public health service of your community.
                  Investigate the milk and water supply. Help clean up the town.

                 What do you know about your public schools? Do the children enjoy
                  medical inspection? What are you doing to help the movement for better
                  babies?

                 The world is dying for need of just what you are wasting on yourself;
                  that is, pity, sympathy and energy.

                 Get used to doing things. Remember the majority of the world's
                  workers have been more or less neurotic, but they preferred to wear out rather
                  than rust out.

                 Wake up and lend a helping hand to one or more of the reform
                  movements or uplifting propagandas in your midst. These reforms need you, you need
                  them.

                 Be sane in your efforts to get well, don't overdo. Don't try at one
                  dose to take all the advice given in this and preceding chapters.
              
            
          

          
            
            CHAPTER XXXVII THE FAITH AND PRAYER CURE*

            IN ALL our dealings with neurasthenia and neurasthenics, we must
              not only remember that man is instinctively a "playing animal," but that he is also
              inheritently a "religious animal," a moral being, and in the matter of spiritual
              therapeutics we must separate religion from its current association with dullness. I
              recently heard a soulful-visaged lady say in describing a sermon she had just heard:
              "Oh, he preached such a fine sermon, it made everybody feel so bad." I want frankly to
              state at the beginning of this chapter, that that is not the kind of religion the
              author is interested in. We must get away from the idea that our spiritual blessings
              are always administered in sorrow and disguised with failure and fatigue.

            
              THE WORSHIP INSTINCT

              Worship is getting out of fashion. The average man thinks of it as something
                medieval or obsolete. He may excuse it like any other fondness for what is
                old-fashioned; he may find it interesting, amusing, even endearing, in those who
                throw themselves into it sincerely. But in any case he looks on at it as a
                spectator; it is not for him.

              Worship renews the spirit as sleep renews the body. Our souls as well as our bodies
                get drained, now and again, of available energy. We "go stale" as Hamlet did, and to
                our jaundiced view the world too becomes "stale, flat, and unprofit able," or
                "sicklied o'er with the pale cast" of our own 
                * In the preparation of
                  this chapter I have drawn freely from that excellent book by Dr. Cabot entitled
                    What Men Live By, and from my own work, The
                    Physiology of Faith and Fear, or the Mind in Health and Disease.
                 low-grade cerebration. This is not always the result
                of physical fatigue; for people who never did a stroke of work in their lives are as
                prone as any to these symptoms of spiritual fatigue.

              Nevertheless, we attempt again and again to shut ourselves off in spiritully
                unventilated corners. There we stifle and droop. Play and love revive us partially
                because they take us into better ventilated, less cramped activities. Worship
                fulfills what play, art, and love attempt. "Pleasure, recreation, friendship, the
                companionship of men and women, beauty-- all these recall the outgoings of ambition
                and moral effort and untie a man with his natural appreciation. Worship is the whole
                which includes them."

              Because worship is a renewal of our depleted spiritual energies, it is naturally
                intermittent. One need not jeer at the worshiper for spending so little time on that
                which he declares to be his salvation. For it is in work, play, and love that he
                must earn the right to pray as he earns the promise of sleep. No one can find out
                except by trying whether he needs prayer once an hour, once a week, or less often.
                ,The rhythm of its recurrence should be governed like that of any physiological
                function, varying like food, sleep, and recreation, without expenditures of effort
                and energy.
            

            
              WHAT IS PRAYER?

              It is a favorite trick with those who pretend to read the palm to say, with special
                emphasis and secrecy to each customer: "I can see in your hand that the deepest
                  and best of you has never yet found expression. Half unconsciously you are
                  repressing a flood of power which pushes ever for freedom. To set it free will be
                  the deepest joy of your life."

              The beauty of this ever-successful trick is that what the sharper pretends to
                discover in this individual he knows to be true of every living being. We are
                piteously unexpressed. We differ only in the means that can set us free. How many in
                whom we least suspect it are longings to sing-- not to interpret a genteel melody,
                but to let themselves out in song! The efforts expended in business, in sport, and
                even in affection seem comparatively impersonal and indirect. They do not free the
                breast, they do tell the tale.

              

              How many in whom we least suspect it are longing to pray! How many who hardly
                suspect it themselves! I believe that the craving to sing is but a partial and
                imperfect image of the craving to pray. What song is to prosy speech, that prayer is
                to song. It is the supremely personal and direct utterance for which all creation
                longs, for which hard toil prepares.

              When we set ourselves to this work of collecting or re-collecting the scattered
                pieces of ourselves, we begin a task which, if carried to its natural conclusions,
                ultimately becomes prayer. We are driven to something of the sort when the shock of
                illness, war, bankruptcy, or death has shaken us out of the rut of habit and brought
                us face to face with the mess which we are making of our years. It was after such a
                shock Lincoln called the whole nation to prayer in his message of December 1, 1862:
                  
                  The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion
                    is piled high with difficulty and we must rise to the occasion. As our case is
                    new, so we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves and then
                    we shall save our country.
                
            

            
              THE COMFORT OF CONFESSION

              When a child wakes in the grip of a nightmare, sobs, and stammers it out to his
                mother, and finds that its horrors have swiftly vanished, he has discovered the
                value of confession. Through expression something confused and inarticulate has lost
                its terrors. By confession he marshals his troubles in consciousness and spreads
                them out in form and order; thus he gains command of them and of himself.

              Confession in more or less secular forms, confession to a doctor or a chum, gives
                some relief to the tortures of internal strife-- duplicity and fraud, the burden of
                lies, thefts, treachery, or concealment; or, it may be, the more subtle duplicity of
                warring ideals, curiosities, and doubts. In any case we seek instinctively through
                confession some inner peace or at least some truce to inner war. We make these
                secular confessions primarily because we cannot hold in any longer. We confess not
                so much because murder will out, but rather because the  tension between what we are and what we seem to be has grown intolerable.

              An interesting variety of confession, rediscovered and reapplied by the German
                neurologist, forms part of the "psycho-analytic" treatment of functional nervous
                disorders. People suppress and try to bury a disappointed hope or an evil desire;
                but accidentally they bury it alive, so that it struggles and shrieks beneath the
                weight of daily life piled on top of it. Now and then the struggles of this fragment
                of buried existence shake the surface of everyday life and emerge in a fit of
                weeping or of rage. "You begin to cry," said a small boy of my acquaintance, "for
                the thing that made you cry, but you go on crying for all the sad and sorry things
                that ever happened." You had never quite destroyed the ghost of these ancient
                sorrows. From the deeper inconsequent strata of your existence it rises to haunt and
                oppress you.

              So in rage; we begin to be angry with a companion for some trifling annoyance, but
                we go on into a "fit of rage" because our momentary anger is reinforced by the
                quiescent memories of a multitude of other injuries, long half-consciously brooded,
                never quite forgiven. All this submerged corruption boils up to the surface, and we
                may work ourselves into a passion for the sake of the vent it gives to our repressed
                and smouldering resentment.

              A better vent is given by full confession. To see clearly that we are abusing our
                fellow for his part in spats which both should have forgiven and forgotten long go,
                shames us or makes us laugh. The air is cleared; the ghosts of past quarrels are
                laid. To tempt the sufferer into confessing what he did not know enough to confess,
                is the substance of psychanalysis. I have discovered that my neurotic patients do
                not get along well in the presence of family trouble-- domestic misunderstandings--
                and that when we can induce them to "confess," "make up," and "begin over again;"
                then, and not until then, does the patient with "nerves" begin to improve.
            

            
              THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PRAYER

              True prayer is a sort of spiritual communion between man and his Maker, a
                sympathetic communication between the soul  and its
                Saviour. We do not look upon prayer as a means of changing God's will. The Divine
                Mind does not need to be changed; He is ever beneficent and kindly disposed toward
                mankind. While prayer does not change God, it certainly does change the one who
                prays, and this change in the mind of the praying soul is sometimes immediate,
                profound, and often wholly inexplicable.

              True prayer, then, is found to be a practice consisting of powerful mental, moral,
                and spiritual factors. The mental factor in genuine prayer is that of suggestion and
                self-surrender. Sincere prayer is the most powerful method and the most legitimate
                manner in which suggestion can be made to the human mind. Not only is the suggestion
                of prayer auto-suggestion-- the ideal form of suggestion-- but this suggestion is
                made to the mind when it is in a state of surrender, unconditional surrender to the
                mind of God and not to the mind of man. Psychology and psychotherapy are unable to
                portray such an ideal state of the human mind for the favorable reception of
                suggestion, neither can they point out such powerful and wholesome means of
                administering this suggestion as by the simple childlike practice of old-fashioned
                prayer.

              The moral element of prayer is that it keeps the mind focussed upon high ideals,
                upon things which are ennobling and elevating. Prayer, in an unusual manner, imparts
                moral courage and wholesome confidence to the suppliant. Prayer is a direct
                preventive of many of those reprehensible social and moral practices which
                inevitably breed worry, remorse, and sorrow of heart. Prayer strengthens the will,
                in contra-distinction to hypnotism, which usually weakens it.

              The spiritual factor in prayer is strong; no other phase of human experience is
                fraught with such extraordinary possibilities for spiritual strength and
                development. Prayer actually generates moral energy and creates spiritual courage.
                The prayer life is the life of spiritual power and moral victory.
            

            
              THE PHYSIOLOGY OF PRAYER

              The domain of prayer is not limited alone to the spiritual, moral, and mental
                realms; it concerns and influences even the  physical
                body. The praying soul usually is found upon bended knees and with bowed head. This
                bending of the physical knee reflexly aids in bending the will and the mind of the
                one who prays. There is a close interrelationship between the attitude of body and
                the attitude of mind.

              Prayer is able, directly, immediately, most powerfully, and most favorably to
                influence the physical functions of the body; that is, genuine prayer, the prayer of
                faith, exerts its beneficent influence upon the body, while other kinds of prayer
                may be highly injurious to the physical health, as will be noted presently. True
                praying assists the petitioner in gaining control over various physical propensities
                and animal passions. Prayer is a means of bringing the body into subjection to the
                mind, and the mind into obedience to the spiritual faculties and to the Divine
                Mind.
            

            
              THE THERAPEUTICS OF PRAYER

              Any practice that can wield such a mighty influence over mind and body as that
                exerted by prayer must indeed possess tremendous therapeutic possibilities. In
                discussing prayer as a therapeutic agent, we in no way aim to belittle its influence
                as a religious practice or a spiritual force. We freely concede that its power is
                almost unlimited in these realms. In his Varieties of Religious
                  Experience, Professor James says: 
                  As regards prayer for the sick, if any medical fact can be considered to stand
                    firm, it is that in certain environments, prayer may contribute to recovery, and
                    should be encouraged as a therapeutic measure.
                

              Just a few days ago I had an opportunity of observing the tremendous power and
                possibility of prayer in the management of these nervous sufferers. Mrs. M. is a
                refined, highly-educated patient, whom I had seen a number of times in consultation
                with Dr. Lena-- my wife-- and had advised the doctor that I did not look for much
                improvement in her patient until her (the patient's) mental life was set in order
                and certain and numerous psychic slivers were effectually removed. In reply to Dr.
                Lena's question as to how long I thought it would take  to get her out of her trouble, I said: "Probably a year and a half." Imagine my
                surprise when this patient walked into my office yesterday and informed me that her
                "troubles were all over," that the things she assured me a few days ago she "could
                never do," had all been done. That everything I had asked her to do as a part of her
                "cure" had been accomplished-- she had completely overturned her social, family, and
                personal life-- had made numerous "confessions," and had accomplished a score of
                almost impossible mental and moral "stunts," and in reply to my astonished question,
                "How in the world did you ever do all these things and effect this great change in
                your mental attitude toward yourself and the world in less than one week?" she
                smilingly replied: "Dr. Lena taught me how to pray."
            

            
              THE PERVERSION OF PRAYER

              But many who are aware of God, and try to live according to what they believe to be
                his will, still feel that petition is a relic of barbarous or of naive ages,
                something not to be taken seriously by reasonable people. Prayers for rain, for
                victory in battle, for the recovery of the sick-- what are these but frantic
                attempts to break the laws of nature? And even if they could succeed, would they not
                be grossly selfish? For my victory is often another's despair. The rain which falls
                on my crops leaves my distant neighbor's all the longer in drought. But if we admit
                that "all prayer that craves a particular commodity-- anything less than all good--
                is mean and vile," do we eliminate all the prayers that any needy mortal wants to
                make? "All good" is a pretty large order and a tolerably vague one. In answer to
                this question, which often troubled me in past years, Christ's words in the garden
                of Gethsemane now seem wholly satisfying: "Father, if thou be willing, remove this
                cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done."

              Whoever, by religious instinct or religious philosophy, has come to believe that
                the universe is a team of which he is a member, wants the success of the team
                unconditionally and with his whole heart, and wants nothing else, save with the  condition, "provided this does not contravene the needs
                of the team." Such is the spirit of Christ's prayer. Obviously then, conditional
                wishing is part of our daily exercise. The babyish tendency to "want what you want
                when you want it" is squelched or modified in every piece of concerted work, in
                every advance of science, and every harmonious family. To revise and subordinate our
                wills until they are conditional on the success of a city, a party, or any other
                team to which we are loyal is among the most familiar and unheroic necessities of
                civilized life.

              In this connection we desire to utter a warning against morbid methods of prayer.
                No procedure is capable of great good without at the same time being susceptible of
                perversion and great harm. Another case will illustrate the harm of prayer, when it
                consists of a meaningless recital of one's difficulties, serving as a source of
                adverse autosuggestion to the mind. Such methods of prayer tend to weaken and
                debilitate the mental and moral powers. Several years ago I had a patient, a young
                man, twenty-two years of age, who was fighting a great moral battle. He became very
                much discouraged; broke off his marriage engagement; severed his connection with the
                church; and at the time we met him, seriously contemplated suicide. Having tried
                numerous methods of giving him help and relief, we finally made bold to advise that
                he was in need of moral strength-- spiritual power-- and suggested that he would
                find great help in systematic prayer. To this he replied: "Why, doctor, I have
                  prayed about my troubles until two o'clock in the morning, and then after my great
                  struggle with God, I would soon fall again into my sin. The more I pray, the worse
                  I get; nothing will do me any good. It is either the insane asylum or the grave
                  for me." After listening to this recital of his experience, it occurred to me
                that in his case, prayer was being prostituted into a form of adverse and
                unwholesome suggestion; that he had prayed about his moral perversity so much that
                this very praying had become a direct aid in keeping the wicked idea everlastingly
                before his mind. Instead of making a helpful and uplifting suggestion out of prayer,
                he was making it harmful and debasing. And so we  made
                bold to suggest the following procedure in his case: We asked him to reunite with
                the church; to see his fiancee and set a new wedding-day; to begin to lay plans for
                securing a flat, and actively to engage in selecting the furnishings. We asked him
                to let his mind freely dwell upon the happy home he would have and the splendid
                children who would come to bless it. We had him sign a written agreement not to
                think, talk, or pray about his troubles for two weeks. We explained to him as best
                we could, that, when he had asked his Heavenly Father to help him in a matter of
                this kind, it was not necessary to ask more than once; that further prayer should be
                devoted to thanking God for the help that was to come and in expressing gratitude
                for the help that even now had already come.

              We are glad to report that in this case, after his method of praying had been
                turned from one of constant adverse suggestion into one of thanksgiving and
                gratitude, he was highly successful. From that day on, this young man became an
                absolute victor over his besetting sin. And so it is apparent that prayer can be so
                perverted as to become a means of great harm as a therapeutic procedure. The
                author's highest conception of prayer is that silent and spiritual communion between
                the spirit of the creature and the Spirit of his Maker. In the early stages of
                therapeutic praying it is very necessary that the prayer should be calmly and
                distinctly uttered in words, that the petitioner may hear his own prayer, for this
                greatly increases the influence and suggestive power of the procedure.
            

            
              PRAYER AN INSPIRATION TO WORK

              Prayer is not only a means whereby the mind of man and the divine forces are
                brought into cooperation, but, if it is uttered in faith, it usually leads the one
                who prays to put forth every effort to bring about the answer of his prayers.
                Genuine prayer is an expression of courage and confidence combined with faith and
                good works.

              Although prayer is a powerful therapeutic agent, we must fully recognize that
                neither belief in our prayers, nor suggestion, nor reeducation will take the place
                of proper physical  ministrations and the scientific
                care of the diseased or disordered body. Prayer may be the breath of the soul;
                prayer may be the avenue whereby the diseased mind is eliminated and the Divine Mind
                brought in to replace it; prayer is the great channel by which man can harmonize his
                mind with that of his Maker. Nevertheless, good food, pure water, fresh air, sound
                sleep, and deep breathing, together with mental and physical exercise, are
                absolutely essential to the recovery of most nervous and psychic disorders.

              We do not teach that prayer should not be used as a safety-valve for the soul. It
                is far better when the feelings, the emotions, and the internal pressure have arisen
                almost to the bursting point-- it is far better for the Christian to pour out his
                soul to God in prayer, than to participate in an outburst of anger or to indulge in
                a fit of bad temper. If it is absolutely necessary that one should have a vent of
                some sort to relieve himself, prayer will be found to be a successful and
                satisfactory mode of obtaining such relief. Even when prayer is accompanied by more
                or less weeping and wailing, it is certainly preferable to a hysterical outbreak or
                to a verbal explosion of raving and ranting.
            

            
              CHRISTIANITY THE HIGHEST PSYCHOTHERAPY

              We are forced to recognize the therapeutic value of prayer, no matter with what
                system of belief or religion it may be associated; but we have spoken of prayer in
                this text with the thought of its being a part of practical Christianity. The author
                regards prayer as the master mind cure, and Christianity as the highest and truest
                form of psychotherapy. There can be no question that the Christian religion, when
                properly understood and truly experienced, possesses power both to prevent and cure
                numerous mental maladies, moral difficulties, and physical disorders. It must be
                evident to the reader that fear and doubt are disease-producing, while faith and
                hope are health-giving; and in the author's opinion, the highest possibilities of
                faith and the greatest power of hope are expressed in the Christian religion. The
                teachings of Christ are the greatest known destroyers of doubt and despair.

              

              No one can appreciate so fully as a doctor the amazingly large percentage of human
                diseases and sufferings which are directly traceable to immorality, dissipation, and
                ignorance-- to unwholesome thinking and unclean living. The sincere acceptance of
                the principles and teachings of Christ with respect to the life of mental peace and
                joy, the life of unselfish thought and clean living, would at once remove more than
                one-half the difficulties, diseases, and sorrows of the human race. In other words,
                more than one-half of the present afflictions of mankind could be prevented by the
                tremendous prophylactic power of the Christian religion.

              Christianity applied to our modern civilization-- understandingly applied, not
                merely believed or accepted-- would so purify, uplift, and vitalize us that the
                human race would immediately stand out as a new order of beings, possessing superior
                mental power and increased physical force. Irrespective of the future rewards of the
                Christian religion, laying aside all discussion of future life, it would pay any man
                or woman to live the Christ-life just for the mental and physical rewards which it
                affords here in this present world. Some day the world may awake to the point where
                it will recognize that the teachings of Christ are potent and powerful in the work
                of preventing and curing disease. Some day our wonderful boasted scientific
                developments, as regards mental and moral improvement, may indeed catch up with the
                teachings of the Christian religion.
            

            
              FAITH AS A REMEDY

              And so, having advanced in modern therapeutics to that point where we recognize the
                necessity of treating the whole physical body in most cases of common disorders, the
                time is certainly ripe for a further forward movement in the scientific and sensible
                treatment of human disease. The next great advance in modern therapeutics consists
                in a greater recognition of the importance of treating not merely the whole body,
                but of administering therapeutically to the whole man-- to the mental man and the
                moral as well as to the material man; to the psychic man as well as to the physical
                man.

              

              The people are hungry for sympathy, for encouragement, for advice and guidance;
                and, in the light of modern psychology, we are forced to recognize that all systems
                of religious belief, more or less, afford this psychic help. Every phase of
                religious teaching which specializes on divine healing, is moving forward in the
                world with great rapidity. The Roman Catholic Church undoubtedly holds many of its
                members because of the peculiar mental relief afforded by the confessional. Troubled
                souls unbosom their sorrows and go away consoled, and, of course, physically and
                psychically helped in proportion.

              Faith, as used in this text, means decidedly more than mere belief. Living faith is
                not merely a theological adjunct to a theoretical religion. Faith is a vitalizing
                attribute of the human mind-- it possesses tremendous physical possibilities and
                extraordinary therapeutic powers. Tolstoi once called faith "the force of life."

              Faith means more than belief. To believe a thing is merely to accept it by our
                reason; to realize that no facts or logical consideration of any kind exist which
                can prevail against it. Faith implies such acceptance even in the face of
                considerations of fact or of logic; their reality may be recognized, but they are
                consistently ignored when they appear in relation to the object of our faith. Faith
                calls for a complete and unconstitutional surrender of one's whole body, soul, and
                spirit, to the idea or thing which is believed in. Faith, of necessity, must further
                include the idea of obedience to that which it accepts.

              Belief only requires the cooperation of the intellectual powers, and an impartial
                distribution of the affections, over the whole field of those mental processes by
                the activity of which belief is attained. Faith demands the consecration of the
                whole mind, the concentration of the affections upon a given idea or upon a
                preconceived object. Faith demands and implies a thorough control of the emotions;
                the cooperation of the spiritual forces on the one hand, and the physical forces on
                the other. The highest known development of faith is to be found in the faith of
                Christianity, which represents the most all-inclusive, the most powerful and
                transcendent mental action, moral exercise, and spiritual force known to man. The
                "Faith of Jesus" is  a supernatural power-- divine
                attribute, and must not be confused with our discussions of faith in the psychologic
                sense.

              The religions of modern times have been in imminent danger of becoming weak and
                effeminate. The world today needs more of the militant but wisely directed spirit of
                the early Christian religion. We must come to exercise more faith and manifest more
                determination in the pursuit of the higher and nobler aims of life. Faith is a
                tremendous motive power and when it once dominates the soul, it is able to harness
                the mind and control the body; it is able to combat disease and relieve suffering;
                yes, it is able to vanquish sorrow and establish peace.
            

            
              RELIGIOUS STOICISM

              It is dangerous to go through life without religion and without philosophy. I can
                even, without doing any wrong to the believers, say plainly "without philosophy";
                for religion itself can be efficacious only when it creates a living philosophy in
                him who practices it.

              Religious faith would be the best preventative against the maladies of the soul and
                the most powerful means of curing them if it had sufficient life to create true
                Christian stoicism in its followers. In this state of mind, which is, alas! so rare
                in the thinking world, man becomes invulnerable. Feeling himself upheld by his God,
                he fears neither sickness nor death. He may succumb under the attacks of physical
                disease, but morally he remains unshaken in the midst of his sufferings, and is
                inaccessible to the cowardly emotions of nervous people. He proves that "perfect
                love casteth out all fear."

              There can be no doubt that religious suggestion is far more powerful with the
                average individual than secular suggestion. Religious suggestions probably carry a
                greater force because of their power to appeal to a far greater group of psychic
                powers and spiritual energies. The feelings and emotions are usually considerably
                aroused in connection with religious suggestion, and it is well-known that
                suggestions are frequently welded on to the mind in exact proportion to the height
                of the feelings and the intensity of the emotions. Not that one cannot secure new
                ideas without feeling or emotion, but rather  that
                feeling and emotion quickly cause the new idea to become a permanent part of the old
                mind.
            

            
              THE MORAL NUTRITION

              Some one has suggested that worry should be treated by dogma and not by drugs, and
                this is good advice so far as it goes. The author regards the Christian religion as
                the ideal system of mind treatment-- a real and efficient system of psychotherapy.
                Prayer is the most powerful and effectual worry-remover with which we are
                acquainted. That man or woman who has learned to pray with childlike sincerity,
                literally talking to and communing with, the Heavenly Father, is in possession of
                the great secret whereby he or she can cast all their care upon God, knowing that He
                careth for us. A clear conscience is a great step toward barricading the mind
                against the entrance of worry. A moral taint of whatever sort is bound to breed
                mental uneasiness and result in destroying perfect balance and poise of mind.

              We believe many are victims of fear and worry because they fail properly to
                maintain their spiritual nutrition. As our perceptions, memories, emotions, and
                thoughts control our bodies, so our unthought aspirations, our unsatisfied spiritual
                yearnings for those things that are, but for us, perhaps, not yet-- those
                indefinable experiences within us, which, taken all together, we commonly call the
                soul-- these in turn contribute balance, direction, and inspiration to our
                intellectual powers. The majority of people liberally feed their bodies, and many
                make generous provision for their mental nourishment; but the vast majority leave
                the soul to starve, paying very little attention to their spiritual nutrition, and
                as a result the spiritual nature is so weakened that it is unable to exercise that
                restraining influence over the mind which would enable it to surmount its
                difficulties and live in an atmosphere above despair and despondency.

              We believe that perfect trust in a Supreme Being is one of the essential steps in
                the successful treatment and effectual deliverance from the bondage of nervousness
                and worry. If your religion does not help you in these matters, if it does not  change you, then it would be better to change your
                religion and get one that does.

              Gladstone was once asked what kept him so serene and composed in the midst of his
                busy life, and replied: "At the foot of my bed, where I can see it on retiring
                  and on arising in the morning, are the words, 'Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace
                  whose mind is stayed on Thee, because he trusteth in Thee.'" There is good
                mental therapeutics in that old method, called the "practice of the presence of
                God."
            

            
              SUMMARY OF THE CHAPTER

              
                 In our dealings with neurasthenia and neurasthenics, we must not only
                  remember that man is a "playing animal," but that he is also a "religious
                  animal."

                 The instinct to worship is inherent in normal mankind; it is a
                  universal instinct, present in all races and peoples.

                 Worship refreshes the inner soul. It fulfills what play, art, and love
                  attempt to supply.

                 Prayer and worship are avenues of self-expression for mind and soul.
                  Many dissatisfied, self-centered souls are starving-- longing to pray-- but they
                  don't know it.

                 Confession, whether it be secular or religious, is the source of the
                  greatest possible comfort to the anxious and burdened neurotic soul.

                 We are sometimes literally compelled to confess, because the tension
                  between what we are and what we seem to be grows to be intolerable.

                 Our past troubles insist upon making us present trouble because they
                  were so often buried alive in our memories.

                 Psychanalysis is merely a scientific scheme for tempting nervous
                  sufferers into confessing what they do not know enough to confess of their own
                  volition.

                 True prayer is a sort of spiritual communion between man and his
                  Maker. It does not change God but profoundly affects the one who prays.

                 Prayer is the ideal mode of practicing autosuggestion. It represents
                  the ideal psychotherapeutic mental state.

                 The moral element of prayer is that it keeps the mind focused upon
                  high ideals, upon ennobling and elevating themes.

                 Prayer is able most powerfully and profoundly to influence even the
                  physical functions of the body. It is of great help in the control of the emotions
                  and passions.

                 Prayer is an invaluable therapeutic aid in the management of chronic
                  nervous worriers-- those lacking self-control.


                

                 Prayer is susceptible of much perversion and prostitution, and when
                  thus practiced readily defeats its own purpose.

                 "Nevertheless, thy will, not mine, be done," is the submissive
                  attitude which characterizes every genuine prayer-petition.

                 The greater part of our modern praying is but the expression of
                  selfish desires, which if answered would work hardship upon our fellows.

                 Morbid habits of prayer-- meaningless repetitions of one's sins and
                  sorrows-- only serve, by auto-suggestion, to confirm our infirmities.

                 Prayer is an inspiration to work. It is an expression of courage and
                  confidence combined with faith and good works.

                 While prayer aids the patient in harmonizing his mind with that of
                  his Maker; nevertheless, prayer cannot take the place of good hygiene and
                  sanctified common sense.

                 Prayer is the master mind cure and Christianity is the highest and
                  truest form of psychotherapy.

                 Faith is a real force in treating nervousness. It assists in
                  controlling the emotions and correlates the mental, physical, and spiritual
                  forces.

                 Faith is able to harness the mind, dominate the soul, control the
                  body, combat disease, relieve suffering, and vanquish worry.

                 Faith breeds religious stoicism. With God behind him, man becomes
                  fearless of disease and death, much less can he be frightened by his nervous
                  emotions.

                 Many persons fall victims to chronic worry because they fail to
                  maintain their spiritual nutrition. The human soul must be watered and fed.

                 Perfect trust in a Supreme Being is one of the essentials to
                  deliverance from the bondage of nervousness and worry.
              
            
          

          

            

            CHAPTER XXXVIII TRIUMPHANT
              SELF-MASTERY
            AND now we have come to the summing up-- the round up. We have
              carefully gone into the causes of nervousness and have freely discussed the cure of
              worry, and now in this chapter, I must take leave, say farewell to my readers. And I
              somehow feel I will be forgiven if I presume to exhort a bit-- to indulge in a little
              preachment, for in the writing of this book I have endeavored to come very close to
              the reader, just as I would in the consulting room.

            
              THE MASTERY OF YOUR MOODS

              All the advice contained in this book will do you little good unless you begin to
                put some part of it into actual practice; unless you really begin to act on it,
                resolve from now on to be a mental master of your own moods, a brave captain of your
                own mind. Practice grit and gumption on yourself and see that things begin to happen
                in the long drawn out battle with your nerves. Teach yourself not to want the things
                you cannot get-- to be satisfied with what you are and what you have. Practice
                contentment with the things of today, while you intelligently and diligently sow the
                seed for a better tomorrow. Live successfully and efficiently one day at a time. Do
                not waste your strength in grieving over the past or squander all your energy in an
                effort to encompass the future. Do the real things of today and let the rest go
                undone.

              Brace up and be a man. Cheer up and be womanly. Don't allow your digestive
                disturbances, rainy days, hot weather,business troubles, or family friction, to get
                on your nerves or upset your mental equilibrium. Stay on your feet, don't be
                flabbergasted by every silly emotion that threatens to sweep over your soul. Stand
                up like a brave soldier in the struggle of life,  be a
                fearless fighter in the battle of faith against fear. The fight may be hard and the
                struggle may be long, but the victory of self-mastery will more than a thousand
                times repay you for every effort and hardship which the conflict may impose.
            

            
              EMOTIONAL TRAINING

              Every human emotion, however overpowering and unruly it may appear in one's life
                today, is susceptible of being trained-- of being intelligently and completely
                controlled. Even if we are not able to educate animals, we can efficiently train
                them; and so the most lawless of emotional neurasthenics and hysterics can be
                retrained if they are but willing to submit to the necessary discipline.

              The real work in the training and disciplining of the emotions should begin in
                early childhood, and in this connection I can do no better than to quote Dr.
                Jacoby's well chosen words: 
                  To impress the youthful brain with noble and beautiful thoughts is but one
                    function of educational training. It is quite as important to regulate by means
                    of habit the flow of ideas, the impulses of the will, and their dependent
                    actions, so that, as an integral possession, they will fortify the personality
                    for its battle of life. It is true the ideal, a healthy mind in a healthy body,
                    can but rarely be fully realized, but it is better to have a healthy and
                    efficient brain in a crippled body than a crippled mind in a normal body.
                  Child-training, however, is not the sole task of psychoprophylactic treatment.
                    Adults, too require training-- frequently more so than children. Consider, for
                    example, those drones of wealth whose entire lives are filled with outward form
                    and trivialities, whose lack of serious purpose makes them easy victims to the
                    unbridled play of their imaginations. Constituting, as they do, so large a
                    proportion of sufferers from neurasthenia and other psychoneuroses, they teach
                    us particularly that inordinate relaxation leads to imaginary disorder,
                    ideational diseases, quite as much as does over-taxation through work.
                  Let us here emphasize the principle that health cannot, as Hoffmann expresses
                    it, be absorbed in comfortable repose with the aid of a drug, but must be
                    acquired and maintained through useful work. When races or individuals,
                    enervated through luxurious living, unwilling to accept further cares or
                    obligations, tend toward "race-suicide" through their need for repose, and,
                    worshipping a  morbid feminism, look on hard work
                    as a disgrace, they represent the dead twigs of humanity, which have fallen and
                    must be replaced by fresh shoots; they have become useless and must give place
                    to those who, through earnest work, have remained young, strong and active.
                
            

            
              THE MORAL MASTERY

              The so-called moral powers are capable of exerting a tremendous influence in the
                control of both mind and body. When the moral mandates are reinforced with a
                positive will, there is absolutely no limit to their far-reaching influence and
                their great power for good in the regulation of mental habits and physical
                practices.

              The moral mastery of the individual is the one safeguard against all those mental
                tortures and physical sufferings, which so certainly come from conscious sin and
                moral depravity. The moral mastery gives birth to an invincible and determined
                spirit. The spiritual sovereignty creates a sense of conscious superiority, which
                contributes much to the mental peace and physical health. Spiritual peace and moral
                satisfaction carry with them the ability to ignore trifling worries and the power to
                rise above our common everyday harassments.

              No stronger illustration of the efficacy of the moral mastery in the psychic and
                physical realms can be cited than the case of the habitual drunkard, the
                dipsomaniac. The author has seen many a case who had in no way been helped by
                treatment in various sanitariums-- to say nothing of fraudulent liquor cures and
                various other fakes-- who was sobered up by religious enthusiasm and kept sober year
                after year by the moral mastery of constant faith. In fact, in the opinion of the
                author, about the only sure cure to be recommended for dipsomania is
                religion-mania.
            

            
              CULTIVATE SELF-CONTROL

              Let those who have lost the power of self-control become intelligent concerning the
                physiology, anatomy, and hygiene of the human nervous system. Read this book through
                again and again until you become thoroughly acquainted with your emotional self.
                Become a master of every teaching that has to  do with
                self-control, and then cultivate it like a farmer cultivates the soil, and you will
                be sure, sooner or later, to obtain a satisfactory harvest yield.

              Entirely cure yourself of that nonsensical doctrine that your feelings exist
                separate and apart from yourself-- from your reason and judgment. Such teaching is
                the sheerest of nonsense. There are no fundamental or primary feelings which exist
                separate and apart from your voluntary mental powers. They are all a part of your
                consciousness, and as such are subject to criticism and susceptible of control.

              It is true that certain sentiments as well as fears and anxieties may persist in
                occupying a place in your mental consciousness quite independent of your will, which
                would immediately cast them out. It is true that notions may persist in your mind
                without the assent of your reason, but these lingering doubts, straggling fears, and
                pestiferous emotions, while they may thus remain in one's mind, are in no sense able
                to dominate or control you. It is ourselves, our wills, that should be in command
                and in control. Never will we bow down and admit that any of these notions,
                emotions, and passions are stronger than we are. The science of self-mastery demands
                that we shall unceasingly deny them this power and unfalteringly challenge their
                usurpation of that place and function in human experience which alone should be
                occupied by a supreme and sovereign will.

              Hear what Pascal says, that mystical neurasthenic, who wrote so well and so often,
                though incompletely: 
                  Man's conversion is prevented by his idleness, his passions, his pride-- in a
                    word, by self-love. We cannot expect to conquer this sentiment by an idea; a
                    passion yields only to a passion.
                

              Yes, truly, a passion yields only to a passion, a sentiment yields only to a
                sentiment; it could not be better put. But how did Pascal not see that all our
                passions, excepting those that are purely animal (hunger, thirst, sexual desires,
                and desire for physical comfort) are ideas become sentiments by reason of being
                imposed upon our understanding!

              This continued mental culture leads us not to liberty, but to  self-mastery; that is to say, to a beneficent slavery in regard to the
                moral sentiments which are imposed upon our minds. It is here that one might speak
                of a categoric imperative, not native and reduced to an imperceptible kernel of
                conscience, but acquired and firmly based upon knowledge. In this noble spirit of
                moral determination the immortal Guyau said: "He who does not act according as he
                thinks, thinks incompletely."
            

            
              THE OPTIMUM LIFE

              When human beings are born into this world their work is born with them. That
                complex interplay of heredity, environment, and educational forces has in accordance
                with the laws of accident and averages, created a more or less definite range of
                destiny in which any single individual may live and move and have his being; and it
                is one of the fascinating tasks of life to explore one's range of possible
                activities and ascertain one's real "optimum of life"; and in furtherance of this
                idea, I can do no better than to quote Partridge, who says: 
                  The personal problem can be expressed, in biological terms, as a search for an
                    optimum mode of life. All animals instinctively do this. They are equipped with
                    special instincts which direct them, and they also profit by experience, which
                    enables them to choose that mode of life, and that habitat, which is, for them,
                    the best. They migrate here and there, seek those conditions of heat, food
                    supply, and shelter, that are best suited to them. And, as is the case with man,
                    their adaptation is not entirely for the individual, but for the offspring and
                    for the community to which they belong. The day can be called the unit of life.
                    If a man can learn to live wisely for one day, he can be said to have succeeded,
                    in a great measure, in solving his personal problem.
                

              The optimum day will differ vastly among individuals, and it is this difference
                that indicates the mode of progress by specialization. It is conceivable that for
                one, the only day which can in the end produce any practical values in life, is a
                day of almost complete rest; but it is not a complete day, a unit of life, unless it
                accomplishes something, however little it may be, that represents the life purpose
                of the individual. For another, the optimum day may be one of the most  self-forgetful and strenuous activity. For the great
                majority, it will be neither of these extremes, but it must be for each a day of
                maximum fulfillment of purpose, with a minimum of waste.
            

            
              THE CONQUEST OF CIVILIZATION

              The science of self-mastery demands that we come to possess a more or less perfect
                control over ourselves in the presence of the complexity and complicated demands of
                modern civilized society. It demands that we shall be able to mingle with the crowd
                and move with the current, or that we have the power and poise which shall enable us
                to withdraw from the common herd and stand aloof in our own conscious completeness,
                in no wise embarrassed by our isolation, or confounded with being enforced to
                associate only with ourselves.

              Man is a sovereign being with soul freedom, mental independence, and moral option;
                but today our complex civilization and highly developed commerce are rapidly turning
                men and women into highly specialized intellectual and industrial machines. One
                would naturally think that the sacredness of the sovereign individuality which has
                been given to man would naturally protect us against the slavery of imitation, but
                this is not so. The power of suggestion, the dread of adverse criticism, and the
                fear of ridicule, make of otherwise intelligent men and women, abject slaves to the
                prevailing fashions. Man has largely lost sight of the fact that diversity of
                character and expression is the law of creation. No two leaves, even on the same
                tree, are exactly alike. The race is losing sight of the fact that the supreme duty
                of man is to live at his best-- ascertain the conditions essential thereto, and
                faithfully adjust his life to them.

              As we increase the complexity of modern living, it becomes necessary that very
                simple and hygienic habits should be generally adopted. It is highly essential that
                men and women of the twentieth century should give daily study and intelligent
                thought to the cultivation and preservation of health. The integrity of the
                civilized races is dependent upon getting away from the house, from the sedentary
                life. Man is in every sense  an outdoor animal, and
                sunshine and fresh air are indispensable to his health and happiness. Many of our
                modern maladies, such as bronchitis, pneumonia, catarrh, and tuberculosis are purely
                and simply house diseases.
            

            
              MENTAL MASTERY

              Self-education and mental training ought early to lead us to that place and power
                of moral supremacy which would enable us to suspend sentiment and impulse, to
                control the emotional motives, for a sufficient length of time to allow our mental
                operations to be calmly reviewed by judgment and soberly passed upon by reason. This
                is the sort of mental self-mastery we are seeking to cultivate in our patients-- a
                self-control that will make them less open to suggestion, even autosuggestion, but
                more open to sound reason and amenable to sane judgment.

              Our patients are all the time telling us when we are exhorting them to renewed zeal
                and increased energy in their battles to conquer self: "But, doctor, I can't do
                  it. I have tried it a thousand times. I simply can't help it. I have always been
                  like this. It's my temperament, I was born that way." And I am forced to admit
                that what the patient is telling me is partially true, but that is a matter of the
                past. I am compelled to advise them on this order: "All this I willingly grant
                  you, but you overlook the fact that we are engaged in the task of creating a new
                  temperament, we are at work changing your viewpoint, controlling your emotions,
                  creating new habits; why, we are actually modifying your temperament and slowly
                  changing your character, and in time we shall have you created into a new
                  personality, you will hardly know yourself; even your friends will remark, 'what a
                  change has come over him,' 'how different she is from what she used to
                be.'"
            

            
              THE VICTORIOUS LIFE

              Civilized people have not yet reached the place where they are willing to break
                away from that debilitating and fear-ridden practice of constantly worrying about
                what other people think of them. We are more or less victims of blind and
                unreasoning  prejudice; and prejudice is a sort of
                mental cork, which prevents good ideas from entering the mind, and sometimes also
                prevents splendid thoughts escaping therefrom.

              Self-control is the great secret and source of human health and happiness. Study
                how properly to work both mind and body, but also study the divine law of mental
                rest. Studiously shun cankering care and that life of perpetual anxiety and suspense
                to which so many are unfortunately addicted. Avoid fear-thought and worry and all
                their mental cousins; and remember it is time to take a vacation, to call a halt,
                when you find you are dreaming at night about your work.

              An uncontrolled and explosive temper is like dynamite to happiness. A single fit of
                anger is able to destroy the tranquillity of the mind for days and even weeks. The
                serpent of suspicion is a mind poison, a thing to be greatly feared and constantly
                shunned, while despondency is inhuman and unnatural-- every intelligent man and
                woman should maintain perpetual quarantine against it.

              Thousands of women are rendered exceedingly nervous and held in social bondage by
                their foolish endeavors to shine in society. Thousands of both men and women labor
                under the lash of debts and mortgages for no reason other than that they may enjoy
                the delusions of luxury. The idea that one must have fine clothes, diamonds, or
                automobiles, in order to maintain his place in society, has wrought the ruin and
                compassed the downfall of many otherwise intelligent and happy families.

              Modern society is suppressing and deforming the individuality of its devotees.
                Social usages and conventionalities are producing the "social stereotype." The
                rising generation are taught to uphold and ape the customs, habits, and mannerisms
                of the preceding generation. Genius, talent, and personality are choked and
                strangled by this insane desire to run the rising generation into our standard
                social moulds.

              The civilized nations are rapidly creating false and arbitrary standards of taste.
                Our methods of living are becoming increasingly extravagant, and all this results in
                producing dissatisfaction and discontent on the part of the lower classes of society
                when they are unable to secure these material possessions, WORRY AND NERVOUSNESS which they are being taught to regard as essential
                to happiness and good living.

              The social functions, banquets, and other lavish entertainments of modern society
                constitute an appalling waste both of time and money. The energy and means foolishly
                and often harmfully squandered by one-half of the world, would, in a short time,
                result in educating and delivering the other half from its intellectual slavery and
                industrial bondage.

              The life of the average housewife and mother is too often made one of unnecessary
                drudgery and useless anxiety. In the modern home life there is altogether too much
                of a tendency to confuse the tasks which are secondary in importance with those
                duties which are essential and vital. Housekeeping is made burdensome by the
                necessity of giving attention to a hundred trifles, the utter neglect of which would
                in no wise interfere with the happiness and usefulness of the home life. Remember
                that the house is not the home-- the home is made by the character and spirit of the
                people who live in the house. Do not forget the value of the porch, the yard, the
                garden-- and the children.

              How long before otherwise intelligent men and women will dare to recognize the
                folly of false etiquette and the uselessness of the extreme demands of modern
                civilized society? Instead of running our children into the stereotyped social mould
                of life, why not encourage the development of the individuality and temperament of
                each child? And it is in this connection that our modern stereotyped methods of
                education become apparent. Why should children be compelled to pass through a
                routine system of education, and allowed to exercise their talents only in certain
                specified lines? Let us hope that the educational systems of the future will make
                provision for the individual growth and development of the child.

              Whatever may be the vicissitudes which attend us in the battle of life as regards
                the struggle for dollars and fame, there is great satisfaction in the knowledge that
                when we engage in the conflict with self-- when we fight the good fight of faith
                against the selfishness of fear-- that victory, success, triumph, shall ultimately
                crown our efforts, if we but fight  according to the
                "rules of the game"-- the laws of our mental and moral being.

              

              And now that I have told my story, now that I must take leave of the reader, it
                does not seem that I have written a book. I rather feel that I have written you, the
                reader, a series of letters, each chapter for a letter, and that is why I have
                written in such a free and easy manner. I somehow feel that I know you that I have
                met you. Perhaps I have typically, in the person of some other nervous sufferer who
                has passed through my hands. At any rate, I trust that you have gathered this same
                spirit as you have gone through the book, chapter by chapter; and further, that you
                will be able to carry out the advice and utilize the information you have herein
                found, if it be possible, in the same successful manner that you would had it been
                given by me personally and directly to you. So here is wishing you success in your
                grand and glorious struggle to achieve the mastery of self and the conquest of
                selfishness, while I extend to you my sincerest sympathy for every failure you may
                make, and offer you a helping hand of courage and confidence as you reenter the
                arena to continue the combat that will one day make of you a complete man, a
                complete woman, fully restore you to that heavenly estate which represents our
                highest destiny, that full restoration of the divine image-- our glorious
                restitution which shall proclaim us the redeemed sons and daughters of God.
            
          
        
      
    

    
      
      
      
        INDEX

        
          Abdomen, massage of, 397
          Abstinence, physical and mental, 258
          Accidents, a cause of hysteria, 225
          Acetanilid, ineffectiveness of as a cure, 410
          Action, mental, and physical exercise, the value of, 24
          Adenoids, and stuttering, 245
          Adolescence, hysteria during, 224; rest and
            relaxation during, 261; hygiene in, 269
          Aerophobia, 95
          Affection, natural, affected, 161
          Age, the effect of worry and, 72; and
            neurasthenia, 135; hygiene of old, 271
          Agitation, the waste of nervous, 371
          Agoraphobia, 97
          Air, fresh, and the mental state, 22; the
            poisons of impure, 157; open, as a help in
            melancholia, 240
          Aichmophobia, 95
          Alcohol, and drugs in relation to blood-pressure, 112, 412; cause of
            neurasthenia, 155; as cause of hysteria,
              225; and relaxation, 384; necessity of abstinence from, 410; effect on the mind, 413
          Alcoholics, advice to, 417
          Alcoholism, physical and moral treatment of, 418
          Alienist, defined, 8
          Altitude and space, dread of, 96
          "Americanitis," or high-pressure life, 107,
              116
          Ambition, value of fostering, 447; losing
            one's, 476
          Ancestral forest life, racial mementoes of, 377
          Anger, influence of on nervous state, 353;
            and body functions, 371; and nervous
            irritation, 371
          Animals, fear of, 99
          Antipirin, ineffective as headache cure, 410
          Anxiety, in relation to blood-pressure, 112; as factor in apoplexy and heartfailure, 113
          Apoplexy, and blood-pressure, 113, 117
          Apparitions, explanation of, 247
          Appendicitis, and hysteria, 229
          Appetite, development of, 402
          Argument vs. persuasion with patients, 320
          Aristotle and mental catharsis, 353; value
            of study of, 442
          Art and science, in nervous hygiene, 266
          Arteries, hardened, and brain work, 115
          Arteriosclerosis, caused by worry, 114;
            high blood-pressure and, 117
          Arts and crafts, remedial value of, 397
          Asthenia, mental, 161
          Asthma, influence of mind on, 46
          Aurelius, Marcus, on worry, 447
          Autointoxication, and neurasthenia, 27,
              114, 150; chronic, as cause of hypochondria, 185; and gastric neurasthenia, 202; origin of, 405
          Auto-psychanalysis, 427
          Auto-suggestion, intentional, 44;  as origin of obsessions, 87; as method of treatment, 279, 304
          Bad judgment and disease, 440
          Barometer, the human, 56
          Baseball, popularity of, explained, 379;
            racial instincts in, 380
          Bath, the cold, effective in raising blood-pressure, 395; value in breaking nicotine habit, 411; electric, Russian, and Turkish, 395; ocean, 395
          Baths, various, to lower blood-pressure, 396
          Bed, importance of, and bedroom, 401
          Bible, study of, in "reading cure," 451
          Biliousness and brain behavior, 25
          Billroth, on "What is a doctor?" 282
          Birth marks, 18
          Blindness, hysteric, and its cause, 49;
            unreasonable fear of, 429
          Blood, circulation of, 24, 37; and microbes, 39; and emotions, 333
          Blood-pressure, significance of, and method of taking, 107; high, and its effects, 108; worry, a cause of high, l09; fluctuations in, 110;
            and religious worry, 111; high, and drink,
              112; and apoplexy and heart failure, 113; as affected by morphine, 113; in arterio-sclerosis and Bright's disease, 117; affected by tobacco, 154; and anger, 372; means
            to raise, 395; methods to lower, 396; affected by alcohol, 412; affected by morphine, 419
          Blood stream, the, and the mind, 26
          "Blues," definition of chronic, 7; a form
            of mild hypochondria, 235; mental occupation
            and, 238; and the "work cure," 470
          Blushing and mind concentration, 318
          Bock, Dr., on tea and coffee, 155
          Body, diseases of the, and brain disorders, 28; power of mind over, 33; and mind, treatment of, 256
          Body functions and anger, 371
          Body secretions, 40
          Body waste, elimination of, and brain action, 28
          "Boogy man," the, 259
          Borderland nervous disorders, 10, 243
          "Boss," value of a, in "work cure," 474
          Botany, helpfulness of study of, 266
          Boy scout movement, recreational value of, 376
          Brain fag, 6, 47; behavior of, and biliousness, 25; and dyspepsia, 26;
            disorders of, and body disease, 28; influence
            of emotions on, 47; the development of,
            retarded, 250; action and breathing, 23; and elimination, 28; cells, deterioration of, 47; control, 120, 131, 146;
            effects of insufficient, 121; starvation of,
              27; wandering, 160; work, and hard arteries, 115
          Breakdown, the modern, nervous, 12
          Breathing, deep, and brain action, 23,
              45
          Breuer, method of psychotherapy, 351
          Bright's disease, causes of, 116, 117; and neurasthenia, 135
          Bromides, danger of, 410
          Brontophobia, 96
          Bunge, Von, and ancestral alcoholism, 17
          Burbank, Luther, on play, 387
          Buttermilk, value of, in combatting malificent toxins, 404

          

          Cabot, Dr., and four essentials to the enjoyment of life, 327; on a "good job," 473
          Calories, number of, required, 403
          Carbohydrates, relation of, to alcohol, 414
          Catalepsy, in hysteria, 227
          Catharsis, mental, 353
          Cats, fear of, 99
          Causes, common, of worry and nervousness, 63; moral, of worry, 70; physical, of
            neurasthenia, 144; sociological and
            occupational, of neurasthenia, 146
          Cereals and insomnia, 404
          Cerebral insufficiency, hysteria due to, 222
          Character, and hypnotism, 289; formation
            of, and will, 330; determination of, 331, 344
          Cheerfulness, influence of, 22; and the
            muscular system, 43
          Chess and checkers, value of, in mind training, 346
          Child, physical conditions affecting health of, 29; and nervousness, 64;
            treatment of the backward, 250; care necessary
            to develop healthy nervous system, 258; nervous
            mechanism of, 259; hygiene of, 260; teaching self-discipline, 316; and fatigue, 382;
            training emotions in, 505; individual
            development of, 512
          Child birth, insanity following, 269
          Childhood, the age to teach decision, 344
          Childless, the, 270
          Chorea, see St. Vitus' dance
          Christian Science, its use of will power, 178, 187; and pseudoepilepsy, 250; its cures, 267; nature, 290; founder,
              290; why it is believed, 291; how it works, 292; eliminates fear, 293;
            explanation of cures, 294, 295, 299;
            its teaching, 304; healings, 362
          Christianity and psychotherapy, 497
          Cigarette habit, treatment of, 411
          Circulation and emotion, 37; unstable,
              169
          Circulatory system and chemical messages, 35
          Civilization, modern, in relation to neurasthenia, 13; conquest of, 509
          Clairvoyant, the, and susceptibility of the human mind, 287
          Clapp, on the effect of worry, 115
          Claustrophobia, 97
          Clownism, period of, in hysteria, 232
          Coal tar products, harm of, 410
          Cocaine, danger of, 411; effect of, on
            blood-pressure, 419
          Coffee, harm of, 155, 410
          Competition and will-power, 343
          Compress, remedial value of hot and cold, in case of headache, 394
          Concentration, mental, 316; physiology of,
              317
          Condiments, harm of, 156, 404; candy vs., 414
          Confession, comfort of, 490; mental relief
            in, 499
          Confidence, instilled by faith, 43
          Confusion, mental, a leading symptom, 160;
            how to overcome, 256
          Congeniality, value of, 475
          Conscience, value of, as a moral guide to thought, 331; education of, 332
          Consciousness, threshold of, 177
          Constipation, diet for its prevention, 404
          Contagion, psychic, 309
          Conversational method, to reeducate will, 281
          Cool-headedness, 90
          Country vs. city schools, 272
          Country population, nervous disorders among the, 263
          Courage and deep breathing, 45
          Courtney, on neurasthenics, 137

          

          Cramps, muscular, in hysteria, 227
          Crane, Dr. Frank, and "the practice of greatness by words," 308
          Credulity, the public, and fakers, 286
          Crile, experiments with brain cells, 47
          Crime and play, 388
          Criminal, the, and psychasthenia, 215; the
            born, and degenerate, 339
          Crossness and its remedy, 304
          Crowds, a cure for neurasthenia, 262
          Cults, faith-healing, 81; psychic, 275; explanation of success in healing, 362
          Curability, assertion of, a factor in psychotherapy, 282
          Cure, of stammering, 245; of migraine,
              249; the "writing or elimination," 424; the "study," 445; the "play or rest," 458; the "social service," 480; the "faith and
            prayer," 488
          Cures, explanation of Christian Science, 294
          Dana, Dr., on symptoms of psychasthenic pain, 183
          Dancing, the instinct for, 387
          Dark, the fear of the, 99
          Daydreaming, 333
          Death, dread of, 99, 428
          Deception, mental, 286
          Decision, practice of, 342; definition of,
              343; cultivating the habit of, 345; sports and outdoor games means for acquiring the
            habit, 346
          De-concentration, method of mental, 366
          Deep breathing, effect of, on mind, 45
          Defectives and degenerates, 250
          Degenerate, the, and his tendencies, 339
          Delirium, period of, in hysteria, 232
          Delusions, fear a cause of, 49; ancient
            health, 80; diagnostic, 134
          Dementia praecox, 206
          Depression, causes of mental, 35; and fear,
              47; periodic, 160; in hypochondria, 235;
            and religious influence, 428
          Depressing literature, the bad effect of, 446
          Dercum, Dr., on mental healing, 363
          Desire, human, a cause of worry, 54
          Despair, and Christ's teachings, 497
          Despondency, religious, 431
          Deterioration of race, causes of the, 15
          Determinism, and free will, 338
          Diabetes, a cause of, 116; and
            neurasthenia, 135
          "Diary" cure, 425; the therapeutic, 424; importance of keeping a, 426; of a psychasthenic, 433
          Diet, and migraine, 249; and foods, 402; suggestions for a, 404; for alcoholics, 414
          Dietetic, fads, the harm of, 402
          Digestion, influence of mind on, 25, 40; and walking, 477
          Dirt, unreasonable dread of, 98
          Discipline, teaching of, to children, 260;
            the value of, in overcoming indecision, 348
          Discontentment, 431; and extravagance,
              511
          Disease, and mind, 29; and fear, 39; influence of faith on infections, 39; caused by worry, 69; dread of, 98, 360; a cause of neurasthenia, 149; chronic and acute, 192; poisons of, a cause of hysteria, 225;
            incurable, and good humor, 466; and the
            teachings of Christ, 498

          Disorders, "borderland" nervous, 10;
            nervous, and superstition, 80; digestive,  secretory, respiratory, and circulatory, 168
          Disposition, eccentric, 270
          Disturbance, sensory, 165
          Dizziness, symptom of neurasthenia, 163
          Dogma vs. drugs, 501
          Doll, significance of the, 385
          Domestic life, 262
          "Dope fiend," making of a, 411
          Dowie, John Alexander, and his healing methods, 298; and the devil, 304
          Dowieism, 296
          Drama, and its healing function, 353
          Dread, as cause of premonitions, 101
          Dreads, definite, 95; memory, and dreams,
              100; treatment of, 103
          Dream, the, and psychanalysis, 9; a
            borderland nervous disorder, 10; effect of
            unremembered, 100; effect of, on working
            capacity, 101; and premonition, 102; reliance to be placed on, 102; psychasthenic state and, 216; apparitions, hallucinations and, 247; as disturber of peaceful mind state, 247; length of, 247;
            physical causes of, 247; most common kinds of,
              248; explanation of falling sensation in,
              248; accidental character of, 248; sexual interpretation of, 356; the harmful effect of terrorizing, on neurasthene, 401
          Drink, the craving for, 416; and the idle
            rich, 471
          Drinker, habits of the periodical, 112,
              413; the moderate, 415; past and future of, 417; advice to the, 417
          Drudgery, unnecessary, of the housewife, 512
          Drugless treatment of pain, 420
          Drugs, and blood-pressure, 112; the danger
            of, 153; and hysteria, 225; faith in, to be discouraged, 286; relaxation vs., 384;
            the necessity of avoiding, 410
          Dubois, 11, 34; on human desire, 54;
            on causes of nervousness, 63; on neurasthenia,
              132; on predisposition for neurasthenia,
              144; on mental origin of neurasthenia,
              146; on psychasthenia, 211; on hysteria, 226; on
            mental discipline, 259; on activity of sensory
            mechanism, 277; on reason, 324; on therapeutics of will-training, 334; on home environment, 393; advice to drinkers, 417
          Ductless glands, 30
          Dypsomania, the road to and how to avoid, 415
          Dyspepsia, 202; and suggestion, 292; cause and cure of, 403
          Eating, influence of, on thinking, 26
          Eccentricity, 270
          Eddy, Mrs., and her teachings, 290, 304; see Christian Science
          Education, and neurasthenia, 18
          Efficiency, impairment of, by fatigue, 459
          Effort and ease, the results of, 386
          Egg-nog, nutritive value, 403
          Egotism, unhealthy, 161; defined, 364
          Electricity, galvanic, a treatment for neurasthenic pains, 186; the remedial value of, 396
          Elimination, and brain action, 28
          Emotion, uncontrolled, 36; power of, over
            circulation, 37; harmful, 212; and hysteria, 226;
            and will-power, 332; relief of repressed,
              351; sex, 354; physiology of, 358;
            characteristics of, 359; and religious worship,
              431; training of, 505
          Emotional equilibrium, 212

          

          Emotions, influence of on heart action, 37;
            on brain and nervous system, 47; James-Lange
            theory of, 132; the mechanism of, 132; in psychasthenics, 211; the practice of good, 325; regulating of, 332;
            in relation to expenditure of energy, 333
          Employment, detriments of solitary, 265;
            the value of suitable, 469
          Endurance, influenced by mind, 42
          Energy, leakage of, 88; and emotion,
              333
          Enjoyment of life, the four essentials in the, 327
          Ennui in neurasthenia, 122
          Environment, and the neurasthenic, 12;
            necessity of wholesome, of mother, to insure healthy nervous system in child, 257; handicaps of, 393
          Epicurus, value of study, 442
          Epileptoid period, the, in hysteria, 232
          Epilepsy, pseudo, 249
          Equilibrium, emotional, 212; maintaining
            mental, 504
          Etiquette, false, of society, 512
          Eugenics, scientific, 272
          Eurhythmics, 398
          Evolution, a defect in hereditary, 214
          Exercise, the relation of, in regard to mental action, 24; the value of, as cure for hypochondriacs, 238; harmonious, 266; physical, 397
          Exertion, curative value of, 469
          Exhaustion, nervous, see neurasthenia; definition of, 5
          Extravagance, neurological, 264
          Eye, sensitiveness of, to light, 166
          Fad, harm of the dietetic, 402; the medical
            and surgical, 406
          Failure and loneliness, 358
          Faintness between meals, 403
          Faith, influence of, on mind emotions and heart action, 37; stimulating effect of, on circulation, 39; as factor in resisting infectious diseases, 39; as means of producing good digestion, 40; effect of, on muscular system, 42; and physical and mental poise, 43; and laughter, 43; assisting skin elimination, 44; and deep breathing, 45; and physical condition of brain, 47; value
            of, in obtaining refreshing sleep, 47; and
            nervous control, 48; a nerve tonic, 48; invigorating qualities of, 49; stimulating influence of on appetite, 49; and keenness of senses, 49; mental happiness, physical health, and, 50; an agent to normalize blood-pressure, 109; as preventive of high tension, 113; and electric treatment in psychasthenia, 186; and belief in treatment and remedies, 279; helpful influence of religious, 284; as principle in Christian Science, 291; and fear, the basis of divine healing cults, 296; as health producer, 298; in regard to mysteries and miracles, 298; and therapeutic suggestion, 300; sincerity of, in healing treatment, 304; as remedy in overcoming worry, 305; influence of, on body functions, 319; and reason, remedial value of, 325; example of wrong religious, 432; and optimism, 432;
            and Bible study, 452; in prayer, 496; religious, as remedy in nervous states, 498; the "force of life," 499; and obedience, 499;
            Christian, highest spiritual force, 499;
            tremendous power of, on mind and body, 500;
            preventive against soul and body maladies, 500;
            and self-mastery, 505

          

          "Faith-healing" cults, 81
          Faith ideas vs. fear ideas, 279
          Faker, the medical, 203
          Falling sensation in dreams, explanation of, 248
          Family, the psychopathic, 17; hygiene of
            the, 256
          Fashion, slavery to, 85
          Fatigue, as a symptom of neurasthenia, 165;
            psychasthenic, 214; chronic, in mental
            hysteria, 225; resulting from nervous
            irritation, 372; and headache, 393; muscular and mental, 394; vs. efficiency, 459
          Fear, definition of chronic, 5; and
            elevation of blood-pressure, 5; chronic, second
            nature of hypochondriac, 7; and our readers,
              8; chronic, classified, 9; hereditary, 19;
            protecting child from morbid, 19; and bad
            breathing, 24; and auto-suggestion, 37; and heart action, 37; as depressant on circulation, 39; as productive of toxins harmful to human organism, 39; the effect of, on maternal state, 40; and bad digestion, 40; as factor in decreasing power of muscular system, 42; the effect of, on secretory functions, 42; expressed in man's slovenly carriage, 43; compared with poison toxins, 43; and muscle spasms, 43; effect of, on skin elimination, 44; and goose flesh, 45;
            and superficial breathing, 45; the effect of,
            on body organs, 45; and coughing, 46; in regard to asthma and hayfever, 47; depressing mental activities, 47; and unnatural rest, 47; and insomnia, 48; as
            waster of energy, 48; a leading cause of
            neurasthenia, 48; and food-desire, 49; influence of, on senses, 49; as cause of hysteria blindness, 49; and delusions, 49;
            mental despair, physical disease, and, 50; a
            functional mind disorder, 51; and psychic
            dyspepsia, 52; moral, a cause of worry, 53; and desire, 54; imaginary difficulties and, 55; of lightning and similar phenomena, 57; trifles and, 57;
            sexual instincts influenced by, 64; physical
            sensations and, 65; self-consciousness and
            mental uneasiness a cause of, 66; of death,
              70, 99; of old age, 73; fads and, 73; superstition and, 80; of open spaces (agoraphobia), 87; insistance of ideas and, 87; spiders and mice as causes of, 88; incessant neurotic, 88; tension and, 91; phobias and, 95; of altitude, 96; of being crowded, 97;
            locomotor ataxia and, 98; hysterical palsies
            and, 98; of microbes, 98; of insanity, 99,
              152, 163, 213; of animals,
              99; of the dark, 100; the belief in premonitions and, 101 ; presentiment and, 102; and Carl Schurz, 103; treatment of, 103; mental discipline and, 104; as agent to elevate blood-pressure, 109; religion and, 113;
            exhaustive effect of, 133; of committing
            suicide in neurasthenia, 134; acuteness of, a
            gauge for neurasthenic state, 137; chronic,
            underlying cause of four neurasthenic states, 160; magnification of, 161; of fainting, 163; cancer, stomach trouble,and heart disease,
              169; unnatural sensations and, 175; pain and acute, 178; the Mohammedans and death, 179; in cerebral neurasthenia, 201; sexual disease and, 204; of losing one's position, 218; in hysteria, 225;
            obsessions and, in hypochondria, 239; of large
            crowds, 245; tremors and, 246; stage fright and, 246; hallucinations and baseless, 247; necessity
            of  avoiding, in nervous states, 258; deleterious impressions of, on child mind, 259; substituting faith for, 279, 306; incomplete
            digestion and, 283; deliverance from, and
            Christian Science, 291; overcoming, by emotion
            of faith, 293; and faith, basis of divine
            healing cults, 296; as producer of disease,
              298; indifference to, and self ridicule,
              306; mental confusion and, 307; of poisoning, 312; physical functions and, 319; the practice of discounting, 323; criticism of reason and, 324; repression of emotions in childhood and, 351; exaggerated sensations of, 360; elimination of, by "writing cure," 424; an example of overcoming, 425; of appearing in public, 428; example of terrorizing, 429; attainment of goal and foolish, 442; Marcus Aurelius on reason and, 447; helpful passages from the Holy Writ to overcome, 452; spiritual imposition as preventive of, 501; of criticism and ridicule, 509
          Fechner, on the intensity of sleep, 170
          Feeble-mindedness, 250
          Feeling, absence of, in hysteria, 227;
            misinterpretation of, 270
          Feet, treatment for cold, 401
          Fever, hysterical, 229
          Fire panic and psychic contagion, 310
          Fishing, fascination of, 379
          Food, pure, and pure thought, 26; reduction
            of, 403
          Football, the popularity of, 379; instinct
            for analyzed, 381
          Force, lack of, 430
          Forel, Dr., 14; on rest and sleep, 265; on pleasure-seeking, 269; on the value of suggestion in medicine, 301
          Forest life, racial mementoes of our ancestral, 377
          Forethought vs. worry, 52
          Forgetfulness, as a symptom of hysteria, 227
          Fortune teller, fraud of the, 286
          Fraternity, and its function of relaxation, 388
          Fraud and fakery, 287
          Freedom of will, the, 339
          Fresh air, and the mental state, 22
          Fretting, 61
          Freud, on psycho-neuroses, 283
          Functional disorders, and mind cure, 275;
            diagnosis of nervous, 321; as affecting
            emotions, 360
          Gallstones, fictitious, in hysteria, 229
          Galton, Sir Francis, predisposed to psychasthenia, 213
          Games and recreation, 377
          Gastric juice, production of, 40
          Genius, and nervous affliction, 441
          Germ plasm, the, 15
          Glands, ductless, 30
          Globe-trotting and its value, 268
          God, practice of the presence of, 502
          Golden rule, application of the, 482
          Golf, restorative power of, 384
          Good cheer, valuable effect of, 481
          Good humor, powerful help of, 465; an
            example of, 466
          Good nature, art of, 465
          Goose-flesh, 45
          Grief, chronic, 236
          Gross, on play and its value, 377
          Habit, physiology of, 81; psychology of,
              82; forming of a mental, 83; tyranny of, 83; the
            nervous rhythm of, 91; pain, 176; conquering a, 339
          Habits, nervous, and remedies, 92; regular,
            and their effect on; migraine, 249; regular, a
            part of positive hygiene, 258

          

          Hale, Edward Everett, on worry, 52
          Hall, Stanley, on play, 377
          Hallucinations and fear, 49; analysis of,
              246
          Happiness, constant striving after, a cause of worry, 54; and Christian Science, 291
          Hayfever, influence of the mind on, 46
          Headache, 162, 181; neurasthenic, 163;
            remedies for, 164; hysterical, 230; sick, or migraine, 248; as result of fatigue, and treatment, 393
          Headache powder, harm of, 410
          Healing, mental, 276; religious, 287; bogus systems of divine, 287, 296; magnetic,
              288; the law of mental, 297
          Healing cults, the success of, 362
          Healing power, faith as, 297
          Health, and Christian Science, 291; the
            secret of happiness and, 511
          Health delusions, ancient, 80
          Health fads, 73
          Healthy impulses and sound thinking, 313
          Hearing and smelling, disturbance of, 166
          Heart, the peripheral, 38
          Heart action, effect of emotions on the, 37; effect of drugs on the, 410
          Heart disease, groundless fear of, 169
          Heart failure and blood-pressure, 113,
              117
          Heart regulation and fear, 45
          Heat, regulation, the effect of mind on the body, 44; effect of, on blood-pressure, 396
          Heat and cold, sensations of, 45;
            application of, in headaches, 395
          Hereditary evolution, a defect in, 214
          Hereditary form of neurasthenic states, a definition of, 6
          Heredity and environment, 11; as influenced
            by education, 18; in hysteria, 224
          Hero, how to become a, 346
          Heroin, harmful effect of, 411
          Hirsch, on the influence of the mind on the body heat regulation, 44
          Hobby, a, and the "blues," 238; and system,
              263; necessity of a, 271
          Home environment, handicaps of, 393
          Hope, cultivation of, 324
          Household, administration of, 263
          Housekeeping, burdensome, 512
          Human interest, the value of, 483
          Hydrophobia, pseudo-, 44
          Hydrotherapy, treatment by, for neurasthenic pains, 185
          Hygiene, general, of the nervous system, 255; positive and negative, 257; and natural
            sleep, 264; and nature culture, 266; for women, 269; in adolescence, 269;
            of old age, 271
          Hypnotism, in regard to psychotherapy, 9;
            state of, described, 289; doubtful value of,
              290; wrong ideas of the nature of, 290; not a cure, 303; Bernheim on, 334
          Hypochondria, definition of, 7; as result
            of worry, 69; distinction between melancholia
            and, 235; symptoms of, 237; treatment of, 238
          Hypochondriac, pains of the, 184
          Hypochondriasis, definition of, 8
          Hypocrisy, beneficial therapeutic, 463
          Hysteria, definition of, 6, 222; in olden times, 221; cause of, 222,
              224; epidemical, 225; symptoms of, 226;
            simulations of, 228; attacks of, divided into
            five periods, 231; special treatment of,
              232
          Hysterical fever, 229

          

          Ice bag, use of in raising blood-pressure, 395
          Idea and mind, 301
          Ideas, uncontrolled, 121; producing unreal
            sensations through, 175; regulating, 332; elimination of unhealthy, 353
          Idiosyncrasies, 88
          Idle rich, the, 471
          Ill humor, treatment of, 481
          Illness and warped judgment, 440
          Imaginary worry, 53
          Imagination, power of, 37; uncontrolled, in
            hysteria, 222; and "psychic seed sowing,"
              278
          Imitation, epidemics of, 309
          Immanuel movement, the, 296
          Immorality, sex-teachings as a cause of, 357
          Impersonation, and its valuable effects, 463
          Imposters, and the public credulity, 286
          Inaction, bane of, 470
          Incapacity, psychasthenia causing, 215
          Indecision, general, 162; and will-power,
              342; a manacle to will, 344; and discipline, 348
          Indigestion, neurasthenia as cause of, 114;
            treatment of nervous, 202
          Industrial precedence, explanation of, 116;
            slavery, the tension of, 472
          Industry, modern, as cause of breakdown, 473
          Inebriety, the woes of, 416; treatment of,
              417-419
          Infectious diseases influenced by faith, 39; and neurasthenia, 153
          Infirmity, 68
          Influence, pre-natal, and birth marks, 18;
            supernatural, 288; the harmonizing, of play,
              387; religious, on alcoholics, 419; religious, in relation to depression, 429
          Injection, a harmless, and indirect suggestion, 312
          Insanity, fear of, 152, 163; dementia praecox, 206; and hysterical attacks, 223; following pregnancy and childbirth, 269; and play, 388
          Insomnia, 170; and muscle relaxation,
              374; and "naps," 401; a remedy of, 402;
            cereals, a diet that aggravates, 404
          Instinctive joy, 383
          Intelligence, moral, and the church, 320
          Intercourse, necessity of social, 262; and
            the Bible, 267
          Interest, value of human, 483
          Intoxication and hysteria, 225
          Introspection, psychasthenic, 216
          Irritability, the "day of rest" a cure for, 460
          Irritation and fatigue, 372
          Isolation rest cure, the, 458
          Jack-knife, theory of the, 378
          Jacoby, Dr., on psychic vomiting, 41; on
            the training of emotions in childhood, 505
          James, Professor, on prayer as a therapeutic measure, 493
          James-Lange theory of emotions, 132
          Janet, discoverer of psychasthenia, 210
          Jaques-Dalcroze, gospel of, 398
          Jealousy, influence of, on nervous system, 353
          Jig-saw puzzle, cure through the, 436
          Job, afflictions of, 192
          Job, essentials of a good, 473-476
          Johnson, Samuel, on melancholy, 400
          Joy, instinctive, 383
          Kellogg, Dr., contrasting city and country in regard to neurasthenia, 148
          Kenophobia, 95
          "Kicking habit," chronic, 57
          Kidney, a case of floating, 407

          

          Labor, joy of productive, 125
          Laughter, value of, 482
          Lesion, definition of, 8
          Life, the strenuous, a cause of neurasthenia, 130; value of the recreational, 256; a systematic control of the daily, 263; four essentials to the enjoyment of, 327; high-pressure, and drugs, 413; optimism of, 508;
            victorious, 510
          Light, and sensitiveness of eyes, 166
          Light-heartedness, the boon of, 482
          Literature, depressing, and its bad effect, 446; value of unexciting, 449
          Living, careless, 14
          Living, easy, art of, 326
          Loneliness, and nervousness, 357
          Love, conceived in pain and born in sorrow, 193; its mission, 327
          Lowell, James Russell, and hypochondria, 238
          Loyalty, in regard to work, 475
          Luxury, delusions of, 511
          Mania, the surgical, 407
          Manifestations, mind influence on respiratory, 46; accidental and transient, in hysteria, 226; supernatural, 288
          Marcus Aurelius, on worry, 447
          Marden, and the handicaps of worry, 59
          "Marking" of children, the, and popular superstitions, 257
          Martin, Dr., and his experiments, 459
          Massage, value of, in neurasthenia, 186;
            and electricity, as treatment for nervous states, 396
          Mastery, the power of, 474
          Materialism, the development of scientific, 276
          Mathematics, study of, as a means of practicing concentration, 316; and poetry, the use of, in "reading cure," 450
          Maxims for nervous patients, 313
          Mayo, Dr. William, on advisability of surgical operations on neurasthenics, 407
          Meat eating, and neurasthenia, 157
          Mechanisms of emotions, the, 132
          Medical faker, the, 203
          Medical inspection of child, importance of, 260
          Melancholia, see also hypochondria; definition of, 7; and neurasthenia, 134; distinction between hypochondria and, 235; simple, 239;
            treatment of, 240
          Memory and worry, 52; training of, 322; lost, 352; development of, by mathematics, 450
          Memory deceptions, and premonitions, 102
          Memory disorders, treatment of, 321
          Memory ghosts, 360
          Memory loss, in hysteria, 228
          Mental condition, and physical condition, 34
          Mental control, defective, and mind cure, 277
          Mental deception, 286
          Mental depression and causes, 35, 47
          Mental discipline, 259
          Mental healing, and pseudoepilepsy, 250;
            and mysticism, 287; the law of, 298
          Mental influence, the, on metabolism, 42;
            over special senses, 49
          Mental medicine, 275
          Mental messages, and nervous system, 36
          Mental occupations, to combat the "blues," 238
          Mental state, and fresh air, 22; and heart
            action, 37; and respiration, 45; in hysteria, 222
          Mental work and rest, relative to worry, 66

          

          Metabolic poisons, as factor in neurasthenia, 151
          Metabolism, and mind, 27; mental influence
            on, 42
          Metamorphosis of pre-natal life, embryological, and the nervous system, 257
          Metchnikoff, on the dread of death, 99
          Method, conversational, of reeducating will, 281
          Migraine, or sick headache, 248; a diet
            for, 249
          Milk, hot, as remedy for insomia, 402;
            dietetic value of eggs and, 403
          Mind, influence of physical health on, 22;
            digestion influenced by, 25; and blood stream,
              26; and the use of drugs, 27; the effect of rest and recreation on, 28; power of, over body, 29, 33; influence of, on
            vital resistance, 38; influence of, on
            digestion, 40; effect of, on muscular system,
              42; effect of, on skin, and body heat
            regulation, 44; influence of, on asthma and
            hayfever, 46; habit tension of, 80; the ability of, to recognize unreal sensations,
              174; the American citizen's peculiar, 287; and idea, 302; concentration of, 317; and will-power, 330; the effect of alcohol
            on the, 413
          Mind centers, as affected in hysteria, 224
          Mind cure, fraudulent, 180; utilized
            thousands of years, 275; scientific, 276
          Mind poisons, and oxygen, 23
          Mirror-habit, the, and self-pity, 446
          Misophobia, 98
          Mitchell, Weir, on the fear of cats, 99
          Modern industry, a cause of breakdown, 473
          Mohammedan, the, and pain, 179
          Moll, on respiratory oppression, 46; on
            obsessions, 87
          Monotony, and variety, in one's work, 474
          Moods, mastery of, 504
          Moral intelligence and church, 320
          Morphine, effect of, on blood-pressure, 113; the danger of, 411, 419
          Mother Nature, a good nurse, 368
          Moving picture craze, the, 375
          Muscle manifestations, 167
          Muscle rigidity, and sleep, 374
          Muscular cramps in hysteria, 227
          Muscular system, paralysis in, 231; effect
            of mind on, 42; influence of faith, fear,
            cheerfulness on, 43
          Muscular tension and motor nerves, 168
          Music, and rhythmic order, 398; the
            quieting effect of, 465
          Mystery, effect of, in Christian Science, 294
          Mysticism, and mental healing, 287
          Narcotics, necessity of avoiding, 410
          Nature, influence of, on nervous state, 266; elemental forces of, and fear, 323
          Nature study, benefits of, 445
          Near-neurasthenic, the, and useful work, 130
          Nephritis, diagnosed, 136
          Nerve cells, 36; identity of, unchanged
            through life, 255
          Nerve centers, the action of, 48
          Nerve irritants, condiments as, 156
          Nerve stamina, conservation of, 256
          Nerves, nutrition of, 48; the motor, as
            cause of muscular tension, 168
          Nervous diseases, differentiation of, 14;
            caused by worry, 69
          Nervous disorders, borderland,  10; migraine, one of most common, 249
          Nervous disturbances, recognition of, 14
          Nervous functions, and effect of faith and fear, 49
          Nervous indigestion, treatment of, 202
          Nervous prostration, 69; and low
            blood-pressure, 110
          Nervous states, summary of, 9;
            differentiation of, 13
          Nervous system, tissues of, 16; and
            "mental" messages, 36; influence of emotions
            on, 47; control of, 48; depletion of, 67;
            behavior of, 137; a tyrant of the body, in
            neurasthenia, 138; resistive powers of, 138; as a home of habit, 176; and general hygiene, 255; heredity and prophylaxis in relation to the, 257; successful "management" of the, 258; built up by "decision," 343; and jealousy, 353
          Nervous taint, 16
          Nervous tension, slavery of, 84; in
            relation to system and order, 89; and
            cool-headedness, 90
          Nervousness, common causes of worry and, 63; the child mind and, 63; general, and
            diseases, 128
          Neuralgia and hysteria, 227
          Neurasthene, the, and his weapons, 308
          Neurasthenia, definition of, 5; subclasses
            of, 6; inherited tendency of, 14; fear in its relation, to, 48; and indigestion, 114;
            general characteristics of, 128; classification
            of, 130; accidental or acquired, 131; the physiology of, 132; the mechanism of emotions and, 132; mistaken for melancholia, 134; the aged and, 135;
            nervous system in, 137; symptoms of, 139; five kinds of, 139; causes of, 143;
            world-wide, 147; city and country, 148; poisons as factors in, 150; and nerve irritants, 156; cerebral, 162;
            spinal, 164; and real and imaginary pain,
              174; five special forms of, 201; treatment of spinal, 202; gastric, 202; sexual,
              203; traumatic, 207; compared with hysteria, 222
          Neurasthenic, the average, 19
          Neurasthenic factors, heredity and environment as, 11; pain, treatment of, 185; states, classification of, 3; subdivisions
            of, 4; hereditary form of, 6; terms, definition of, 4
          Neurasthenoidia, definition of, 5; and
            ennui, 122; a typical case of, 123; remedial methods for, 124; and love, 125
          Neurologist's advice, a, 440
          Neurotic, nervous hygiene of the, 272
          Neurotic influences, early, 63; taint,
            ancestral, 11
          Neurosis, classification of functional, 3;
            definition of, 8; a cure of, after years of
            unsuccessful treatment, 262
          New Thought movement, 295
          Nicotine habit, breaking of the, 411
          Nutrition, disordered, 25
          Obsessions, psychic, 84; common motor,
              86
          Occult, love of the, 286
          Occupation, mental, to combat the "blues," 238; diversity of, 265;
            cure, 469
          Old age, ductless glands and; 30; general
            hygiene in, 271
          Operation, necessity for surgical, 406
          Optimum mode of living, the, 256
          Orleans, the Maid of, 224
          Osler, on blood-pressure, 114
          Osteopathy and pseudo-epilepsy, 250
          Outdoor life, best form of recreation, 268;
            sleeping, 401; 
            sports, a means to develop the "decision habit," 346
          Out-of-doors, the, a help to hypochondriacs, 239
          Over-attention, chronic, 217
          Over-exertion, the safety margin of, 264
          Over-feeding, danger of, 402
          Overwork, mental, 116; a mistaken case of,
              136; a cause of neurasthenia, 144
          Oxygen, and mind poisons, 23
          Pain, imaginary, 174; habit or
            post-convalescent, 176; real and unreal,
              178; curing imaginary, 179; examples of neurasthenic, 181; neurotic, defined, 182; psychasthenic, and symptoms, 183; the
            hypochondriac's, 184; neurasthenic, 185; the purpose of, 188; inability to discern cause of, 189; as preventative of indulgences, 191; the results of, 194;
            the personal factor in, 196; as danger signal,
              196; hysterical ovarian, 227; mind concentration and, 318; chronic, and relaxation, 375; treatment of, without drugs, 420
          Palmist, fraud of the, and human susceptibility, 286
          Pancreatic juice, 35
          Panic, fire, and psychic contagion, 310;
            psychic, 360
          Paralysis agitans, 47
          Paralysis, 113; muscular, a form of
            hysteria, 231
          Partridge, on nervous hygiene, 256; on will training, 334; on the optimum mode of living, 508
          Pascal, on self-control, 507
          Passion, and reason, 417
          Passional attitudes, in hysteria, 232
          Patent medicine, use of, in neurasthenia, 157; a pain killer, not a cure, 189; habit of,
            and suggestion, 279; unreasonable faith in,
              286
          Pathophobia, 98
          Patriotism, therapeutic, 281
          Patrick, Professor, on play and recreation, 378; on relaxation and fatigue, 382
          Pawlow, and his experiments, 40
          Peculiarities, temperamental, a cause of worry, 55
          Pershing, on James-Lange theory of emotions, 132
          Personality, hysteria a disorder in, 222;
            multiple, 224; and suggestion, 305
          Perspiration, psychic influence on and how to overcome excessive, 318; beneficial effect of, 398
          Persuasion, a part of educational therapeutics, 319; vs. argument, 320
          Pessimism, the effect of useful work on, 272
          Phenacetin, the harm of, 410
          Phenomena, spiritualistic, 288
          Philosophers, helpful views of ancient, 446
          Phobias, specialized, 95
          Phobophobia, or the dread of dread, 96
          Phrenologist, the, and the gullible public, 286
          Physical conditions, affecting the health of the child, 29
          Physical culture fads, the uselessness of, 398
          Physical functions, fear, in regard to, 319
          Physical treatment, outline of, for neurasthenes, 405
          Physician, the, of the future, as mental minister, 255; the patient's faith in the, and hope, 325; necessary frankness of the, 440
          Play, and rest, 261; and its purpose,
              327, 378; the psychology of, 377; unwholesome substitutes for, 384;
            distinction between boys' and girls', 385;
            educational value of, 386; social function of,
              387; in relation to crime, 388; as a  cure,
              460; wrong kind of, 463; the suggestion element in, 463
          Playground, the value of the public, 376
          Pleasure-seeking, as a cause of restlessness, 268
          Pledge, and cure of inebriety, 419
          Poetry, helpfulness of, in treatment, 451
          Poisoning, fear of, and suggestion, 312
          Poisons, metabolic, a cause of neurasthenia, 150; effect of fatigue, 152
          Potatoe, value of the, as a staple diet, 404
          Prayer, and faith in mental healing, 298;
            the value of, 488; definition of, 489; physiology of, 492; as a therapeutic agent, 493; the perversion of, 494; the harm of, in given cases, 495; as an
            inspiration to work, 496
          Precedence, industrial, explained, 116
          Predisposition, in hereditary neurasthenia, 143
          Pregnancy, hygiene of, 17; insanity
            following, 269
          Premonitions, origin of, 101
          Pre-natal influence on nervous state, 18
          Pre-natal life, and nervous system, 257
          Presentiments, unfulfilled, 103
          Press, significance of the space devoted to sports in the daily, 380
          Preyer, and auto-suggestion, 44, 45
          Prodromal stage, in hysteria, 231
          Proverbs, perverted, and worry, 76
          Pseudo-hydrophobia, 44
          Pseudo-paralysis, 49
          Pseudo-psychotherapy, 286
          Psychalgia, definition of, 9
          Psychanalysis, definition of, 9; the value
            of, 282; principles of, 336; the method of, 351;
            sane, 363
          Psychasthene, the, born, not made, 214;
            history of a, 217
          Psychasthenia, or true brain fag, definition of, 6; an inheritance, 143;
            analysis of, 210; causes of, 211; symptoms of, 212; active and latent forms of, 213; an hereditary defect, 214; wrong treatment of, 217; remedies for, 218
          Psychasthenic pain, symptoms of, 183
          Psychatoxia, definition of, 9
          Psychiatry, definition of, 9
          Psychic, defined, 9; obsessions, 84; vomiting, 41
          Psychokinesia, defined, 9
          Psychoneurosis, defined, 9
          Psychosensory, defined, 9
          Psychosis, defined, 9
          Psychotherapy, defined, 9; evolution of,
              275; another definition of, 277; pseudo-, 286; an ideal cure of, 320; sectarian, 362
          Puberty, and its effects, 64; the influence
            of, on the mentality, 204; period of,
            coinciding with appearance of psychasthenia, 213; stuttering, a phenomenon appearing during period of, 254
          Pulse, affections of the, 169;
            intermittent, 214
          Pure food, and pure thought, 26
          Race deterioration, causes of, 15
          Reading, nervousness affecting, 165; the
            value of regular, and study, 448
          Reading course, a valuable, 454
          Reason, effect of emotions on, 333; and
            temper, 362
          Reasoning, superficial, 161
          Recreation, vs. pleasure seeking, 267;
            relaxation and, 371; in baseball and football,
              379; in fishing, 379

          

          Reeducation, method of, 336
          Reflection and will-power, 333
          Regret, uselessness of, 361
          Regularity and a daily program, 486
          Relaxation, the art of, 261; the practice
            of, 373; in relation to resistance, 375; psychology of, 382; unwholesome means to gain, 384; found in religion and society, 388
          Relics, adoration of, 286
          Religion, and the blood-pressure, 113; and
            hysteria, 221; and healing, 287; as a mode of relaxation, 388; and its effect in cases of alcoholics, 419; the modern dangers to, 500
          Religious faith, influence of, 284;
            despondency, 431; fanaticism, 70; influence, 419
          Repression, emotional, 357
          Rescue mission, the good work of the, 419
          Reserve, emotional, 353
          Resistive power, the, of nervous system, 138
          Respiration and the mental state, 45
          Respiratory manifestations, influence of mind on, 46
          Responsibility, a cause of worry, 56
          Rest, effect of, on mind, 28; the problem
            of tension and, 256; work and, defined in
            reference to treatment, 458; and over-feeding,
              458
          "Rest cure" and work, 400; the isolation,
              458
          Rest day, the value of the weekly, 459
          Rheumatism, and worry, 116
          Rhythm, nervous, of habit, 91; meaning and
            value of, 399
          Richardson, Dr. B. W., on tea, 156
          Ridicule, good-natured, as a mind cure, 306
          Rigidity, muscular, and nervous tension, 91; and sleep, 374
          Rivalry, rousing the instinct of, 386
          Romberg, on arteriosclerosis and neurasthenia, 114
          "Rush," modern spirit of, 373
          St. Vitus' dance, simulated, 231;
            definition, description, and treatment of, 243;
            epidemics of, 309
          Safety, the margin of, in nervous tension, 264
          Samaritan work, the value of, in curing nervous disorders, 482
          Satisfaction, attainment of moral, 506
          School room, ventilation of the, 260
          Schurz, Carl, and his premonition of death, 103
          Science, modern and Christian, 291
          Scientific eugenics, 272
          Seasickness, psychic, 41
          Secretion, effects of, 35
          Secretions of body, 40; as affected in
            hysteria, 229
          Self-analysis, 355
          Self-consciousness, a cause of worry, 66;
            and stammering, 245
          Self-control, 54; modern need of, 329; cultivation of, 506
          Self-denial, will power and, 340
          Self-depreciation, a factor in failure in life, 305, 430
          Self-discipline, the teaching of, in Christian Science, 293
          Self-drugging, the dangers of, 410
          Selfishness, 161; in prayer, 494
          Self-mastery, 18; the science of, 307; triumphant, 504; mental, 510
          Self-pity, 430
          Self-ridicule, 306
          Self-training, 18
          Seneca to Lucilius, on pain, 179
          Sensations, peculiar and unusual, a cause of worry, 65,  unreal, 174; minor, in hysteria, 231
          Sense disorders, 165
          Senses, mental influence over special, 49
          Sensory mechanism, activity of, 277
          Sensory nerves, and physical and psychic stimuli, 278
          Sex, neurasthenes, 203; hygiene, 205; ignorance, in regard to sexual neurasthenia,
              205; cycles, periodical, of women in regard
            to hysteria, 226; impulse, influence of,
              352; emotion, 354; madness., present day, 357
          Shrines, worship of, 286
          Silver-nitrate, treating the cigarette habit with, 411
          Simulation of hysteria, 228
          Sitophobia, dread of food, or, 96
          Skin, action and brain action, 28; effect
            of mind on heat regulation and, 44; sluggish
            circulation, and pale, 170
          Skull, vibrations of, 317
          Sleep and mind, 47; the intensity of,
              170; nervous hygiene and natural, 264; hypnotic, 289; and relaxation, 374;
            sound, 401
          Sleeping powders, the harm in, 410
          Sleeplessness, 170; overcoming, by neutral
            bath, 396; methods to allay, 461
          Smell, deranged, 166, 227
          Social functions, the waste of effort in, 512
          Social intercourse, necessity of, 262
          Somnambulism, 289
          Sorrow, the selfishness of, 361
          Soul, exercises for the, 308
          Sources of worry, physical, 71; social,
              74; industrial, 75
          Spasms, chronic, and tics, 244
          Speed, the racial instinct of, 378
          Spencer, Herbert, on play, 377
          Speyr, professor, on neurasthenics, 130
          Spines, neurasthenic, 164, 201
          Spinoza, on intelligence and will, 320
          "Spirit of infirmity," the, 68
          Spiritism, the supernatural and, 288
          Spiritualistic phenomena, 288
          Sport, the value of, 380
          Stammering, and self-consciousness, 245
          Starchy food, preparation of, 403
          Stimuli, physical and psychic, and their reaction, 278
          Stoicism, religious, 500
          Stomach, and mind, 25; pain of, in
            hysteria, 229
          Strain, relaxation and, 373; unnecessary,
            in sleep, 374
          Strenuous life, the, 130
          Study cure, the, 445

          Stuttering, serious aspects of, 244;
            adenoids, the cause of, 245
          Suffering, imaginary, 85; fastidious, and
            imaginary pain, 174; treatment of imaginary,
              185; the mission of purpose of, 188; the fellowship of, 193; results of, 194;
            racial, 195; exaggerated, in hypochondria,
              236
          Sugar diet, value of the, for alcoholics, 414
          Suggestion, a mind cure, 9; influence of,
            on muscular system, 43; yawning and, 46; premonitions and, 101; power of, in hysteria, 222; imitation and, in regard to hysteria, 225; effect of, on stuttering, 245; period of menopause and, 269; psychic seed sowing and, 278; therapeutic, 279,
              300; physical treatment and, 279; clairvoyants, phrenologists, palmists, etc.,
            and, 287; spiritism and, 288; hypnotism and, 289;
            dyspepsia and, 292; power of religious, 293; power  of, in
            divine healing cults, 296; definition of,
              300; psychology of, 301; basis of curative, 303; true and false, 303; antiquity of the use
            of, 303; Dowieism, Christian Science and,
              304; habit of reasoning and auto-, 304; the influence of, on imitation, 309; effect of, on sighing, coughing, yawning,
            laughing, 310; crime waves and, 310; power of, in daily press, 310; behavior of circulation and, 312; indirect, 320;
            Bernheim on, 334; element of, in play, 463; power of prayer and, 492
          Suicide, and melancholia, 240
          Sulphonal, harm of, 410
          Sunshine and cheerfulness, the influence of, 22
          Supernatural, the, 288
          Superstition, in nervous disorders, 80;
            medical, 286
          Surgery, relation of neurasthenia to, 406
          Surgical mania, 407
          Swedish movement, 396
          Sympathy, and persuasion, 280
          Symptoms, in neurasthenia, 139; four
            cardinal, in neurasthenia, 159; psychic,
              160; cerebral, 162; tired feeling, one of chief, in neurasthenia, 165; digestion, 168; psychasthenic, 215;
            in hysteria, 226; in hypochondria, 237
          System, order and, as factors in relieving nervous tension, 89
          Tango fad as help in nervous states, 267;
            recreation and the craze of, 375
          Taste, affections of the sense of 166;
            affections of, in hysteria, 227; false
            standards of, 511
          Tea, a cause of neurasthenia, 155; the
            harmful effects of, 410
          Teachings, ancient, of mind power over body, 33
          Telepathy, disproving the existence of, 288
          Temper, control of, 361; and happiness,
              511
          Temperamental peculiarity, a cause of worry, 55
          Tension, mental, and arterial tension, 110;
            high, and drug habit, 113; safety line in
            nervous, 264
          Terms, neurological, 8
          Terror, elimination of, 353
          Theater going, the harm in, 268
          Theology worry, 431
          Therapeutic patriotism, 281
          Therapeutics, suggestive, 278; defined,
              300; educational, 316
          Thirst, and over-seasoned foods, 414
          Thought, the influence of eating on, 26;
            wholesome, a part of nervous hygiene, 258;
            sound, healthy impulses, 313; defective, and
            remedy, 326; involuntary, 335
          Timidity, a cause of worry, 55
          Tobacco, and neurasthenia, 154; as cause of
            hysteria, 225; and relaxation, 384; harmful effect of, 410; treatment of habitual use of, 411
          Tolerance, 480
          Tolstoy, on faith, 499
          Tonsils, stuttering resulting from diseased, 245
          Touch, affections of the sense of, 166
          Townsend, Colonel, his heart action, 38
          Toxins, fatigue, 151; in neurasthenia,
              153
          Tramps as psychasthenics, 215
          Trance mediums, 288
          Transgressions, physical and mental, and results, 190
          Traumatism, 144
          Treatment of, alcoholism, 414, 418; chorea, or St. Vitus' dance, 243; cigarette habit, 411; dreads, 103, 280; gastric neurasthenia, 203; hallucinations, 247;
            headache (neurasthenic), 164; headache (hysterical), 230; headache (general), 394; hypochondria, 238; hysteria (special),
              232; hysteric blindness, 49; liquor habit, 267,
              417-419; melancholia, 240;
            migraine, 249; near-neurasthenia, 124; nervous fatigue, 394 nervous states-
              general, 9, 255, 392; by baths,
                  395; by massage and electricity, 396; by physical exercise, 397; by eurhythmics, 398; by work, 400; by rest and sleep,
                  401; by "writing cure," 424; by "study cure," 445; by "rest and play cure," 458; by "work cure," 469; by "social service cure," 480; by
                "faith and prayer cure," 488
             pain, 185, 420; pseudo-epilepsy (fainting spells), 250; pseudo-paralysis, 49;
            psychasthenia, 218; psychic vomiting, 41; sedentary habits, 477; sex emotion, 355; sex
            neurasthenia, 207; sleeplessness, 461; stammering, 274; tobacco habit, 411;
            tremors, 246
            
              scientific-of mental, maladies and superstition, 81; early, of child, 260; suggestion and physical, 279; of reeducating will, 281; of psychic disturbances, 284; Christian Science, 292; subterfuges and, 301; by suggestion, 304, 311; for will-building, 336; for mental deconcentration, 366; diet and, 404; daily outline of, for nervous states, 405
            
          Tremors, voluntary and involuntary, 246
          Triangle, the neurasthenic, 18
          Trifles, magnifying of, 57
          Trional, harm of, 410
          Truthfulness of physician to patient, 302
          Tumor, in hysteria, 231
          Tyranny of habit, 83
          Uncontrolled ideas, 121
          Unhealthy egotism, 161
          Unhealthy ideas, elimination of, 353
          Unmarried, the, and nervous states, 270
          Unnatural sensations and fear, 175
          Unreal sensations and disease, 174
          Unreasonable dread, 98
          Unusual sensations and worry, 65
          Vacation and rest, 401
          Variety in work, the value of, 474
          Vasomotor system, influence of mind on, 318
          Ventilation and nervous states, 23, 157
          Vibration, mechanical, treatment of pain in hypochondria, by, 186
          Virchow and hypochondria, 238
          Vital resistance, influence of mind on, 38
          Vitality and worry, 59
          Vittoz, Dr., on concentration, 317
          Vomiting, psychic, 41; manifestations of,
            in hysteria, 229
          Walking, curative value of, 477
          Walsh, on memory training, 322
          Walton, Dr., the maxims of, 313
          Watchfulness, apprehensive, a symptom in psychasthenia, 216
          Water-drinking, the effect of, on blood-pressure, 395
          Weariness, mental, 24
          Weather, and worry, 56; and moods, 438
          Welfare movements, participation in, as cure, 484
          Will, training mind to obey  mandates of, 18; mind control and, 69; reason, judgment and, as factors in brain control, 120; neurasthenoidic state and, 120; curing hysteria by training, 232; reeducation of, 281;
            influence of hypnotism on, 289; intelligence
            and, 320; exaltation of, 321; as the balance of mental power, 330; as character builder, 330; personal responsibility and, 331; overpowering emotion and, 332; interest and enthusiasm in training, 334; spontaneity of, 335;
            determinism and, 338; exercising the, 339; harm in breaking, 339; neglect in training, 340; decision and, 342;
            the ruler of man, 343; stifling, 344; strengthening of, by prayer, 492; subordination of, a necessity of civilized life,
              495; supreme, 507
          Will power, stimulating effect of, 16;
            child training and training of, 19; controlling
            hunger by, 41; autosuggestion and, 44; enfeebled, in psychasthenia, 214; loss of, in hysteria, 228; hypnotism and, 290;
            suggestion and, 305; as the object of
            psychotherapy, 307; the need of using, 319; a need of the hour, 329; as compared with intellectual culture, 329; reflection and, 333;
            dormant, 342; discontinuance of stimulants and,
              410; the moderate drinker and, 415
          Witchcraft and hysterics, 221
          Woman, the high-strung, 269
          Work, and the near-neurasthenic, 130;
            importance of congenial, 262; satisfaction in
            one's, 365; well-directed, 266; the mission of, 327; vs. rest, 400;
            satisfaction in product of one's, 475; loss of
            interest in one's, 476; prayer, an inspiration
            to, 496
          "Work cure," the, 469
          World reformers, 85
          Worry, definition of, 5, 51; caused by unnatural breathing, 45; keenness of brain and, 47; nerve starvation and, 48; a cause of disease, 50; effect of, on memory, 52; psychology of,
              52; causes of, 53; analysis of, 53; the
            constant "happiness desire" a cause of, 54;
            temperamental peculiarities and, 55; timidity,
            a cause of, 55; responsibility and, 56; the influence of the weather on, 56; trifles and, 57; the "kicking habit" and, 57; habitual, 58; the
            handicaps of, 58; the waste of, 60; causing illness, 60; common causes of nervousness and, 63; puberty and, 64;
            unusual sensations and, 65; excessive
            self-consciousness and, 66; mental work and,
              66; infirmity, a cause of, 68; fictitious,
              69; moral causes of, 70; religious fanaticism and, 70; physical causes of, 71; old age and, 72; health fads and, 73; social sources of, 74; industrial causes of, 75; perverted proverbs and their effect on, 76; high blood-pressure caused by, 109; religious, 111;
            apoplexy and heart failure induced by, 113;
            arteriosclerosis and, 114; Bright's disease,
            diabetes, gout, and rheumatism caused by, 116;
            overwork and, 116; chronic and neurasthenic,
              130, 136; fear of insanity and, 163; work and, 216;
            hysteria and, 224; the overthrow of, 305; cure of, 306; discounting, 323;
            reason and, 324; relaxation and, 388; the theology, 431; cured by work, 470;
            in regard to, what others think of one, 510

          

          Worship, as a factor in the enjoyment of life, 327; a primitive instinct, 332; the natural desire for, 488
          Writer's cramp, 245
          Yawning, the influence of the mind on, 46
          Zoology, study of, a help in nervous states, 266
          Zoophobia (fear of animals), 99
        
      
    
  
