
   ----CITATION---- 
        Merrill, Catharine, 1824-1900.. The man Shakespeare. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1823

   ----FULL TEXT----
        

      
      
      
        THE MAN SHAKESPEARE
          AND OTHER ESSAYS
        
      

      
      
      

        FRONTISPIECE
        
          
            FROM THE STEELE PORTRAIT
            Catharine Merrill
          
        
      

      

      
        
          THE MAN SHAKESPEARE
          
            AND OTHER ESSAYS
          
        
        BY
          CATHARINE MERRILL WITH IMPRESSIONS AND REMINISCENCES OF
          THE AUTHOR BY MELVILLE B. ANDERSON, AND WITH SOME WORDS OF
          APPRECIATION FROM JOHN MUIR
        
          THE BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY, PUBLISHERS
          INDIANAPOLIS
        
      

      
        VERSO

        COPYRIGHT 1902
        THE BOWEN-MERRILL
            COMPANY
        
      

      
        DEDICATION
        THESE ESSAYS HAVE BEEN GATHERED TOGETHER BY THE CATHARINE MERRILL CLUB
          IN GRATEFUL AND LOVING MEMORY OF HER WHOSE NAME THE CLUB BEARS.
      

      

      


      
        CONTENTS

        

          
            Catharine Merrill
            Page


            
              BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE
                1
                
              
              IMPRESSIONS AND REMINISCENCES.
                MELVILLE B. ANDERSON 6
                
              
               WORDS FROM AN OLD FRIEND. JOHN MUIR
                32
                
              
            

          


          
            The Man Shakespeare and Other Essays


            
              THE MAN SHAKESPEARE AS
                  REVEALED IN HIS WORKS
                41
                

              INDIANAPOLIS IN WAR TIME
                66
                

              THE RAINBOW. A MEMORY
                90
                


              LITERARY CRITICISM
                92
                


              PERSONAL LITERATURE OF THE VICTORIAN AGE
                114
                


              JOHN FOSTER
                123
                


              THE CHILD IN ENGLISH
                  LITERATURE
                134
                


              THE GENERAL; A CHARACTER SKETCH
                158
                


              MARTYRS TO FAITH
                162
                


              SOME THOUGHTS ABOUT
                  SOCIETY
                195
                
            
          
        

      

    

     

      
      
      
        THE MAN SHAKESPEARE AND OTHER ESSAYS

        

          CATHARINE MERRILL


          
            BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE

            Catharine Merrill was born at Corydon, Indiana, on January 24, 1824. Her father,
              Samuel Merrill, was Treasurer of State, and a few months later, when he removed the
              treasury to the new capital, Indianapolis, he took with him to their new home in the
              wilderness his household, including his little daughter.
            The father, Samuel Merrill, was a scholarly man, educated at Dartmouth College, and a
              classmate and friend of Thaddeus Stevens. He came of Vermont Puritan stock, and his
              marked Puritan traits of honesty and reverence for religion he transmitted to his
              daughter. One of his strongest characteristics was a love for books  that amounted almost to a passion. It was natural that
              Samuel Merrill should add to his duties as Treasurer of State the congenial task of
              instructing the younger folk, for whose education the new community had made no
              provision. He was the pioneer schoolmaster, and his home library became a veritable
              circulating library for the use of pupils and neighbors. Mr. Merrill's first school
              was held in his own house near the site of the Grand Hotel. Later he bought an
              eighty-acre farm, extending from what is now Tenth street, near the City Hospital, to
              North Indianapolis, along the Michigan road. Then the well-remembered Merrill home was
              built in Merrill street. In this home the family lived for perhaps forty years. Here
              were entertained many of the distinguished men who visited Indianapolis. Henry Ward
              Beecher made his home at the old place for several months until a permanent home could
              be found. Here, during antebellum days, Frederick Douglass was a guest. The site is
              now occupied by a public school known as the Catharine Merrill School.
            As the public duties of the father multiplied,  the
              daughter, who had been his favorite pupil and a comrade in his studies, began to take
              upon herself the training of the minds of the younger generation in the little town.
              Her pupils of those early days speak of that school as an ideal one. The children
              belonged to the friends of the teacher. The girls were put upon honor in everything.
              Nothing was so severely punished as an untruth. With the love in which her pupils held
              her went also respect that knew no fear. Confident of her sympathy, they took to her
              their little sorrows and their trials.
            A pupil of that earlier day, recalling the little school, has said:
            "I can never forget the prayer she lifted up every morning, nor her reverent reading
              of the Bible lesson. She impressed us as if she were speaking to some great and good
              friend to whom she could open her heart."
            Before the war this school was in the basement of the Fourth Presbyterian Church at
              the southwest corner of Market and Delaware streets. From here it was taken to a point
              near where the Commercial Club building stands. Close by the school was a hospital for
              confederate  prisoners. Here she used to go to nurse the
              sick and read to them. Later she followed her brother and others of the family to the
              South and entered into the hospital service as an army nurse. A later location for her
              school was at Alabama and Market streets. She noticed the women in the jail near by
              and visited them, giving them clothes and teaching them to sew. From the interest that
              was aroused in this way was started the Home for Friendless Women. For a time she
              taught at Cleveland, whither a number of her Indianapolis pupils followed her. Miss
              Guilford, who taught there with her, became her lifelong friend, and Coustance
              Fennimore Woolson was one of her pupils.
            In 1861 she returned from two years of study in Germany to lend what help she could
              to the cause of the Union and to take up again the school which her friend, Ellen
              Cathcart, had so well conducted in her absence. The Civil War with the sacrifices and
              the suffering it caused became so much a part of her life that she commenced to write
              a history of the share her own state had had in that struggle,  and in 1866 she published "The Soldier of Indiana in the War for the
              Union."
            In 1869 Ovid Butler, the chief benefactor of the college that now bears his name,
              endowed the Demia Butler chair of English Literature, and invited her to fill it. She
              accepted the call and continued in the faculty of the Northwestern Christian
              University and later of Butler College until 1885, when she yielded to the urgent
              demand of old and new pupils and resumed her private classes in the city. These
              classes she was enabled to teach until April, 1900. In her college work she was always
              helpful, giving herself to the culture of character as fully as to the training of the
              intellect, and allotting to honor and manliness as high a place in the curriculum as
              she gave to scholarship. She found time while she was not occupied with her classes to
              prepare the essays and addresses which she read to the literary clubs and popular
              audiences of her own and other cities, and a series of literary criticisms which were
              given to the press.
            After a brief illness she died at her home in Capitol Avenue on May 30, 1900.

          
          


          

            CATHARINE MERRILL: IMPRESSIONS AND REMINISCENCES

            Whatever may be the value of the pieces collected in the present volume, the reader
              should be assured that they yield no adequate conception of the noble personality
              behind them. It is true that all writing is in some sense a revelation of character;
              and in proportion as the writer's temperament goes into his work is that work
              autobiographical. But Catharine Merrill was not primarily a writer. Her favorite mode
              of self-expression was conversation, and her life is written large in the good works
              she prompted or performed, and in the characters of her pupils. Her letters must bear
              the stamp of her temperament much more distinctly than such occasional writings as
              these. There is, indeed, a printed book, now well-nigh forgotten, which is a precious
              memorial of this great, modest soul. It may surprise some who thought they knew her
              well to be informed that she was, more than a generation ago, the author of a book of
              fifteen hundred pages. It is entitled  "The Soldier of
              Indiana in the War for the Union." These two stout octavo volumes do not bear the
              author's name, and one might have known her a lifetime without hearing her mention
              them. Into this work she threw her heart. She was impelled to write it by the same
              motive that impelled her to visit the sick, to comfort the afflicted, to teach the
              poor. It is simply one of her many good works.
             "The Indiana Soldier" is largely a record of the sacrifices and sufferings of
              individuals. A thousand minute details, of a kind generally deemed beneath "the
              dignity of history," are here set down. The book is full of trustworthy anecdotes from
              the letters or the lips of eyewitnesses. The execution is unequal; there are marks of
              haste, yet there are unmistakable evidences of talent. Obviously, the modest author
              was not actuated by literary ambition. Her purpose was the humane and patriotic one of
              commemorating the sacrifices and heroism of common men in the service of a common
              idea. She is a humble Plutarch, or, better, a Plutarch of the humble. Much of the
              matter is still very stirring, and it will surely grow more fascinating  from the touch of the great romancer, Time.
            To those of us who saw her only in the latter Half of her life, Miss Merrill is known
              as the loving student and devoted teacher of English literature. The book I have been
              speaking of suggests, among other things, how broad was the basis of her love of
              literature. She would have shrunk from being called either a woman of letters or a
              philanthropist. The former word suggests professional accomplishments that were beside
              her aim, and the latter a certain strenuousness that would have shattered her. She was
              very far from being an organizer of "movements" or a trampler of platforms. She cared
              neither to agitate nor to fulminate. She was simply interested in folks, and that in a
              warm human fashion that was more convincing than a string of resolutions. Goethe's
              life maxim, "do the thing that lies nearest," was the guide of her conduct. Her way to
              and from school, in the earlier days, led her past the jail, where she saw the forlorn
              faces of women at the barred windows. She might have found in her full and laborious
              life an excuse for going by on the other side. It must have cost a struggle  to a woman of her refinement to go among those poor
              outcasts, but they lay beside her path. She did what she could for them. Her similar
              self-devotion during the Civil War is recorded. Indianapolis was then a great
              encampment, a hospital, and a prison. In her efficient unobtrusive way, Miss Merrill
              was a leader of the helpful women of the city; a leader rather by setting the rest the
              example of doing what was needful than by talk and exhortation. Thus, before becoming
              the historian of Indiana's share in the War for the Defense of the Union, she had
              taken her full part in the great struggle. One of the most valued friendships of her
              life grew out of her ,habit of visiting the sick and the unfortunate. When Mr. John
              Muir, then a poor and unknown wanderer, was confined for months to a dark room by a
              cruel accident and was threatened with total blindness, the visits of Miss Merrill and
              her little niece were his solace.
            Inasmuch as life was vastly more interesting to her than books, it is but natural
              that she should have valued literature primarily as a "criticism of life." To her mind
              the vital books  were not so much the most beautiful
              works of art as those which tell us most about man and are the most helpful in the art
              of right living. After the great dramatist and some of the great novelists, I think
              she liked best the memoirists and letter-writers. She once said, almost
              apologetically: "I am very fond of this gossiping sort of literature, Miss Edgeworth,
              Caroline Lamb, etc." In her conversation Miss Merrill was as charming a gossip as any
              of them, and she had all the natural gifts of an excellent letter-writer. It has not
              been my privilege to see any of the letters she must have written in that period of
              her life which fell before the Civil War; a collection of them might prove a
              revelation. After she accepted a professorship she must have been too busy for
              extended letter-writing, and, in her later years, which were her ripest and richest,
              her eyesight well-nigh failed her. The ideal letter is the product of a more leisurely
              age than ours. It must have the abandon of conversation, modulated by a certain
              selection of phrase wherein the pen has the advantage of the tongue. The modern toiler
              to whom the pen is an instrument of  livelihood is
              forced to have recourse to the conventional forms of epistolary short-hand.
            Of course one who gave herself, as she did, to every call of human need, must have
              had to write many letters, and more and more as the circle of her influence and of her
              friends widened. Her letters are of her very self, abounding in good sense, good
              humor, and kindly sympathy. Temperamentally discursive, she would run on a little
              while, and then, just as her soul was fairly kindling to the game, would be checked by
              "the bars of circumstance." To her friends at a distance her letters were always a
              little touch of her out of the night. What letters, one repeats, she must have written
              when Indianapolis was a village and the demands upon her nerves less exacting.
            Conversation was the solace of her life; indeed, it is not too much to say that her
              conversation was the solace of many lives. When not weighed down by the griefs and
              calamities of those about her (personal ills she always seemed to carry lightly), she
              was one of the most companionable of human beings. Her mind was full and retentive,
              her faculty of observation  quick, her sense of humor
              quietly alert, while her flow of thought and anecdote was never marred by inapt
              expression. By no means was she one of those tiresome women commonly described as
              "brilliant:" one who bestrides a hobby, who is nothing if not audacious, and whose
              epigrams grate like a file. She was not militant, she never posed, and had not the
              slightest ambition to shine. It is of course impossible to give any notion of her
              conversation to strangers. She impressed those with whom she talked as a large-souled
              woman, with sanity, sympathy, humor, the gift of speech, and the rarer gift of
              listening. She was an eloquent listener. She was most patient with her inferiors and
              was seldom visibly bored. She did not share that form of social cowardice which makes
              us shrink from the charge of the rider of a hobby; but she would not permit others to
              be overridden by such cavalry. She was a skilful moderator of conversation and knew
              how to give it a Democratic character. She seemed to learn from everyone, because she
              had the tact to draw from everyone the thing he knew. In conversation, as in life, she
              was apt to consider  the interest of others before her
              own; indeed, she made everyone feel that his interests were hers. She was as incapable
              of saying an unkind thing as of saying anything not in good taste. The ignorant and
              the timid never left her presence feeling cowed or crushed. Did some well-meaning
              person falter forth a commonplace, Miss Merrill would contrive to throw such a light
              upon it as to make it shine. This she would do with such courteous self-effacement
              that her obscure interlocutor might well feel somewhat exhilarated by the
              distinguished part he was playing. Thus she drew from everyone his best and gave a
              setting to many a rough diamond.
            If Miss Merrill was a charming gossip, no one drew more firmly the line between
              gossip and scandal. From scandal her pure soul turned with loathing; but the little
              humors that give a spice of comedy to human intercourse were her delight. There was,
              however, seldom a shade of satire--certainly never of sarcasm--in anything she
              uttered. She had a rare tact for giving a kind turn to her fun. She gave the
              impression that she considered  herself rather more open
              to ridicule than another. She had many a genial reminiscence of the class-room. In one
              of her letters I find the following, hastily scribbled in a cramped hand at the foot
              of a full page: "I had my freshmen read 'Lycidas.' After they had studied and studied
              it, one said: 'What does this mean--Warbling with eager thought his Doric
                lay'? I explained. He said: 'I thought lay was a verb--that
              his Doric lay on the ground beside him.' He smiled at his mistake; so did I."
            After that, one is not surprised when she remarks that this class preferred "The
              Vanity of Human Wishes" to "Lycidas." There was another good story, which I am unable
              to give in her own words, of a full-grown young man from the forests of the Wabash who
              stumbled over the word infant. He professed not to understand the
              word, and "allowed" that he had never seen the thing. "Surely, Mr. N.," urged the
              teacher reassuringly, "surely, you must have seen an infant?" "I may
              have saw one, ma'am," he conceded, "but," he added with solemn conviction, "I didn't
              know it!"

            

            Our kindly friend might have adopted the motto of the old Roman poet, "Nothing human
              is alien to me." Her mind had something of the alchemy attributed to the great poets,
              by virtue of which trifles become things of price. This was because her vision of
              human life was so large that she saw the filiation of things. What to the man of
              narrow view might seem nugatory was seen by her to be related to some phase of human
              experience.
            Miss Merrill's conversation bore the stamp of her simplicity and strong sincerity.
              She dealt in no tricks of phrase, nor did her speech especially abound in striking or
              quotable sayings. The original element in her conversation was herself rather than her
              phrase. She used to complain of a defective verbal memory and made, perhaps, fewer
              literary quotations than might have been expected. Any want of memory for words was,
              however, more than compensated by her remarkable memory for thoughts and things. Her
              speech had a certain elemental plainness, like water and air. She seemed to draw from
              copious wells of her own rather than from the fountain in the public  square. One felt that she spoke of what she had seen and
              known, rather than of what she had heard and read. Her reading was a fuel perfectly
              consumed; it did not go in as coal and come out as smoke. Books were not so much the
              tools with which she worked as the food wherewith she satisfied her hunger. The
              scholar requires eternal vigilance lest for him books take the place of thought--nay,
              of life itself. That vigilance relaxed, the scholar degenerates into the pedant. To
              our friend books were a daily necessity of the mind, but she had the wisdom and
              strength to make them tributary to clear thinking and right living.
            Catharine Merrill's fine, wide culture offers the most signal and cheering example of
              the educative power of English literature. No one could talk with her for half an hour
              without feeling that her culture was liberal; yet she was not widely read in the
              literature of any language except her own. She was habitually reticent concerning her
              accomplishments, and she doubtless owed something of her discipline of mind to her
              early linguistic training as well as to her considerable acquaintance with German.  I can, however, be doing her no great wrong in assuming
              that all that was most valuable in her literary equipment was derived from her reading
              of English authors. As all rivers flow into the sea, so all literatures contribute to
              enrich the English. One who knows it well must know something of all. Certainly her
              knowledge of English literature was accomplishment enough for one life, and for
              genuine culture worth more than all that colleges and universities can give. Of robust
              faculty and enquiring mind, she was early introduced to the best books by her
              cultivated father, and her reading was supplemented by fruitful and well-directed
              activity seldom so absorbing as to preclude leisure for study. She always felt her
              limitations more keenly than was need. Speaking of reading Dante, she writes:
            "I feel actually ashamed to end my life without it; but then I can't read Homer, nor
              trace the footsteps of the Creator in the rocks, neither could I talk with Solomon, if
              I should ever meet with him, of the flowers of the field and the hyssop on the
              wall!"
            



            If she be to-day with the spirits of Dante and Homer and Solomon, one may fancy her
              as having quite as much in common with each of them as they with one another; at all
              events, one cannot doubt that the creator of Portia and Imogen will find a charm in
              the society of Catharine Merrill. I like to think of her as bringing together in the
              gardens of Elysium such stranger spirits as those of Mme. de Sévigné and
              Wordsworth--herself the discoverer of a common bond.
            The literary preferences of a wise reader are always instructive. She once said to me
              that she had read the whole of Scott a great number of times, how many I dare not
              affirm. Had it been twice, the statement would have been impressive to one who had
              found life too short for a single reading of the complete works of that great but
              diffuse author. As her fondness for Scott implies, her interest in life and character
              predominated over her sense of art. This may account for her apparent lack of literary
              ambition. With the temperament of the artist she might have enriched our literature
              and so have exerted a wider influence; but could she 
              have been as balanced and sane as we knew her to be? However, we may answer that
              question, no one who knew her can for a moment regret that she was not a literary
              producer, or anything else than what she was.
            She loved the serene, humane, liberalizing writers; Shakespeare was naturally her
              prime favorite. Once she wrote: "I have re-read the whole of Shakespeare this summer
              for variety and novelty." Again: "I am studying Burke this summer, and love him. The
              largeness, the magnanimity of his nature makes one lift one's eyes and hopes. Real
              greatness is inexpressibly refreshing."
            Goethe, unfortunately, never took hold of her so vitally; probably she did not begin
              German early enough to be able to read him in her more plastic years. Of noteworthy
              American authors, Poe interested her least; nor was Emerson especially stimulating to
              her. Her preference for Wordsworth was marked; I think she would have been willing to
              sacrifice all that Keats ever wrote for the "Ode to Duty." To carry this subject
              further would be likely to lead to confusion, inasmuch as the  conversations with her in which these preferences were exhibited occurred
              many years before her death. Meeting her from time to time after the lapse of years, I
              noticed that she had entered upon new fields of reading, so that her literary
              interests were by no means stationary. Shortly before her last illness she had too
              tardily begun to set down her ripest judgments upon books in a series of articles for
              a newspaper. The chief fruit of this, her latest literary activity, was the paper upon
              "The Man Shakespeare."
            It was said of the late M. Edmond Scherer that he judged books with his character
              rather than with his intelligence. Perhaps the saying is quite as true of our modest
              friend as of the distinguished French critic. Her well-considered thoughts were put
              forward with a grave sincerity that carried conviction. The things she said might have
              sounded trite from another; but in her accent and bearing was that which assured us of
              being in the presence of reality. No thought fully realized can seem commonplace. It
              may be that to strangers some of the essays in the present volume will appear of  somewhat loose and uneven texture. Their value to us who
              knew her and loved her consists, not so much in their special message, as in their
              suggestiveness of her who wrought them "in a sad sincerity." What is it to us if the
              sentences are sometimes disconnected jottings? They are but posts bearing the
              invisible wires charged with thrilling and messageful currents. As we read she comes
              back to us, a beautiful presence, and we are penetrated by her grave, sweet tones. It
              is a very blessed thing that the noblest woman we have known should thus live for us
              in these pages, "to a life beyond life." In a very real sense she is here; her
              presence illuminates all; her character is gloss and comment.
            It is certainly to be regretted that she could not herself have prepared for the
              press a volume of her maturest essays. This book is primarily for those who loved her.
              Even the stranger, however, if not unsympathetic, may find his account in some of
              these unpretending essays and sketches. He will not forget that the author was first
              and last a teacher--her instrument the spoken word rather than the  pen--and will not look for the continuity and finish that
              stamp the work of the professional writer. The quality and value of her work might be
              very well illustrated by a contrast between the paper on "The Man Shakespeare" and
              Walter Bagehot's essay on the same subject. The latter is obviously the work of a
              master of the profession of letters: the ripe fruit of a full, vigorous, genial
              intelligence. In the wide circle of his musings, Bagehot encounters the shadowy figure
              that we call Shakespeare and undertakes to endow it with human traits. The sketch is
              soon made, and the prolific artist proceeds to employ his affluent brush upon another
              canvas. Miss Merrill's essay, on the other hand, if also in one sense an occasional
              product, is really a collection of choses vues, things seen
              throughout a life of loving intercourse with Shakespeare. A few weeks before her death
              she recalls some of these impressions, and notes them down with a trembling hand. The
              thoughts derive peculiar interest from being those of a sagacious woman. Shakespeare
              owes much of his greatness to the circumstance that he had so much of the woman in
              him, whereby he was all the  greater as a man. This
              gives peculiar interest to the interpretations of Shakespeare by noble women. No man
              has spoken of him with more insight than has been shown by women: Lady Montague, Mrs.
              Jameson, Fanny Kemble, Lady Martin.
            Catharine Merrill lacked many of the advantages enjoyed by such women. Not that her
              circle was undistinguished, for, in the course of her long life, she enjoyed the
              intimacy of many persons of eminent character and attainments. Nevertheless it cannot
              be denied that she missed, for the most part, the stimulating encounters afforded by
              intercourse with leading spirits at a great center of culture. Living at a great
              capital, Miss Merrill might well have been more productive in a literary way; she
              would not necessarily have been wiser, nor is it likely that she would have known her
              Shakespeare any better. What she has to say of him is marked by her own sagacity,
              sincerity, and sympathy, and forms an instructive addition to the gallery of portraits
              of him drawn by women who knew and understood him.
            I have never known another woman who,  upon intimate
              acquaintance, made an impression of such pure spirituality. It is rather difficult to
              imagine how her nature would have been modified by different outward relations. In her
              teaching she emphasized the truth that wifehood and motherhood are the normal
              conditions of a woman's life; and one feels that she would have been as exemplary in
              that sphere as in the one she chose. Possibly such a life might have narrowed her
              influence. It was marvelous how entirely she transcended the limitations that commonly
              hedge about unmarried women (and men too) as they advance in years. So far from
              involving impairment of sympathy, the life she led made her sympathies wider, if not
              deeper, than they could otherwise well have been. With a greater endowment of sympathy
              she could scarcely have held her own in the world. Looking backward and upward upon
              her entire life, as we can now, we feel it to be one beautiful harmony, unthinkable
              otherwise. In one of her letters she quotes Mrs. Jameson's fine saying: "Mary stood by
              the cross, saw her son die, and went with John and lived." It is well that Catharine
              Merrill's  fortitude should have been spared such a
              test. As it was, she suffered far too much. What personal griefs were to others, such
              vicarious griefs were to her. Wherever sorrow came to her notice, she needed no
              command to impel her to "weep with them that weep." In her sympathy there was no alloy
              of wordy exhortation; it was the throbbing of a bruised and bleeding heart. The
              following extracts from her letters need no comment:
            "That lacerating pity we have for others is the most grievous thing in life--
            
              
                "'All for pity I could die.'
              
            
            "How many times I have said that little line of Spenser's to myself, because it
              seemed to express the last anguish of pity. One comes out of sorrow a changed being,
              with fewer small interests, and wider, deeper sympathies. So it elevates and enriches,
              or so it should. We are certainly the better for disappointment and trouble, unless we
              are wilful and rebellious."
            Again: "I love you and mourn with you; this is all. Every day I think of you,
              sometimes  all day long. I know well what it is to carry
              a grave in one's very heart. It is a sore burden, a heavy weight, and so cold."
            To a father whose only daughter had died at the age of ten years:
            "All day long and all night, too, since I heard of your sore bereavement, I have
              borne your sorrow in an already heavy heart. * * * The friendship of father and
              daughter has always been a favorite topic with me; there have been such notable
              instances, and there are such peculiar grounds of love. There are hours when I cannot
              use my eyes in reading; consequently my mind wanders off in fancies; and I had many a
              pretty thought [of the companionship of father and daughter]. Now she would be a
              gently wild creature of twelve years,
            

              
                "'The sweetest thing that ever grew
                Beside a human door';
              
            

            "Now blooming and fair and responsive at sixteen and eighteen; and far on in life the
              bright, soft star of declining years."
            Charitable and indulgent to others as she was, Miss Merrill's self-discipline, both
              moral and intellectual, was severe. "She was rigid  with
              herself," are the simple words of one who knew; how rigid few of us can do more than
              guess. In no wise an ascetic, she spared herself almost as little as did her
              name-saint of Siena. Her self-discipline was enlightened and purposeful. She would not
              permit her duties to conflict and was capable of dropping upon the ready shoulders of
              others a burden that overtaxed her; but only that she might devote herself with
              single-minded consecration to her peculiar tasks. She was distinguished for unwearying
              attention to details: a mark, not indeed of genius, as has been asserted, but of
              greatness. Moments were golden to her, yet she gave her moments and her hours without
              stint and without complaint, to little things and to little people. She liked to be
              able to meet people on their own ground. "Miss Merrill had a great respect for
              sewing," is the eulogy pronounced upon her by a seamstress. She once wrote me about a
              detailed course of study for young girls, which she thought of publishing. She had
              copied the considerable mass of material many times with her own hand for the benefit
              of individuals; and she was much  surprised when once "a
              generous lady" insisted on paying her for her trouble. "I used the seven dollars for
              the benefit of poor students, and was grateful for it."
            The simple words are full of pathos to one who thinks of her limited strength and
              failing eyesight.
            Perhaps there is not one of her wide circle of friends and pupils but could recall
              some individual instance of this kind. If she was taxed and drained by her devoted
              helpfulness, one never heard of it from her. There was doubtless an inner reward. She
              was very happy in her work and often said: "I feel that I receive more than I give."
              She enjoyed watching the unfolding of the minds of her pupils, as she enjoyed the
              growth of her flowers; nor did she seem to take more credit to herself for the one
              than the other. Notwithstanding the heavy burdens she bore, her life was on the whole
              a happy one, and she clung to it. She always referred to death with shrinking; I think
              she fully felt its horror. Yet she looked forward with serenity to an eternal reunion
              with all she loved. The following words from  an old
              letter seem to indicate that her religion was substantially identical with what Lord
              Shaftesbury called the religion of all sensible men:
            "One would be a fool not to grow more thoughtful with experience and observation in
              this involved, perplexing and perplexed, distressful, and yet--if you get up high
              enough--happy and beautiful world. 'It is hard to believe,' says Tennyson, 'but harder
              not to believe.' It is a mystery, but all we have to do is to behave ourselves. That
              is hard enough."
            Of course the impressions that I have here set down touching this large and admirable
              character make no pretense to completeness or finality. During the last twenty years
              of Miss Merrill's life I saw her but at long intervals. Time which has deepened my
              veneration for her has washed out of my memory many of those little details of act and
              word that give reality to a portrait. Her personality lies in my memory in large,
              simple outlines, like a landscape at twilight. I know that she never ceased to grow,
              and that she had the art of making new friends in old age. Some one of those whose  privilege it was to live near her to the last and who has
              the requisite material at command, should write in detail the story of her life. "The
              Catharine Merrill biographical material, so rich in scenery, history, art, literature,
              and big, warm, all-embracing sympathy, written as it should be written, would be
              literature, a cheering, charming, helpful book for everybody." These words, which I
              take the liberty to quote from a private letter from Mr. John Muir, may stimulate some
              one to undertake a task so useful and delightful.
            Acquaintance with such a character tends to build up the most helpful kind of faith.
              Nothing can be more reassuring. Those who had the good fortune to know a human being
              so large and excellent should take pious care that her memory does not fade with the
              passing of the lives of those she immediately touched. Certainly none who knew her can
              ever forget her; but, as she chose to be a teacher rather than a writer, her
              influence, though intense, was comparatively restricted. Shall there not be an
              authentic record that such a beautiful life was actually lived?

            

            In particular, we should like to know more of the first half of her life. Unsupported
              by the evidence such a book should contain, it is very difficult to speak adequately
              of her without incurring the suspicion of extravagant laudation. So, instead of
              tinkling the cymbals of eulogy, let me quote in conclusion the simple words of one of
              her pupils, words to which all who knew her will warmly assent: "There is nobody like
              her--no one else so serene and fine, so calm and so full of feeling."
            MELVILLE B. ANDERSON.
          

          

          


            WORDS FROM AN OLD FRIEND


            Miss Merrill was the first friend I found in Indiana, and one of the kindest, wisest,
              and most helpful of my life. I first met her about thirty-five years ago through a
              letter of introduction from Professor J. D. Butler, when I was studying plants and
              rocks around Indianapolis. Knowing how shy I was, and fearing I might not deliver his
              letter he took pains to tell how rare and good she was in heart and mind, and to
              assure me that at first sight all bashful misery would vanish, for none better than
              she knew that "a man's a man for a' that." And so it proved. She became interested in
              my studies, loaned me books, and I soon learned to admire her scholarship, keen, sane,
              kindly criticism, the wonderful range of her sympathies, her kindness in always
              calling attention to the best in the character of any one under discussion living or
              dead, and her weariless, unostentatious, practical benevolence  in smoothing as she was able the pathways of others and helping them up
              into wider, brighter, purer living. But it was in a time of trouble, then drawing
              nigh, that I learned to know her well. While at work in a mill my right eye was
              pierced by a file, and then came the darkest time of my life. I was blind for months
              and the blindness threatened to be lasting and complete. She came to my darkened room
              an angel of light, with hope and cheer and sympathy purely divine, procured the
              services of the best oculist and the children she knew I loved. And when at last after
              long months of kindness and skill she saw me out in Heaven's sunshine again, fairly
              adrift in the glorious bloom of the spring, her joy was as great as my own.
            And in her beautiful life how many others has she lifted up,--cheered and charmed out
              of darkness into light! Few have left the world so widely beloved, and it is not easy
              for those who knew her to speak of her without apparent excess.
            She was tall, rather frail looking, with broad brow and wonderful eyes, a countenance
              glowing  with kindness and as free from guile as a
              child's. She was an admirable scholar, with perfect mental independence, and her heart
              was one of the kindest and least selfish I ever found. Those who knew her best loved
              her best, and almost worshiped her. Everywhere she was welcomed like light--in social
              gatherings, clubs and camps, homes and schools, asylums, hospitals, churches and
              jails; for she was a natural teacher and helper, a bearer of others' burdens,
              brightener of others' joys. None could be near her without being made better. One was
              lifted and strengthened simply by seeing her. The weary and troubled went to her as
              the thirsty to a well. Her home was a center of heart sunshine. Like a stream with
              deep fountains she was a friend on whom we could depend, always the same, steady as a
              star. And like streams and stars in their flowing and shining she seemed wholly
              unconscious of the good she was doing. However important the work in hand she never
              appeared to be in a hurry or laboring beyond her strength. In the midst of striving
              crowds she seemed calm, gaining her ends with apparent ease. She followed the  well-beaten roads of humanity with the enthusiasm and
              freshness of perception of the explorer in new fields. Before her all embracing
              sympathy obstacles melted. Humble, devout, reverent in presence of life's mysteries,
              her faith in the final outcome of good never varied, while humor and common sense
              preserved her from extravagance of opinion and language.
            She had a profound knowledge of human nature, and her judgment and sagacity in
              practical affairs enabled her not only to give good advice, but to get things done;
              love and sympathy giving wonderful insight. Her eye took in all humanity, studying
              characteristics of states and nations as well as individuals in every walk of life,
              tracing springs of action through all concealments as an explorer traces the fountain
              heads of rivers, searching out ways of being good and doing good, never discouraged,
              leaving results to be as God pleased; bowing in storms like a slender plant and
              springing up again; rejoicing in all truth, especially happy when she discovered
              something to praise in what seemed only evil, some good motive where only bad ones had
              been known.


            

            Though always busy, valuing each day as it came out of eternity, she always had time
              for others, as if she had no pleasures or pains of her own, no temptations to fight
              against, no perturbing passions. She made her way through the scrambling, fighting,
              loving, hating, suffering, rejoicing world with no more apparent perplexity or effort
              than the world itself displays in making its way through the heavens.
            She had a rare gift of teaching, and most of her life was devoted to it. An
              enthusiastic student and lover of literature, she kept inspiringly close to the minds
              of her scholars and easily led them to do their best, while her downright, steadfast,
              glowing goodness gained their hearts. Above all she was a builder of character,
              teaching the great art of right-living, holding up by word and example the loftiest
              ideals of conduct, fidelity to conscience and duty, and plain unchanging foundational
              righteousness as the law of life under whatever circumstances. And these noble lessons
              went home to the hearts of her pupils.
            Conservative, believing in hard work, following 
              Heaven's ever old, ever new, love-lighted ways, placing no dependence on plans for
              getting something for nothing--comfortable inventions for abolishing ignorance and
              sin--machinery for hoisting humanity to spiritual heights, salvation by ballots, etc.,
              she nevertheless welcomed new ideas with hospitality, eager to discover something
              useful in new plans however little they promised, humbly hoping and groping through
              life's sad cloudy places as best she could, holding fast the good as she was able to
              see it, under whatever garb, steadied by a rare sanity and robust commonsense
              applicable to every situation. And this breadth and steadiness of mind, combined with
              immeasurable sympathy, bound her scholars to her through life. No wonder they never
              forgot her. "To know her was a liberal education."
            Nothing in all her noble love-laden life was, more characteristic than its serenity.
              Of the showy reformer crying aloud in the confidence of comfortable ignorance there
              was never a trace. Going about humbly among all sorts of people she did what she could
              of the good that was nearest, preaching without sermons,  informal as sunshine, her whole life a lesson of faith, hope and charity.
            Though I saw but little of her after the first year or two in Indiana, her gracious
              influence, not easily put into words, never lost its charm. Go where I would in my
              long, lonely wanderings "the idea of her life would sweetly glide into my study of
              imagination," and so, I doubt not, it was with her friends near and far.
            She never grew old. To her last day her mind was clear, and her warm heart glowed
              with the beauty and enthusiasm of youth. In loving hearts she still lives, and loving
              hearts are her monument.
            JOHN MUIR.

          
        
        

        


          THE MAN SHAKESPEARE
            AND OTHER ESSAYS


          
          

          
            THE MAN SHAKESPEARE AS REVEALED IN HIS WORKS

            Three hundred years ago the man who was destined to shed a new and abiding glory over
              literature and over life walked the streets of London unrecognized, unknown and
              unconscious. No prophet and no sage had stood by his cradle and no record had been
              made of the unfolding of the young existence; ,no scholar had directed his education,
              nor was there ever a Boswell, or a Trevelyan, or a Froude, or a revering son to
              cherish his words and to pry into his letters. His was the common lot--to pass away
              like a tale that is told. The very agony of curiosity discovers scarce a fact besides
              dates of christening, marriage and death, with deeds of purchase and sale.
            Can we not, then, find out by his works what manner of man this was? It is both
              common sense and Holy Scripture thus to do. But we are told it is useless to try; that
              Shakespeare is so entirely the artist, he must, as man, forever  elude our touch and our sight. Milton's soul betrays itself even in the
              choice of a subject The honest, happy heart of Walter Scott appears in every canto of
              his poems, and in every chapter of his novels. All down the list of English authors,
              from Chaucer to Lowell and Howells, we see the man in the book--his aims and purposes,
              hopes and fears, loves and hates, his habits and manners, his politics and his
              religion, his friends and his foes; but so obscure is Shakespeare's cipher that the
              interpreter sees in it what he will, and claims the man for whatever he himself
              is--Papist or Protestant, atheist or fatalist, rioter or solid citizen, royalist and
              aristocrat, or republican or democrat.
            Even in trifles Shakespeare seems noncommittal. Smoking was the fashion, and the new
              fashion set by the admired Raleigh; scores of London shops sold tobacco; all the
              writers of the day, from serious Spenser to jovial Ben Jonson, from the king to the
              water poet, censure or commend the American weed--all but one; Shakespeare never
              mentions it. Did he smoke in those wit combats in the Mermaid, or  did he not? When he returned to his home in Stratford, did he find in his
              pipe consolation for gay society, or was he denied the soothing influence? Here, as in
              questions of greater import, the answer is according to the inclination of the
              respondent. Nobody knows. Nobody can make any positive affirmation in regard to the
              habits of Shakespeare. Behind the mask of tragedy or of comedy the man seems to baffle
              the shrewd and to laugh at the wise. To try to snatch away the mask, or even to peep
              under it, smacks of audacity. Yet perhaps this is all a superstition, and though not
              so easily or so thoroughly read as others, still the man in his larger features may be
              recognized in what he did. At all events, one may make the attempt.
            That conclusions from the same premises should be different and even opposite is due
              to the character of the time, and to the comprehensive, impartial mind of the poet, as
              well as to the idiosyncrasies and limitations of the investigator. The current of
              public interest was nearing a tremendous crisis; questions were rising of wider and
              higher importance than any that had ever yet disturbed the English mind.  In the political and spiritual change involved in church
              affairs there was a moral interregnum. Men were fiercely taking sides. Dissension and
              severance threatened national, religious, social, and even domestic life. One man, and
              perhaps only one, found the broad bottom on which stood together Puritan and Anglican,
              Presbyterian and Roman Catholic, the nascent republican and the full-grown believer in
              the divine right of kings, the scholar, the sage, the child and the fool--the basis
              where are all the elements that in various combinations form individual life,
              character, and action. A nature so broad that it embraced all in knowledge was so deep
              that it included all in love. The head and the heart are really the same--one living
              thing, and not two. Shakespeare, the myriad-minded, was necessarily the large-hearted,
              the myriad-hearted, so thoroughly comprehensive of all, that each partisan finds
              himself included, and is able to cut out his own field of belief. But in spite of this
              comprehensiveness, this many-sidedness, Shakespeare had his own character and his own
              opinions. And he had not only the genius to understand and to  love, but the courage of the day, shown by other men on the high seas and
              in the desperate battles of France, and Spain, and Holland, and in the no less
              desperate council chamber of Elizabeth. He exerted it in his own sphere, in opposition
              to rules of the classics, creating an imaginary world according to the laws of the
              real world, holding the mirror bravely up to nature.
            He was not rapid and brilliant; he felt his way at first, handling his tools
              cautiously, and coming slowly to their full and free use. This slowness of development
              was in contrast with the rush and spring of the impetuous Marlowe. Though in "Love's
              Labor Lost," probably Shakespeare's first play, and "Hamlet," written in the maturity
              of his powers, there is a mighty difference, careful examination of the work between
              shows that for years the progress of the poet was slow and steady. What Cecil said of
              Raleigh might, I am sure, have been said of Shakespeare--"He can toil terribly."
            Next to actual experience and observation, Shakespeare probably found in history,
              judging by the direction his early labors took, the 
              most strengthening and inspiring intellectual food. Perhaps history is generally the
              most improving of all studies. Its humanity relieves it from the dryness, the hard
              exactness and the tendency to technicalities belonging to the pure sciences. Even the
              study of law is narrowing. Even the study of theology, strange as this may seem, is
              hardening. "The proper study of mankind is man." It was man that Shakespeare studied,
              finding history, after real life, of most absorbing interest. The dead pages of dry
              chronicles were alive to him. He read there the thing, not mere names and dates; he
              read causes, results, meanings, characters, in all their involutions, evolutions,
              revolutions, complexities and mysteries. He took insight, imagination, sympathy, to
              the pages of history, and gathered there food for his genius. He thought profoundly,
              reflecting on the relation of one to the whole, of the whole to one, of all to God,
              and of God to all. He saw that beauty, and royalty, and riches, and genius, and glory,
              and life itself, are lighter than feathers in the scales of justice; that as surely as
              there is sin there is retribution; that the innocent are often  swallowed up with the guilty; that, though the greatest effects may follow
              the slightest causes, there remains an indestructible moral order; that goodness can
              not fail; that truth, though it speak with the voice of Cassandra, and no man may
              believe it, will forever stand.
            In the living tide of which he formed a part he saw the same growth, the same action
              and interaction of character, the same appalling vicissitudes of fortune that made the
              attraction of history. "Not of an age, but for all time," he still reflected current
              thought and feeling; he sympathized with contemporary actors, with the explorers of
              the high seas, the colonizers of new worlds, with English soldiers in foreign lands,
              with patriot statesmen at home. He understood the bright, brave, hard queen on the
              throne, the bright, brave, bad queen in the prison and on the scaffold. Sometimes an
              extraordinary burst of sunlight or a fierce gleam of lightning for a moment opens to
              common eyes the secret chambers of another's life--such moments Shakespeare held,
              making the transient flash a lasting day.
            In all Shakespeare's works are proofs of a  lively,
              country boyhood. Twenty laborious years in London did not efface the remembrance of
              the beautiful and bountiful landscape of central England, the soft flowing and silvery
              river, the wide grain fields, the grassy meadows, the noble woods and the low line of
              undulating hills. Montaigne's father had his infant son woke on each new day, not to
              the rude sounds of bustling business, but to strains of softest music, in order that
              peace and joy and harmony might be infused into the very stuff of the soul. Happy the
              child that in his first breathings, his fancies and dreams and plays, in his first,
              wondering acquaintance with this marvelous world, hears nature's music--the murmur of
              waters, the rustle of leaves, the whisper of breezes, the singing of birds. Only one
              who in childhood had learned the wild flowers, wild birds and forest trees, and who
              retained the keen edge of childish impressions, could speak of them and their kindred
              with Shakespeare's knowledge and affection. His touch is like a caress; he names the
              pretty creatures of the wood as if he kissed them. Only one who had felt a child's
              rapture in the sights and sounds  of spring could give
              the delicate strokes that mark his allusions to the season: 
                
                  "When daisies pied, and violets blue,
                  And lady-smocks all silver white,
                  And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
                  Do paint the meadows with delight:--"
                
               when the "daffodils come before the swallow dares, and take the winds of March
              with beauty." He well knows the willow, "that shows his hoar leaves in the glassy
              stream." The Avon is fringed in many places with willows, and the man remembered what
              the boy had noted, that the hoary underside of the leaf was reflected in the
              water.


            Nobody felt with more devotion of spirit the general aspect of the world of nature
              than did Milton--"The nodding horror of the shady wood," the solemnity of "the
              gray-hooded even, like a sad votarist in palmer's weed," "the dingle," "the bushy
              dell," "the bosky bourn," and "every flower that sad embroidery wears;" but the city
              poet's allusions and descriptions have not the sharp shining edge that marks the
              effusions of the poet who was born in the little country town of Stratford and
              wandered  as a boy through the meadows, fields and
              villages roundabout. 
                
                  "I know a bank whereon the wild thyme blows,
                  Where oxslips and the nodding violet grows."
                
               sang Shakespeare; sang, too, of "violets dim, but sweeter than the lids of Juno's
              eyes or Cytherea's breath." Chaucer knelt "Upon the smale, softe, sweete gras" to see
              the unclosing of the daisy, which "blissful sight softened all his sorrow." His note
              is like that of the greater and later poet, Shakespeare. 
                
                  "If music be the food of love,
                  * * * That strain again * * *
                  Oh, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound
                  That breathes upon a bank of violets,
                  Stealing and giving odour!"
                
              
            
            The healthiest and happiest hearts are grounded in this sympathy with the natural
              world. Without it, Shakespeare would still be a great poet, but he would not be
              "Sweetest Shakespeare, Fancy's child, warbling his native wood notes wild."
            The wits and poets of the century after Shakespeare wondered at the simplicity and
              dulness of his women. He had, indeed, no place for the brilliant society woman; but he
              had  evidently, early in his life, somewhere seen, known
              and loved the truest and highest type of womanhood. Mary Arden, the youngest but one
              of nine or ten sisters, by her father's will made executrix of his considerable
              estate, may have possessed strength of character, as well as gentle blood. Anne
              Hathaway may have been a woman to fascinate for life. Johnson, D'Israeli, Lord Russell
              and many others loved devotedly women with whom there was even greater disparity of
              age than existed between Shakespeare and Anne. However the poet gained the knowledge,
              he knew the nature of women.
            He also knew children and was the first to introduce them into literature. Before him
              the little martyr whose fame Chaucer sings, and a boy with a magic mouth, are the only
              children in English story. With Shakespeare, they come trooping to the stage of life.
              Noble little tragic beings they are, mostly, but we have also the child who is full of
              frolic and fun. The great poet honored women and loved children.
            Mark Twain says that when he thinks out a good thing in his study it is so real to
              him that  then and there he has his laugh. Dickens
              declared that he so agonized over his works that he could not rid himself of the
              personages his teeming brain created. All through the months of labor on "The Old
              Curiosity Shop," Little Nell haunted him. If he walked along a country road he saw her
              gathering flowers in a meadow; if he sat on a bench to rest he saw her there,
              comforting the old man; when he threaded his way through the crowded street she
              slipped her little hand into his hand and lifted her confiding eyes to his face; when
              he turned into an alley she met him at the corner or looked over his shoulder.
              Everywhere and always he saw the dear face that his own fancy had made a real thing.
              So, and doubly so, Shakespeare must have been attended. Imagine him at his desk
              setting Glendower and Hotspur going, making Falstaff not only witty himself, but the
              cause of wit in others; hearing Dogberry urge: "Oh, that I had been writ down an ass!"
              If Mark Twain can laugh at Huckleberry Finn, fancy the merriment of the creator of
              Holofernes, and Dull, and Moth, and Sir Toby, and Malvolio, and Maria, and Verges,  and Dogberry, and Prince Hal, and Falstaff, as they
              disputed and bragged and capered about him at his desk, or strutted and staggered and
              larded the lean earth, as he walked the streets! Perhaps it was in the parks about
              Stratford, or in the hunting grounds near London, as he rested beside the "brawling
              brook" where "The green leaves quiver in the cooling wind, and make chequered shadows
              on the ground," that these creations of his brain thronged about him in the greatest
              number. There he held the lists and saw fell Mowbray and haughty Bolingbroke checked
              by the cry: "The King hath thrown his warder down." There King Harry, in his young
              wisdom, held council of state. But thicker than warriors or statesmen would come in
              his happy moods the gay figures of fantastic comedy. The bright and airy Rosalind
              would comfort the weaker vessel and allow the fool to comfort her. The gay Beatrice
              and the merry Benedick would sharpen their wits upon each other and be caught in their
              own toils. The woods would be full of the playful and the beautiful. Shakespeare's
              mirthfulness embraces everything of the laughter-loving and  laughter-producing-sting, satire, philosophic irony, flashing wit, playful
              jest, gentle humor and also coarse, indecent fun.

            Custom then permitted a freedom of language and allusion that would now be
              intolerable. Words in some instances have changed their meaning, and are more gross
              now. Other playwrights were worse than he. But even after these allowances, it must be
              admitted that the master spirit of the time, the greatest genius of our English race,
              was sometimes guilty of pandering to the coarse demands of the pit, or to the vile
              taste of the court, or possibly of grossly indulging his own sense of the
              ludicrous.
            Yet, though stooping to indecency, Shakespeare never excused frivolity. He represents
              the flippant soul as capable of treachery and murder. His exuberant, abounding
              mirthfulness is seldom unmixed mirthfulness. There is nearly always a shadow in the
              background. The fun may grow fast and furious, but through it all, or after it all,
              comes an awful sense of responsibility, or a fearful moment of retribution. The
              seriousness of life is never long absent from Shakespeare's thoughts. In the  midst of scenes of mirth he is aware of the shadow of
              death, or mistake or shame. And there came a time, apparently, when he was not a mere
              looker on and sympathizer, when his own sunny soul was clouded over and tempest-
              tossed. Whether he suffered disappointment in the character of one he loved or
              ingratitude's thankless tooth, or slander's venomed spear, or the heavy burden of
              others' woes, we can not know. We know only that for some reason his soul went down
              into the grave, yet not to death, for he now struggled to solve urgent but insolvable
              questions. The dark time passed, leaving the terrible yet magnificent creations with
              which he thronged "Hamlet," "King Lear," "Macbeth," "Othello," "Timon," and though he
              never more flashed out in wild wit and mirth, he was again happy and playful.
            We can trace in Shakespeare's work his estimation of the bonds of kinship,
              friendship, society and religion; of all, indeed, of the ties that bind man to his
              fellows and to his God. Kindred are bound by "holy cords which are too intrinse to
              unloose." A child's duty to her father is a "holy duty." A spasm of filial love  holds back the hand of a murderer. The daughter's heart
              breaks with tenderness as she bends over the father's unconscious form. Marriage is "a
              contract of eternal bond of love, confirmed by mutual joinder of the hands, attested
              by the holy close of lips." Never does Shakespeare find carelessness in regard to
              domestic bonds attractive. The last ties to be severed by wickedness are the ties
              between husband and wife. Until they are maddened by crime, Macbeth and his wife
              retain their affection; then she, consumed by one thought, dies alone, and he gives
              her but a passing word: "She should have died hereafter."
            Fidelity of any kind the dramatist loves to honor. The mere mention of their names
              brings to mind the friendship of Antonio and Bassanio, Valentine and Proteus, Celia
              and Rosalind, Beatrice and Hero, Horatio and Hamlet, the devotion of old Adam to young
              Orlando, of Pauline to Hermione, Emilie to Desdemona, of the fool to Lear, and of Kent
              to Cordelia. Only one in whose own royalty of nature friendship and faith were planted
              deep could have so nobly told the noble story of their loves. In  his thirtieth sonnet we have Shakespeare in his own person bemoaning the
              loss of friends and turning with sure faith and with love that wants consolation to
              the friend who remains. He had great capacity for trust, utter freedom from low-born
              and low-bred suspicion, and yet was so wise! He might have been mistaken sometimes; he
              never could be unappreciative or unforgiving. And how compassionately would his large
              heart perceive mistake or error ! How generously his hand would snatch the humbled
              spirit from a cruel world or from its own cruel despair! How he would believe in the
              sorely wounded soul, and with what refinement of love he would infuse consolation,
              hope and courage! Peradventure for a friend some would even dare to die. Such a friend
              Shakespeare must have been.
            He hated "ingratitude more in man than any taint whose strong corruption inhabits our
              frail blood."
            With scorn of scorn he rebuked back-wounding calumny.

            
              
                "'Tis slander,
                Whose edge is sharper than the sword; whose tongue
                Outvenoms all the worms of Nile; whose breath


                

                Rides on the posting winds, and doth belie
                All corners of the world: kings, queens, and states,
                Maids, matrons--nay, the secrets of the grave
                This viperous slander enters."
              
            
            The burial song of the two royal boys in the mountains--
                
                  "Fear no more the lightning flash,
                  Nor the all-dreaded thunder-stone;
                  Fear not slander, censure rash,
                  Thou hast finished joy and moan"--
                
               is only less sad than the saddest lines: "Done to death by slanderous tongues;"
              "Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny."
              Shakespeare's vilest character is not Claudius, who murders his brother, marries his
              brother's wife, and cheats his brother's son; nor Macbeth, whose cruel heart condemns
              to death king and kinsmen, friend and fellow soldier, woman and child. His vilest
              character is not the murderer, it is the slanderer, "whose tongue is set on fire of
              hell." Iago is "slanderous as Satan."
            Shakespeare, with his keen enjoyment of the placid country, of the stirring city, of
              friendship and society, and wit and wine, and the pomp of circumstance, probably
              dreaded the thought of dying, and it may have been that 
              he spoke from his own quivering heart when he represented a reckless youth, arrested
              in the midst of revelry by sentence of death, as crying out: Death is a fearful
              thing!
            
              
                "To die and go we know not where;
                To lie in cold obstruction and to rot;
                This sensible warm motion to become
                A kneaded clod. * * *
                Or to be worse than worst
                Of those that lawless and uncertain thoughts
                Imagine howling! 'Tis too horrible!
                The weariest and most loathed worldly life,
                That age, ache, penury and imprisonment
                Can lay on nature, is a paradise
                To what we fear of death."
              
            
            Who that knows vigorous, powerful, intense life, does not shrink from the thought of
              the glazed eye, the dull, cold ear, the narrow bed heaped with heavy earth.? As the
              touch of a corpse was a horror to the ancient Israelite and unfitted him for the holy
              service of the temple, so to intense vitality is the suggestion of death. There is
              such a vast and awful gulf between life and death.
            Hamlet's soliloquies are Hamlet's. Yet they may represent a doubting state of the
              author's mind. "Lord, I believe; help Thou mine unbelief," was the prayer of one who
              knew his  soul to be the battlefield of opposing
              powers--of faith and of fear, of hope and of despair, of doubt and of assurance. There
              were, "obstinate questionings" in the poet's mind, and he was shaken "with thoughts
              beyond the reaches of our souls"; but he worked unswervingly according to the great
              principles of the moral world. No other uninspired writer has shown with such power
              the writhings of a wounded conscience. No other has shown so plainly, to use the words
              of Lowell that "One sin forever involves another, and that the key that unlocks
              forbidden doors to our will or passion, leaves a stain on the hand that may not be so
              dark as blood, but that will not out." No other has more forcibly held up to our view
              a merciful Redeemer.
            
              
                "Why, all the souls that are, were forfeit once;
                And he that might the vantage best have took
                Found out the remedy."
              
            
            No other has shown so well that, though innocence and virtue may be cast down, they
              can not fail; that the memory of the just is blessed; that the name of the wicked
              shall not live; that  there are times when the kingdom
              of heaven can be taken only by violence.
            When we see a princess, delicate and tender as the blossoms of early spring, bearing
              herself in deep and terrible abandonment with patience, with common sense, with
              resolute courage; when we see a determined girl play the part of a learned physician
              and of a lonely pilgrim to save the man she loves from a dissolute life; when we see
              divorced wives and disgraced queens and dishonored lords deport themselves with
              queenly or with lordly dignity, we receive a just and generous inspiration. When we
              see that, relentless as fate, the poet brings swift and dire retribution on those who
              fail to meet the demands of their situation, we recognize justice in its power and its
              terror.
            Prospero, tempted from affairs and the duties of state by his love of books, loses
              his dukedom. Hamlet, perplexed among conflicting claims, dies a failure. Othello, who,
              spite of the most damning evidence, ought to have believed in the fair Desdemona,
              doubts and is lost. Claudio fails in the hour of trial, 
              Leonatus fails, Macbeth fails. Angelo shamefully fails. Thus Shakespeare weighs his
              characters, while he seems only to be allowing them to live according to the
              inventions of their own hearts. On our first reading we scarcely know, more than they,
              that they are in a state of trial. It is only when we pause and reflect, that the
              profound gravity of situation and circumstance presses upon us. Then, as the seemingly
              strong and noble yield to the tempter and go down to ruin, we almost feel the throb of
              the great heart of their creator.
            The same powerful subject is dramatically treated by both Shakespeare and Milton in
              "Antony and Cleopatra" and in "Samson Agonistes." Before the opening of his drama
              Milton's hero has been brought to shame, captivity and blindness, and has revolted
              against the blandishments of the siren. In prison, and in chains, his soul rises to
              its native height, and though he falls the victim of Delilah's wiles, he snatches
              triumph from the jaws of defeat. The tenderness, sympathy, scorn, relentless justice,
              with which Shakespeare treats that mighty ruin, Mark Antony, who before our  eyes, swiftly slides down the slope of self-indulgence to
              the pit of perdition, make a picture still more awful.
            In "Samson Agonistes" the poet speaks with a judicial severity that can not be
              misunderstood; in "Antony and Cleopatra" the dramatist's tone of mocking irony
              deceives the unthinking. Yet Shakespeare was no mocker. Not Milton himself was more
              strict when punishment was to be meted out. But he had what Milton had not, sympathy
              for every variety of human nature, a sympathy born of the heart, which in estimate of
              character is more discerning than the head.
            In both these great poets, so nearly contemporary, there is always a certain heroism,
              a glorious patriotism and devoted love for their England the "precious stone set in
              the silver sea," a noie trust in humanity and a lofty hope for the race. Byron makes
              us feel that the world is disorderly, licentious, cruel and fierce. It has been well
              said that the earth peopled with Byron's heroes--Giaours, Laras, Cains, and Don
              Juans--would be a hell. Fancy, on the other hand, a world of Cordelias, Kents, Edgars,
                 Violas, Portias! Shakespeare is happy with the
              happiness of a sweet, healthy spirit, "radiant," Carlyle would say, "with pepticity."
              Byron is miserable; the whole head and heart are sick, and he satirizes and jeers and
              hates. Through all the stir and tumult of life, Shakespeare sees law and order, the
              thread of duty binding day to day; confusion only when this thread is broken or
              tangled or lost. Both Shakespeare and Byron acknowledge a divinity that shapes our
              ends. One makes the acknowledgment with awe; the other shakes his fist in the face of
              the Almighty! We rise from Shakespeare with renewed interest in life, with renewed
              love for our kind, with renewed courage and strength, with gratitude to the
              interpreter of our mysterious world (obscure though his own understanding of the
              mystery often is), and with wonder and admiration for his mighty powers. We close
              Byron penetrated with the greatness, the awfulness of his genius, yet with faith
              unsettled, hope bewildered, with some feeling of repugnance and with almost an
              infinite pity.
            Some read in Shakespeare's works that he had no faith in God; none deny that he had
                 faith in man; if you trust your brother, can you not
              trust God?
            When I heard it said with reverence by a reader of the great dramatist, "He knew what
              was in man as no other knew except Jesus Christ," I thought of Hazlitt's report of the
              conversation on the persons one would wish to have seen. "There is only one other
              person I can ever think of after this," continued Lamb. "If Shakespeare were to come
              into the room, we should all rise up to meet him, but if that Person were to come into
              it, we should all fall down and try to kiss the hem of His garment."


            


            
              "Poor soul, the center of my sinful earth.
              Fooled by those rebel powers that thee array,
              Why dost thou pine within and suffer dearth,
              Painting thy outward walls so costly gay?
              Why so large cost, having so short a lease,
              Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend?
              Shall worms, inheritors of this excess,
              Eat up thy charge? Is this thy body's end?
              Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant, loss,
              And let that pine to aggravate thy store;
              Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross;
              Within be fed, without be rich no more,
              So shalt thou feed on Death, that feeds on men.
              And Death once dead, there is no more dying then."
            


          


          

          
            INDIANAPOLIS IN WAR TIME


            On the 12th of April, 1861, an intensely excited crowd in Indianapolis waited all day
              long for a telegraph despatch, no business attended to, nothing thought of but the
              coming message. The interest of months, the absorbing thought of weeks had culminated
              in a passion of anxiety-something decisive, something terrible was coming. But even
              yet there was an inconsistent, contradictory feeling of incredulity, of mocking, and
              of hope.
            At ten o'clock at night the despatch came: "Sumter has fallen." The
              crowd was absolutely still, and, with all the preparation of suspense, surprised.
              Rebellion, rebellion was what it meant; and that rebellion meant madness was every
              man's thought.
            But there was another message: "Mr. Lincoln will issue a proclamation to-morrow
              calling for seventy-five thousand volunteers." The crowd broke into a fierce shout.
              These audacious southern sons of the Republic should 
              learn what it was to defy just and lawful authority.
            That memorable Saturday was followed by a memorable Sunday. Not that any new thing
              occurred; all was new; life itself was new. That 12th of April revealed to men what
              their country was to them. In the insult to the high and just power of government,
              each man had been knocked down and trampled on. When the flag rose and swelled in the
              air, and dripped and drooped along the staff, a great and terrible pain throbbed in
              every heart; a strange, newborn, passionate, wounded, outraged love of country.
            The military institutions of Indiana consisted of a Quartermaster-General and an
              Adjutant-General, who were paid about one hundred dollars a year. Perhaps the whole
              state might have furnished arms for a single regiment; and possibly it might have
              mustered five independent companies of militia. But provisions and materials for war
              were absolutely lacking. There were, of course, no knapsacks, no haversacks, no
              canteens, no tents, and there was no money. In Indianapolis there was nothing  that smacked in the least of war except a poor little
              powder house somewhere in the suburbs, and the contents of that were meant for war on
              birds and squirrels. In twenty years the finances of Indiana had not been so low. The
              members of the Legislature and other state officers had been paid from the school
              fund, so empty was the treasury.
            The Executive department seemed in as bad a condition. The Governor, a tried and
              trusted man, had been put in the United States Senate, and had left the chief
              authority in the hands of the Lieutenant-Governor, a person named Morton. Who knew
              anything about Morton? But before the President's proclamation was out this new man
              had sent agents abroad for arms, and five minutes after the President's call for
              volunteers the Indiana Governor's call for Indiana's part of the seventy-five thousand
              was thrilling along the wires.
            If you have read the "Lady of the Lake" you remember that when Roderick Dhu and Fitz
              James stood on the desert mountain, as much alone as if they were the only men in all
              the Highlands, at a whistle from Roderick: 
              
                
                  "Instant, thro' copse and heath,
                  On right, on left, above, below,
                  Sprung up at once the lurking foe:
                  As if the yawning hill to heaven
                  A subterranean host had given."
                
               Thus Governor Morton's call was responded to. Fifteen thousand men answered. More
              than eight thousand came streaming into Indianapolis, and trooped, shouting, through
              shouting crowds to the spot assigned them for a camp, the grove north of the city,
              named at once "Camp Morton," for the man suddenly the best known personage in the
              state. This spot was selected because of its beauty, healthfulness and convenience. It
              contained thirty-six acres, was high and dry, could be easily supplied with wells of
              cold, pure water, and could be readily drained by means of a stream which ran through
              one end. Tall, spreading trees lightly shaded a blue-grass carpet, bordered in the
              fence corners with wild flowers. Flowers and grass never again spread over those
              acres.
            The volunteers were nearly all young men, and though many were clerks, lawyers,
              doctors and mechanics, the majority were farmers. It may be true that they who own
              land love their country best.


            


            The story, as told by their mother, of two country boys in the 7th Regiment, which
              was one of the first to be formed in Camp Morton, shows a little of the love and
              manliness that went into the army. These two young men were away from home, at work on
              a neighbor's farm, when the call reached them. It was on a Saturday (the 19th). The
              younger put his name down first on the enlistment roll. He was a good boy, said his
              mother, but he was thoughtless, and he had a weak chest; so the elder, partly for his
              country but partly for his brother, enlisted, too. He was twenty years old, steady and
              religious; his mother was not uneasy about him, nor was she uneasy about the younger,
              for had he not his brother to care for him, and was it not a good cause? They did not
              come home on Saturday nor on Sunday; she "reckoned" they could not tell her. And they
              went away without a goodby, except in a letter which some one brought her the same
              morning. But from Indianapolis, they sent her their daguerreotype and another letter
              which the mother read so often that she could say it by heart, beginning with the date
              and  ending with "Yours till death." "I wander around
              these hills," she said, "day and night, thinking about these two boys, for they are
              all I have, and wondering if they will ever come home again." Thousands of such boys
              were there in Camp Morton, while far away on the farm, often by the fireside of a
              lonely cabin, the mother, in plaintive voice, told the tale of their enlistment.
              Sometimes, as the war went on, the neighbors told of long, unrepining sorrow, of the
              light in the eyes gone out, of the fire on the hearth quenched.
            The volunteers were the best army material in the world, but they were only material;
              to turn them into soldiers was no easy task. It is a fact that "right" and "left" had
              to be explained by "haw" and "gee" for some of the country boys. In some cases, it is
              said, officers ordered wisps of straw wound around one foot, of hay about the other,
              and the drilling began easily with, "Hay-foot! straw-foot!" One of
              these slow, dull men of whom I personally knew burst out into a full blown hero in his
              first battle. His bearing, from that of an awkward booby, became dignified and
              soldierly.  He entered into the full meaning of
              patriotism, and into the full heritage of his soul, when he saw himself face to face
              with death. He was only one of many. The very dullest intellect may have sleeping
              behind it a glorious soul.
            To learn subordination was even harder than to learn military tactics. When a man had
              to go to another, not a bit better, possibly, than himself, and with whom he had
              perhaps been "hail fellow," and ask if he might go "down street," it filled him with
              consternation and wrath. He sometimes rebelled on the spot, and did not feel less
              rebellious when he was locked up in the guard house. In those first days everybody
              knew everything that took place at Camp Morton and public opinion was usually with the
              delinquent. No doubt the poor fellow had left a good home where he had luxuries of the
              table, soft beds, and freedom and fun to his heart's content; where there were few
              temptations, where his mother and his father had been his familiar friends and he had
              never dreamed of obeying anybody. The hardest lesson, therefore, was to obey, but,
              though more natural to command, neither was this easy. A  man had to know something in order to drill a squad. Three or four elderly officers
              had been trained in West Point, and three or four more had been in the Mexican War.
              These, and books on military discipline, were in demand. All who aspired to become
              officers studied Hardee's "Tactics."
            
              
                "They conned their books, but grasped them tight
                And studied, morning, noon and night."
              
            
            The delay necessary for drill was repugnant to the feelings of the volunteers. A
              tremendous impatience tugged at their heart-strings, and tingled to their finger ends.
              They stretched their limbs and doubled their fists, they set their teeth and loudly
              declared they were spoiling for a fight. "Right! Left! Shoulder arms!" The war would
              be over and no glory for Indiana! But the outspoken anger of these was light in
              comparison with the sullen wrath of those who were obliged to go back to their homes
              because the number was restricted to six thousand. Some actually cried. Governor
              Morton urged on the cabinet the danger of dampening enthusiasm, and his policy at
              length prevailed. In May and June new calls were  made;
              and in August all restrictions on volunteering were removed. The Governor's test in
              appointing officers was the energy and ability with which men had pursued their own
              business, and he made few mistakes.
            When 1861 closed, Indiana had sixty thousand men in the field; and the numerous camps
              around Indianapolis were still full. Our soldiers were no better or no braver than men
              from other states, but they were the tallest men in the army, and were fine, frank,
              manly fellows. Their way of speaking to all they met, said to be a habit more common
              among the country people of Indiana than of any other state, was very pleasant. The
              feeling between soldiers and citizens was friendly and free. The blue coat was an
              introduction to general good will. Our hands, our houses, our hearts were open to our
              soldiers. And people did not tire of liberality.
            The war was no sixty-day affair, as had been promised. It went on and on and
              recruiting went steadily on. The troops in town, though always changing, were never
              gone. The streets were always thronged. In a little more than four years, Indiana gave
              to the army more  than two hundred thousand men; not
              counting fifty thousand who, from time to time, were called into service to repel
              invaders and to defend the southern border. The town was full of noise and bustle,
              fire and fun, and feeling of every kind. The rub-a-dub of the drum, the wail of the
              fife, the tramp and rush of infantry and cavalry, the rattle and rumble of artillery;
              the cheers that went up day and night--cheers of welcome, cheers of greeting, cheers
              of farewell--the singing everywhere and at all hours of the "Star
                Spangled Banner," "Rally Round the Flag, Boys," or "John Brown's
                Body;" the red, white and blue, not only in the flags that were flying in the
              camps, over the hospitals, through all the streets, in the churches and in the homes,
              but in dress and in ornaments; the blue coats, the brass buttons and epaulets, the
              fuss and feathers, the public receptions, the flag presentations-all made such life
              and stir as probably Indianapolis will never again see. The shouts deep in the night,
              when some long train was starting off with its closely packed living freight towards
              the danger of the front, had a tremulous, penetrating, wild sort of pathos;  and the songs at night were more thrilling than in the
              day.
            The city was not only busy and bustling, it was growing. From eighteen thousand the
              population became seventy-five thousand, though this increase, of course, was not all
              permanent. All sorts of business flourished, from house building and woolen
              manufacture, to photographing; that is, from necessities to luxuries. An arsenal was
              established which sometimes employed five hundred persons. In 1861 there had been
              prepared at the arsenal, ninety-two thousand rounds of artillery ammunition, and
              twenty-one million nine hundred and fifteen thousand five hundred rounds of ammunition
              for small arms. The little hospital, started with much grumbling a few years before,
              was not half large enough, and an addition much larger than the original was
              built.
            Indianapolis was the center of the State Sanitary Commission, the first organization
              of the kind in the United States, which supplied the soldier everywhere, by means of
              agents employed without wages or salary or any pecuniary remuneration, with whatever
              the government  failed to furnish for his comfort and
              advantage in the hospital, in the camp, on the march or on the field. Alfred Harrison,
              of this city, was treasurer, and, with Mr. Hannaman and Mr. Merritt, chiefly, though
              many others were engaged, dispensed four hundred and fifty thousand dollars. They
              visited every field after each important battle, taking with them everything that
              sick, wounded or sound soldiers might need. In hospitals they gave advice, consolation
              and refreshment. Northwest of the town they built a large and commodious chapel for
              the soldiers who, at that distance, were tempted to stay away from the city
              churches.
            The sanitary goods were furnished by private contribution. Women canned fruit for the
              soldiers. They knit socks and mittens for them, often placing a little ball for
              darning and a little letter of kindness and encouragement in the toe of a sock. They
              scraped lint and prepared bandages. They worked for men they never had seen as they
              worked for their own sons. Housekeeping suffered. The call to give a dinner to a
              regiment passing through town on its way to the front, or to one that had just  arrived, was as promptly obeyed as it was peremptory.
              Hastily filling their baskets with the best in pantry or cellar, women ran to the
              railway station and joyfully served at tables. Our country and its danger, our
              soldiers and their hardships pressed not as a weight, but as a motive to constant and
              untiring exertion. The men who could not go to the field urgently and earnestly
              supported the soldiers.
            All the powers of Governor Morton's fine mind were in strenuous toil. He lived but
              for the country and the army. Already his health was breaking, but he could not sleep
              nor rest without being assured that all was done that could be done. It was no
              uncommon thing to see him enter the Union station at midnight, at one, two or three in
              the morning, that he might satisfy himself as to the comfort of the troops waiting
              there for transportation. This friend of the soldiers rests now in Crown Hill, with
              the sleeping heroes stretched beside him.
            At first, with the principal moving cause, patriotism, were mingled a wild love of
              adventure and a proud and scornful joy in the prospect of speedy victory, and of a
              glorious  homecoming. But soon the dark side of war
              showed itself. The hospital, with its extensive additions, was crowded with sick and
              wounded sent up from the southern battlefields. Often and often a long narrow pine box
              on the pavement in front of the express office gave a shudder to the lively, passing
              throng. For in every box was a dead soldier, one who had gone out blooming and brave,
              with a high heart and hope.
            The tidings of battle--it mattered little whether of victory or defeat, for one is
              only less terrible than the other--turned the very light into darkness. The first
              rumor sometimes was that ten thousand had fallen; and we thought of the ten thousand
              homes, plunged into sudden sorrow; ten thousand mothers, or wives, or sisters, or
              little children whose happiness was blasted. We heard of our soldiers starving among
              the mountains of Tennessee, freezing on the plains of Missouri and slowly tortured to
              death in the prison pens of Libby and in Andersonville. Never went up to Heaven more
              fervent prayers for country and its heroes, than rose from closet and from family
              altar.

            

            Some twenty or thirty women went from town as hospital nurses. One of these, an
              idolized and indulged daughter, wrote thus to her parents: "The work is only hard and
              sad because it is so terrible to see these brave fellows suffer. I want to do it above
              everything. I never was half so happy in my life. It is the best blessing that God
              ever gave me, to let me come and help in the only way a woman can. If I may only have
              this work until the war is over, and the strength to do it, I shall never complain of
              anything again. I would buy the privilege with the happiest hour and memory I
              have."
            The most pitiful spectacle that Indianapolis ever saw was in 1862, on the anniversary
              of Washington's birthday, and the two following days. It was the arrival of several
              thousand prisoners after the surrender of Fort Donelson, gray old men and slender
              boys, with sad, lacklustre eyes and haggard faces. Over butternut-dyed woolen
              "wa'muses" they wore quilts, blankets and strips of carpet. They carried frying-pans
              or tea-kettles, crackers and bacon, bundles or meal bags, stuffed with clothing or  bedding. They were thrifty small farmers from town and
              landless squatters from the pine hills of Mississippi, accustomed to a climate where
              roses bloom all the year round. They had suffered greatly lying in rifle-pits day and
              night, in rain and snow, with little food and no shelter during the entire siege. They
              were humiliated by the surrender, distressed by their distance from home, full of
              fears for their future, exhausted, without energy to wash themselves, despondent to
              the last degree, and almost without vitality. One-tenth of them had frozen hands or
              feet. Pity and curiosity, and only pity and curiosity, were on the faces which gazed
              on the prisoners, wearily dragging themselves to Camp Morton, relinquished to them
              because it was the largest and most secure of the camps. Everything possible was done
              for their health and comfort, yet many were at once attacked with pneumonia or kindred
              disease. One hundred and forty-four died the first month. As the city hospital and the
              camp hospital would not accommodate all the sick, three or four buildings in the
              center of the town were appropriated to their use. They were under the charge  of Doctors Bobbs, Bullard, Dunlap, Jameson and Fletcher.
              Inspectors from Washington at regular intervals examined the camp and hospitals. Dr.
              Bullard's hospital was the old post-office, near the corner of Meridian and Washington
              streets. The Doctor asked me, among other women, to help in getting it ready, as he
              wished not to lose an hour or a minute. We sewed up the beds, made "comforts," cut the
              eagle off new Federal uniforms and sewed black buttons on, spread blankets and heated
              bricks to put at the feet of the sick as they came from camp. We continued from that
              time to do what we could. One of our members, a young woman, asked her mother for a
              pillow to give to a Mississippian, who had complained that his head was too low. "I
              can't give you one," was the reply, "I stripped the house for our sick soldiers in
              Kentucky; you have stripped it since for the rebels, and really there is nothing
              left." "Then I'll give him my pillow," said the daughter. So she carried her pillow to
              the hospital and herself slept with a folded blanket under her head.
            One of the saddest sights of the war was that 
              presented by the prisoners from Fort Donelson, but the most pitiable was the return to
              the army of arrested deserters. In the single month of December, 1862, more than two
              thousand deserters were taken back through Indianapolis alone. This was inconsistent
              with the enthusiasm of patriotism that led men into the army. But it is no new thing
              to turn back after putting the hand to the plow. Garibaldi, when he was recruiting his
              forces in Italy, said: "I offer you hunger, thirst, cold, want, wounds, death--who
              will choose these for liberty, let him follow me." Our officers were not so frank.
              Indeed they had not the experience.
            In every civil war there are two parties, smaller in number than those actively
              engaged, and each sympathizing with the enemy. In the South were Union people; in the
              North, were secessionists. So far as they could and dared, the secessionists of
              Indiana thwarted every plan of Governor Morton. Political opposition was supported by
              conspiracy. A day was appointed for a general uprising. Rebel officers were at the
              Bates House, in disguise, of course, to take command. Arms for the conspirators
              arrived.  The alert Governor, however, opened the boxes,
              finding, not only arms, but a fuse nearly a mile long, and "Greek fire" for
              conflagration. The "Knights of the Golden Circle" were balked. But conspirators never
              represent, or can represent an American party. Honest difference of opinion must exist
              often, but will never seek to hide itself under a black mask or behind treacherous
              smiles.
            In the summer of 1863 we had another fright; this time from the outside. It was
              Wednesday, the 8th of July, and the evening was as peaceful and as silent as if "no
              war or battle's sound was heard the world around," when suddenly came a loud clank of
              the alarm bell. Then there was a minute, or five minutes, of deathly stillness.
              Another stroke! Another awful hush! Then a clang, and clangor and clamor, a roar and
              uproar of bells, everywhere. When the bells stopped the air was filled with the stir
              of a mighty multitude. All the town was streaming towards the Bates House. I can yet
              hear Governor Morton's ringing voice from the Bates House balcony. "John Morgan is
              coming. He has crossed the Ohio.  He is in Indiana. He
              has with him four or five thousand horsemen and artillery. Organize without delay. Go
              at once to your wards!"
            John Morgan was a wild Kentucky trooper, with a wilder troop at his heels. Burning
              barns was fun as well as policy to this band; clearing out ovens and pantries,
              stealing horses and money, were necessities of war and their business. The bank sent
              their gold and most of their currency to New York; the bank of the state cancelled
              twenty-three thousand dollars of its own issue and shipped two hundred and sixty
              thousand dollars in gold and currency. People concealed their valuables and hurried to
              enlist. Within three days thirty thousand men were organized into regiments, twenty
              thousand coming in from the country, although it was harvest time. University Park,
              all the central streets, and Virginia Avenue to the Union station were crowded with
              men who, at the call, had dropped everything and caught up their knapsacks. At three
              in the morning of the 11th the alarm bell gave notice of immediate danger. The citizen
              soldiers were hurried  off. But John Morgan fled away
              and his pursuers came home and disbanded, and few were the worse for the raid.
            In spite of victories now and then, some of them of very great importance, the
              refusal of the Legislature to give help, the discovery of treachery in our own town,
              the continuance of the war, the constant call for troops and money, had a depressing
              effect. The popularity of the mournful song, "When this cruel war is over," was an
              indication of a decrease in vigor and buoyancy of feeling. "After all," came the
              thought to many minds, "was not the struggle to prove a failure? Was not our noble
              country, the hope of the world, falling to pieces?" Never again, if our Union failed,
              would men be able to establish a free government. With our hopes would be blasted the
              prospects of mankind. And we were growing hopeless.
            When the hundred-days' men were called out, it seemed a dying effort, though the call
              met cheerful response. Our town never saw a finer regiment than her own, the 132nd. It
              was not the flower of the town-that had long before been carried away-but the men were
              brave and  true. It pierced Indianapolis to the heart
              when, after a few days of drill and business, for many were held in the toils of
              business until the last moment, the regiment, on the 21st of May, 1864, was ordered
              off. In the short period of a hundred days' service, and hard service it was, some
              died, without whom, to this day, our lives have been poorer.
            But the darkest hour is just before dawn. While the hundred-days' men guarded bridges
              and roads and mountain passes, Sherman made his magnificent march to the sea. Thomas
              scattered the enemy in the southwest before him. Grant took Fort Fisher, Petersburg
              and Richmond, and prevailed on Lee to surrender.
            April 15th, 1865, was a fair and joyful day. The sun was shining, the sky was blue
              and cloudless. Such a day should usher in only happiness. A single sentence put out
              the light: "President Lincoln has been assassinated!"
            There had been talk of assassination of Governor Morton, and he had been shot at one
              midnight as he left the heavy labors of his office. But we had not really believed.
              Assassination in our country seemed impossible. Yet  the
              President was assassinated. He had lived through the terror and struggle. He had died
              in the hour of triumph.
            A few days later the murdered man lay in state in our old capitol; on the arch over
              his head, "Sic transit gloria mundi," and thousands upon thousands passing his bier.
              On the blackest of nights, the body was carried away through a lane of motionless
              soldier torchbearers.
            On the 2d of June, 1865, peace was proclaimed. The troops returned to Indianapolis,
              and were mustered out, regiment by regiment. The summer and fall were a continual
              jubilee. But the web of our life is of mingled threads; the bright may dazzle, but the
              black is there. As the regiments marched up from the Union station men and women stood
              here and there along the streets with eyes fixed on the fluttering flag, and tears
              pouring over their sad faces. Deaf to the welcoming shouts, blind to the rejoicing
              crowd, they saw shadowy figures following the flag, dim faces that would smile on them
              no more.
            The living were welcomed home with  universal joy; the
              dead were remembered with unspeakable sorrow. But the sorrow was individual; the joy
              was general, for the country was saved! The country that above all others was the
              hope, and is the hope, of the world.
            
              
                "She that lifts up the manhood of the poor,
                She of the open soul and open door
                With room about her hearth for all mankind!
                Oh beautiful! My country, ours once more!
                Among the nations bright beyond compare!
                What were our lives without thee?
                What all our lives to save thee?"
              
            
            It may be that none of you will be called to die or to suffer for our country, but it
              is something to live worthily. It is a debt you owe to those who saved this fair
              land.
          

          
          

            THE RAINBOW--A MEMORY

            A swift, rushing April shower was just over, when the school in the hewed-log,
              one-roomed schoolhouse on Maryland street had its recess. The sky was of deepest blue,
              and all across the vault of heaven was a vivid rainbow. It stood out like a thing
              built apart from the sky above and the earth below. The boys and girls, as they
              streamed out, cheered the rainbow, and with loud laughter hurrahed for the pot of
              gold. They were merrier than ever when the teacher's little daughter, the youngest
              child in school, consented to go in search of the pot of gold.
            To reach it she must climb a rail fence of appalling height, with long,
              fiercely-pointed rails at every corner, and must find her way across a newly-plowed
              field that looked almost as wide as the world. The boys cheered her on and the girls
              helped her up the first rails. Hand over hand, foot cautiously following foot, at last
              she reached the dizzy top, and  dared to look down. On
              one side was the vast field, on the other encouraging friends, far below and far off.
              Step by step, rail by rail, bravely she climbed down and ventured out in the sticky
              mud.
            Half way across the field she felt the thrill of a great and sudden change. She
              looked up. There was no rainbow. She looked back. There were no children. There was
              nothing in the world but emptiness and silence, no color above, only a cold, gray sky;
              no sound, nor sight on earth-only a vast solitude.

          

          

          

            LITERARY CRITICISM


            Apples lying long in a cellar among coarse vegetables lose their native taste and
              smell. Most things are subject to the influence of association. Though of good family
              and reputable history, certain words have lost their original characteristics, and
              have gathered to themselves a foreign flavor and a bad odor. "Politics" is of
              honorable origin and good connection; yet our wise men are trying either to oust it
              from the language or to sink it irrecoverably, and to exalt to the seat of honor the
              newly invented "civics," making the latter represent the science of government, teach
              the citizen's duties and responsibilities, and inspire an honest, vigorous patriotism.
              Though this is perhaps the only organized attempt on record to banish or degrade a
              word, it is no new thing for the honest laborer of one generation to become the base
              villain of another.
            "Censure," the impartial judge of the seventeenth century, stands by the
              whipping-post in  the eighteenth. "Criticism" slipped
              into the judicial chair when "censure" dropped out of it;but "criticism" has brought
              on itself unmeasured obloquy, at one time playing the part of the venal Hastings, at
              another of the bullying Coke, and again of the murderous Jeffreys.
            Swift called critics rats, dogs, wasps, and all the other bad names he could think
              of. Steele, not especially rich in the language of invective, thought the critic the
              silliest of mortals. Wordsworth set criticism down as an inglorious employment. Even
              Scott had few good words for critics; and Mrs. Oliphant calls them "born conservators
              of the sneers of all the ages." Shelley heaped curses upon the reviewer, who in the
                "Hang, Draw and Quarterly," as the new critical magazine of his
              day was called, had added a pang to the death throes of Keats; if he had not, as was
              at the time generally believed, even put an end to the youthful poet's life.
            "Miserable man," cried Shelley; "You, one of the meanest, have wantonly defaced one
              of the noblest specimens of the workmanship of God." He goes on in flaming verse:

            

            
              
                "Live, thou, whose infamy is not thy fame!
                Live! Fear no heavier chastisement from me,
                Thou noteless blot on a remembered name!
                But be thyself, and know thyself to be!
                Remorse and self-contempt shall cling to thee;
                Hot shame shall burn upon thy secret brow;
                And like a beaten hound tremble thou shalt--as now."
              
            
            Kirke White's young life, too, was saddened, and perhaps shortened, by criticism of
              the same character.

            Byron said:
            
              
                "'Tis strange, the mind, that very fiery particle,
                Should let itself be snuffed out by an article."
              
            

            Strange it is, but true, that little airy nothings made by a breath can stab with
              murderous force.
            The principle with these savage critics seems to be that none is fit to live who is
              not able to bear in the infancy of his genius the windy top of Mount Taygetus, or, in
              the childhood of his efforts, the blood-drawing thongs of the priests of Artemis.
            Disgrace has been brought on criticism not more by its severity than by its
              eccentricity. The vagaries of authoritative opinion would lead to the conclusion that
              there is no standard of excellence. Atterbury exhorted Pope to put Samson Agonistes
              into civilized costume.  Fortunately for his own fame,
              the little peppery author of the Dunciad withstood the flattering proposal to
              reconstruct that grand production of our most sublime poet. Dryden, less modest,
              tagged rhymes to Paradise Lost. Johnson censured the harshness of Collins and the
              obscurity of Gray. Congreve could not understand the dullness of Shakespeare's women.
              Wolcot ridiculed Dryden's Alexander's Feast. Walpole wrote, "'She Stoops to Conquer'
              is a very wretched comedy;" and he spoke of its author as "that silly Dr. Goldsmith."
              Wordsworth held in slight esteem "Scots wha hae wi Wallace bled." Christopher North
              thought Tennyson a sighing, wordy fop. Hume declared that the tragedy of Douglas would
              outlive Hamlet. Lord Loughborough, when a motion was made in the General Assembly of
              the Presbyterian Church of Scotland to prohibit the attendance of church members at
              the theatre, asserted that four lines of the tragedy of Douglas had in them as much
              power for good as was in all the sermons produced by the genius of the whole Scotch
              church.
            It is fortunate for those who are easily led  that these
              doctors of literature do not by any means agree among themselves. To Macaulay Horace
              Walpole was a mere affected, pretentious, worldling; Walpole was to Carlyle "a radiant
              spirit." Arnold "assaying" Byron's work:

            
              
                "Examining it, and testing it, and weighing,
                Proved the gems are pure, the gold endures;
                While Swinburne cries with an exceeding joy,
                'The stones are paste, and half the gold alloy.'"
              
            
            Byron said that he and Scott, Wordsworth and Campbell, were all wrong, one as much as
              another; that Rogers and Crabbe alone of contemporary poets were free from the errors
              of the day; and that the present and the next generation would finally be of this
              opinion. Lord Holland thought Crabbe the greatest genius of modern poets. Lord
              Melbourne said Crabbe degraded every subject he handled. Neither Holland nor Melbourne
              had any respect for Wordsworth.
            Lies always rot; but, says some one, "they often do their evil work before they rot."
              There is no doubt that many a young writer of the first quarter of the nineteenth
              century was discouraged by the forbidding tone of the reviewers;  and that of those who persevered many were restrained and depressed. The
              finger of scorn, though it was despised and defied, and though it could not crush
              Skiddaw, could and did make Wordsworth egotistical, self-conscious, and
              self-assertive, his manners contrasting very unfavorably with the modest, good-humored
              ease of the readily-appreciated Scott. The great poet, however, held on the even tenor
              of his way, guided by his intellectual conscience, and in the end commanded respect
              and lifted his readers to the level of appreciation. But it was the hoary head of an
              old man that was crowned with honors on that stirring day at Oxford, too late for
              blood to burn, for cheek to flush, or heart to beat high. He conquered a peace, and
              for others than himself. Never again, there is reason to hope, can a rollicking set of
              young men, however keen their wits, venture name and fame in the excitement of
              vivisection. Whetted knives and sardonic grins are out of style in literature as they
              are in society.
            Ignorance is the key to the most serious mistakes that have occurred in the history
              of criticism. Gray was obscure because the readers of 
              his day, intimate with Virgil, Horace, and Terence, were ignorant of the history of
              their own country and ignorant of their ignorance. Wise in their own conceit, puffed
              up with their narrow learning and by mutual admiration (always a dangerous thing),
              these same critics hounded poor Chatterton on to his death; and, in destroying that
              desolate boy, robbed our history, if the fruit is to be guessed by the blossom, of a
              brilliant chapter in its literature. "Ignorance," says a French writer, "which in
              matters of morals extenuates the crime, is itself in matters of literature a crime of
              the first order."
            No thoughtful reader calls a book obscure without much pondering and hesitation.
              Goethe says, "He who would reproach an author with obscurity, ought first to make an
              examination of himself to be sure that he is inwardly clear. A very clear handwriting
              may not be legible by twilight." Coleridge puts it thus: "When we meet an apparent
              error in a good author, we are to presume ourselves ignorant of his understanding,
              until we are certain that we understand his ignorance."


            

            Stupidity is one phase of ignorance. Though promised a silk gown for each one of
              Scott's novels she would read, and though very happy in the possession or the prospect
              of such attire, a young lady who appeared very well in society declared after several
              attempts at reading them, that Scott's novels were so dull she could not get through
              one.
            I have heard the following bits of discourse: "I don't like Howells." "Why?"--"Oh, I
              don't know. I just don't like him." "Maybe you have no taste for that sort of thing.
              You would rather read history, biography, essays, philosophy, poetry?"--"Goodness, no.
              I like history sometimes, a little. Dickens' History of England has some real good
              chapters in it. Don't you think so? Biography? Yes, if it's interesting. I can't think
              of any I ever read, though. Essays?--now and then. Novels?--always." "Then you ought
              to like Howells." "Well, I don't."
            "I can't bear Uncle Tom's Cabin."--"Why?" "Oh, I'm a Democrat." "That has as much to
              do with it as the color of your hair." "No more? Well, I never read it, so I can't
              give any better reason."

            

            One might as well argue with butterflies and breezes.
            Prejudice is twin-sister of ignorance, and is worse because it has in it a decided
              element of falsehood. Hume thought Home greater than Shakespeare, because Hume and
              Home and Douglas and Norval were all Scotchmen. The story is told of a certain Scotch
              laird, that a few years after the battle of Waterloo he took his family, for economy
              and education, to Tours, in France, where, about 1832, he was visited by an old
              neighbor who had never before been on the continent. The laird hospitably entertained
              his friend, showing him the curiosities of the city, until they came to something
              which, though very interesting, he could not explain. "Do ask this person to tell us
              about it," urged the visitor. "Na, na; nathing of the kind," said the laird, "for I
              maun tell you that I hate the French people, and I hate their language. And hae I not
              hauden weel aff not to hae picked ony o' it up in fourteen years?" Prejudice is a
              stupendous bulwark against knowledge.
            Ignorance, stupidity, caprice, prejudice, are  Samson's
              foxes, tied tail to tail with a fire brand in the midst; but not for the destruction
              of the Philistines.
            There is no appreciation without sympathy. Milton's most sublime conceptions do not
              make the mathematician thrill as do the propositions that lead with the precision and
              exactness of line and measure through the ethereal regions from sphere to sphere and
              light to light. The mathematician, therefore, is not the critic for Paradise Lost.
            Pope looked with surprise and suspicion on the delight that Handel's music gave to
              London society; he asked Bolingbroke, a passionate lover of music, if this were not
              all affectation. He that hath no music in his soul is not the critic for the
              Messiah.
            Repelled by his dislike of the horrible, Scott could find nothing to enjoy in Dante;
              neither could the easy, joy-loving soul of Leigh Hunt; and Voltaire declared that the
              great poem of the Middle Ages was little better than the cries of a raving maniac. It
              is a secret, subtile, mystic cord that binds together the souls of writer and reader;
              or it is one of those aerial  pontoons De Quincey speaks
              of, over which thought runs to thought and soul to soul. Perhaps many a pining
              prisoner heard the wandering minstrel under his tower; to one alone did the twang of
              Blondel's harp give hope and the promise of liberty.
            Criticism is as legitimate as is any kind of weighing, measuring, or judging. The
              tests, of course, belonging to the soul, not to the sense, are in more danger of being
              misapplied.
            The subject of a literary work is worthy the first consideration; *is, indeed, of
              supreme importance. Many a genius has only his labor for his pains, because the
              subject over which he has toiled is in itself unworthy. Two bloody, brawny women
              engaged in fierce combat is a subject that degrades the brush and the canvas, that is
              unworthy of the efforts of genius, and that offends the refined taste, whatever may be
              the artist's knowledge of anatomy and his skill in depicting passion. Blood and brawn
              are not esthetic. Phineas Fletcher's noble genius was cast away on "The Purple
              Island." Swift wasted wit on the grossest themes. One class of novelists makes
              infamous choice of subjects;  another picks out the
              narrow and the trivial. There are preachers who, like the old schoolmen, discuss with
              infinite pains things beyond the pale of human knowledge, or without the pale of human
              sympathy. An author's interpretation, it is true, may lift the common, though never
              the unclean, into the region of art; Benlinda's ringlet forever shines a
              constellation; the Dean's broomstick and the Philosopher's whistle are among the
              unforgettable; and Cowper's sofa is immortal.
            If the author has chosen a worthy subject, the next consideration is the prevailing
              and pervading thought. Sometimes the Bible, or Shakespeare, ir any author under
              consideration may give line or sentence in which the motive is embodied. Though the
              verse may not have been in his mind, it has been suggested that the inspiring thought
              of Johnson's noble poem, "The Vanity of Human Wishes," is, in the Psalmist's words,
              "He gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul." Tennyson's "Palace of
              Art" is an application to intellectual and esthetic selfishness of the story of a
              certain rich man, "So is he that layeth up treasure for 
              himself, and is not rich toward God." It is easy to find a Scriptural text for each of
              Shakespeare's tragedies. The great dramatist is said to comprehend all men, but there
              is One who knows still better what is in man. Prof. Dowden, who is a sincere and an
              especially sympathetic critic, says, "The happiest moment in the hours of study of a
              critic of literature is when, seemingly by some divination, but really the result of
              patient observation and thought, he lights upon the central motive of a great work."
              When the key is once in hand, the analysis of a literary work is easily made and the
              relation of subordinate parts to each other and to the whole is easily discovered.
              There are readers who get scattered ideas from a work without being able to see its
              wholeness, its oneness. They are like the measuring worm that, for all its pains, its
              stretchings out and its doublings up, has no notion of the traversed sleeve.

            
              
                "In wit, as nature, what affects our hearts
                Is not the exactness of peculiar parts;
                'Tis not a lip or eye we beauty call,
                But the joint force and full result of all."
              
            

            It is certain, however, that one can not appreciate the whole without a study of the
              parts, nor  can one appreciate without some knowledge of
              style. "Read the rules of dramatic poetry," advised a friend, as James Ralph was
              setting himself to work to write a play. Ralph smiled and replied, "Shakespeare writ
              without rules." Only to a couplet of the Dunciad does the self-satisfied dramatist owe
              such immortality as he gained:

            
              
                "Silence, ye wolves, while Ralph to Cynthia howls,
                And makes night hideous-answer him, ye owls."
              
            
            It is well for lesser geniuses, whether of poet or critic, to "know the rulbs."
              Though, as it is possible to speak elegant English without being able to repeat a line
              of grammar, so, with the rules at the tongue's end, one may have neither sense nor
              taste to make proper application.
            But knowledge of style is not enough; beyond knowledge is the feeling that is partly
              a gift, partly the result of training. When Thomas Chalmers was three years old he was
              missed one evening after dark, and was found alone in the nursery, walking up and down
              and saying to himself, "0 my son, Absalom! 0 Absalom, my son, my son!" Baby though he
              was, he felt the mysterious beauty of style, and  all
              unconsciously was developing nature's precious gift and training himself to sway the
              heart of Scotland. Not mere training, not grammar, nor logic, nor rhetoric, nor
              school, can take the place of familiarity with the excellent. To learn by heart has a
              better meaning than to commit to memory. Let names and dates and rules and boundary
              lines be committed to memory, although that treacherous faculty too often betrays; but
              let the beautiful words of the great thinkers be stamped forever on the heart. The
              false sentiment will never be entertained as the true where such lines as these are at
              home:

            
              
                "And beauty born of murmuring sound
                Shall pass into her face;"
              
            

            Or,--

            
              
                "Thy soul was like a Star, and dwelt apart;
                Thou hadst a voice whose sound was like the sea;
                Pure as the naked heavens, majestic, free,
                So didst thou travel on life's common way."
              
            
            Or,--

            
              
                "Look how the floor of heaven
                Is thick in-laid with patines of bright gold.
                There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
                But in his motion like an angel sings,
                Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubims;
                Such harmony is in immortal souls;
                But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
                Doth grossly close it in, we can not hear it."
              
            

            

            The heart in which such lines ring and sing is attuned to harmony. Lofty sentiments
              set to noble music, they not only form a test for literary worth, but they are in
              themselves spiritual riches, which, told over and over as the miser tells his gold,
              add a grace and a glow to pleasure, give sweetness to toil, softness to sorrow, and
              dignity to the commonness of daily life.
            The delicate force that lies in the accurate use of words is one of the elements of a
              good style. It is ungrateful as well as unappreciative to neglect the beauties of our
              mother-tongue. Much of the polished precision of the French language is due to the
              determination and persistence of its great authors, including its great critics. An
              hour before his death, Malherbe roused himself to reprove his nurse for the use of an
              incorrect word. His confessor reprimanded him; but the dying man insisted that it was
              his duty to defend to the death the purity of his native language. It is only by the
              accurate use of words that we can communicate truth.
            The weightiest consideration as to the value of a book lies in its influence on
              character and  life. If it make the world wider, life
              more interesting and more inspiring, the temper sweeter, the heart more sincere, the
              manners more gentle; if it impart to the intellect something higher and more vivid; if
              it make one stronger, wiser, better; if it "console the afflicted, add sunshine to
              daylight by making the happy happier; if it teach the young and the gracious of every
              age to see, to think, and feel, and therefore to become more actively and securely
              virtuous"--if it do all or any of this, then it has high merit.
            One of the most interesting things to the student of literature is the revelation of
              the author in his work. At what does he laugh? Shakespeare never laughs at sin nor at
              holiness nor at frivolity, and he shows that the frivolous are often the criminal.
              Over what does the author weep? What does he admire? What does he love? Does he look
              at man and at things with fresh eyes and a fresh soul? Are his five gateways of
              knowledge wide and wide open? The delight that Milton took in forms and colors, in the
              voices of nature, in all melodies and harmonies, in fragrance, in touch and  in taste, in force and softness and grace, shows a keen
              and wholesome vitality.
            So far from detracting from the enjoyment of a literary work close critical study
              gives it a zest. There is a little affectation in Andrew Lang's self-pity. "It is a
              cruel thing," he says, "that where all the rest love, you can only admire; where all
              the rest are idolaters, you may not bend the knee, but must stand apart and beat upon
              your breast, observing, not adoring--a critic." More sincere and more correct are the
              words of Saintsbury: "Of the critical intent, one thing can be said with confidence--
              that the presence and the observation of it, so far from injuring the delight of
              reading, add to that delight in an extraordinary degree. It heightens the pleasure in
              the perusal of the best by transforming a confused into a rational appreciation."
            The critic's responsibility is threefold--to himself, to the reader, and to the
              writer. Slovenly and false work of any kind tells on character. Superficial judgment,
              hasty and ill-informed opinion, blunt the power of discrimination and dull the sense
              of right.  Always to do one's best insures not only
              peace of mind but continued growth. The courage of one's own convictions gives
              self-respect and dignity. The censure of small critics may never offend, and may never
              mislead; all the same, it should be honest.
            The critic is guide and interpreter. Joubert says: "To accustom mankind to pleasures
              which depend neither upon the bodily appetites nor upon money by giving them a taste
              for the things of mind, seems to me, in fact, the one proper fruit which nature has
              meant our literary productions to have." The critic directs attention to the
              beautiful, the noble, and the good. He points out meanings, excellences, glories;
              opens out mysteries; shows, too, blunders, blots, and blemishes that the inexperienced
              and the untraveled in the world of books might not for himself discover. He does for
              the reader what the sister of nature's great poet did for him.
            
              
                "She gave me eyes, she gave me ears;
                 * * * * *
                A heart, the fountain of sweet tears;
                And love, and thought, and joy."
              
            

            Every traveler knows the sickness of the heart that comes from learning too late what
              he has  missed. Perhaps his profane thoughts were
              wandering to trifling personal affairs while he stood all unawares on places sacred to
              God love and to human love-the very spot, perhaps, where the venerable Latimer lifted
              up a cheerful voice amid fagot and flame; or where the beautiful Mary and the princely
              Maximilian exchanged troth and kisses in the faces of the loving and loyal city, and
              so turned the current of European history. A guide or a guide-book saves the
              uninformed traveler (and who can be informed of everything?) such heart-pangs of
              regret. The critic, I repeat, is a guide.
            We hold in grateful remembrance the hand that planted the tree that shades our door,
              or trained the vine that yields us grapes, and we owe grateful reverence and love to
              him who made for us a good book--"who gave us nobler loves and nobler cares." We owe
              nothing for the "books that are no better than wolves in sheep's clothing." We owe it
              to none to call ugliness, beauty; awkwardness, grace; falsehood, truth, or wrong in
              any way, right. Black is black, crooked is crooked, wrong is wrong, whatever the
              reason, wherever the place.

            

            It is not necessarily presumption for the small to measure and judge the great. In
              one of Tolstoi's novels a handsome old peasant is asked what he thinks of the
              Emperor's proclamation of war about which everybody is talking. "Why should we think?"
              he answers smilingly; "our Emperor will think for us. He knows what to do." In the
              Empire of Letters anybody who claims any sort of citizenship must think. It is not an
              empire, it is a republic, and all have the franchise. That only a Shakespeare can
              fully and perfectly measure a Shakespeare is no reason why any one may not make a
              study of Shakespeare, and, so far as he can, measure and master the mighty work of the
              mightiest of minds. The student's failure may mark his own littleness, but the effort
              tends to lift him above and beyond his narrow limitations.
            "Their works drop groundward," says Andrea del Sarto, of the artists, who, inferior
              to him in workmanship, had still an inspiration to which he was a stranger,

            
              
                "Their works drop groundward, but themselves, I know,
                Reach many a time a heaven that's shut to me."
              
            

            

            The greatest of writers would not smile, unless with happy pride, to see the
              unpracticed student reaching toward his thought, and trying to discover the secret of
              his higher life. "A man's reach should exceed his grasp."

          


          

          

            PERSONAL LITERATURE OF THE VICTORIAN AGE

             [This essay and the one following, on "John Foster," are the only
              ones completed of a series begun by Miss Merrill during the last year of her life. The
              two were published at the time in the Indianapolis News.] 
            
              I

              In beginning a series of papers on English literature, it seems proper to confine
                myself to one period, and, for a time, to one class in that period.
              There has been no narrowness in the taste of the nineteenth century. History
                flourishes as it never before flourished; science, in ceasing to be the antithesis
                of poetry and the antagonist of religion, has become popular and familiar; biography
                fills libraries; essays occupy many pages in the magazines, and, to the world, still
                crying, "Tell me a story!" a thousand pens respond, "Here is your story!"
              In this century, too, is an eagerness to read actual life, life more real than the
                realistic novel, more real than biography itself; and a  generous consent accords to the world a transcript of the actual in the form of
                private letters and unstudied work of the kind-really not work, but literary play.
                It is well. It may be gossip, but gossip is not the worst thing! 'Words, like
                characters, usually retain, through the vicissitudes of their career, something of
                their original stamp. "Godsib" means a relation, not a relation in blood, but in
                God; and the godsib, or gossip, in the first use of the word, assumed a sacred and
                tender responsibility at the beautiful rite of baptism. It therefore has claim to
                respectability in so far as it has but a neighborly, sympathetic interest in the
                affairs of others. In its first and proper meaning, it is distinct from scandal and
                free from frivolity. Personal literature, such as memoirs, letters and diaries, is a
                fine kind of gossip. It touches the springs of humor, pathos and the kindly
                curiosity that is one form of the love of humanity. It gratifies the desire to know
                the concrete. Its very unconsciousness of being literature gives it the charm of
                artlessness. When you see the author at his desk, at his fireside, when you hear his
                table-talk, when in silence and sympathy  you read his
                intimate letters you sun yourself in his friendship. The soul has its friendships
                quite dissevered from time and space. Tears came into the eyes of Dr. Thomas Arnold
                once when he heard John the Apostle disparaged in favor of St. Paul. He would not
                diminish the glory of Paul, but he loved John.
              Until lately, English literature was almost devoid of epistolary correspondence, of
                anything, indeed, that savored of personal disclosure. English nature seemed too
                reticent or too proud, too cold or too indifferent to let the public get a peep
                behind English walls. Though it might be all dust and desert without, all roses and
                fountains within, the tired wayfarer should have no whiff of fragrance or drop of
                coolness. Added to this reserve was an extreme carelessness in regard to the
                preservation of papers. Letters passing from hand to hand were worn to rags, and the
                more bulky forms of this literature, if they escaped fire and sword, division of
                families, removals, and the all-destroying bookworm, mildew, and dust, were hidden,
                perhaps lost, in a dark shelf of an unexplored library. But libraries have been  searched, and their treasures exposed. The islanders
                have grown cosmopolitan. No longer satisfied with a slightly contemptuous enjoyment
                of French wit, veracity and candor, they have, within the last hundred years, not
                only published private papers, which they have drawn from obscure corners and
                crannies, they are now handing out to the lovers of the past and of the curious
                their own reminiscences. And Americans, though possessing even a greater share of
                Anglo-Saxon aversion to publicity, because of greater sensitiveness to ridicule,
                arising possibly from vanity, added to a sort of childlike pain and anger at being
                touched--even Americans have yielded to the current. There is something of fashion
                in thought as well as in dress. A thing once begun and commended goes on with
                increasing force.
              The oldest series of English letters that we have are the Paston letters. According
                to Hallam, the historian of the middle ages, these letters supply a precious link in
                the chain of the moral history of England. John Selden, eminent scholar, lawyer and
                patriot of the  seventeenth century, says in his grave
                table-talk: "Take a straw and throw it up into the air. Ybu shall see by that which
                way the wind is, which you shall not do by casting up a stone. More solid things do
                not show the complexion of the times so well."
              The fifteenth century, notwithstanding the four great events that give it a fame
                beyond other centuries-the invention of printing, the discovery of America, the
                flight of learning from the falling and fallen Greek empire, and the rise of the
                Medici, generous patrons of art and learning-was everywhere a time of tumult and
                turmoil, and, so far as thought is concerned, it was a day of small things.
                Especially was this .the case in England, which was cruelly trampled and torn by the
                wars of the Roses and other disturbances connected with the disputed royal
                succession. In the century after Chaucer one really great English book was written.
                It is in this dark hour before dawn that we have the "precious link."
              Nearly five hundred years ago lived a family, Paston by name, that had made its way
                up from serfdom in the peasantry to the possession of 
                lands, learning, position and titles. The thousand letters of this family that have
                come to light were written from 1424 to 1506, and were published at intervals
                between 1787 and 1875. They take us at once into the family life, showing us the
                boy's horseback journey to Eton with servant and bandbox, his attempts at Latin
                verse, and his very boyish appeal to an elder brother, whom he addresses as "Right
                Reverend and Worshipful," for money, new clothes and a holiday. They also show the
                girl at home, knocked down and beaten black and blue because she is loath to marry
                the man her father has selected for his son-in-law. Except some slight sympathy for
                a dispossessed or murdered statesman, they evince little interest in public affairs,
                show little public spirit, no elevation of thought and feeling, and much activity in
                legal squabbles, with a surprising knowledge of law. Something of this last we have
                in the Englishman's respect for law, though the knowledge of the Pastons seems
                chiefly to have been used in order to gain or retain possession of land.
              On the whole, these letters give an exceedingly interesting, though not beautiful,
                picture  of family life before improvements in
                agriculture and manufactures, increase of commerce, prevalence of education and
                means of travel, both at home and abroad, had developed modern comfort, intelligence
                and refinement. It may be a question, however, whether the Pastons reflect the
                character of the times in which they flourished or show the persistence of certain
                family traits.
              All these people, so long gone, all who have left a record written with fingers
                that have long been dust, preach us sermons, however careless their words, however
                they may have thought only of themselves. They did not mean to write for us, but
                they can not escape the law written in bone and blood, as well as in Revelation, "No
                man liveth unto himself."
              Even if their letters are destroyed, they stamp their race with their vices or
                their virtues. The last of the Pastons, a selfish and dissolute Earl of Yarmouth,
                died in 1732.
              Here and there has escaped the hazards of time and chance and change a letter that
                bears news of the envied occupants of high places. For some hundreds of years near
                the throne  meant near the scaffold, and proud hearts
                bent themselves to humble petitions.
              When life was held by a thread which the tyrant's breath could break, it was as
                dear as it is now; perhaps dearer. That is most precious which may be gone in a
                moment. Of all the letters written by lordly men who laid their heads on the block,
                but one remains that shames the memory of the writer. Lady Jane Grey, girl though
                she was, walked bravely to her doom; the letter of her father-in-law, Duke of
                Northumberland, is the letter of an abject, cringing coward. Letters, as much as
                conduct, and more than spoken words, show character.
              Many of the diaries, autobiographies and letters, written in the seventeenth and
                eighteenth centuries, not published, as a general thing, until the nineteenth, are
                charming reading. One could scarcely spend a more delightful hour than with Lucy
                Hutchinson, or sweet and wise Dorothy Osborne. Pepys and Evelyn, Fanny Burney, Lady
                Mary Wortley Montague, Mary Granville Delany, Cowper, are as ready to amuse,
                entertain, teach, as if they reached us a warm, living hand of welcome. And Horace
                   Walpole is not so bad, spite of flippancy, cynicism
                ant worldliness. He liked Hannah More, and one must have a degree of goodness to
                like the good Hannah. He was a friend of America when the vulgar English mind had
                only scorn for the colonials; he was faithful to the interests of his wretch of a
                nephew, and he took pains with his letters, for which lovers of wit should be
                grateful. It is a shame, after enjoying the privileges of desk and fireside, to turn
                and look at the entertainer.
              No letters equal Charles Lamb's; but Lamb and his contemporaries, as well as all
                who went before them, not belonging to the Victorian Age, are not to be considered
                here.
            
          



          


          
            CATHARINE MERRILL AT THE AGE OF TWENTY-SEVEN
          


          
          

          

            JOHN FOSTER-1790-1843

            
              [This and the preceding essay belong to an incomplete series begun by Miss Merrill
                during the last year of her life.]
            
            
              II

              "A lumbering wagon laden with gold." It is in these words that Robert Hall
                describes his great fellow-laborer in the Baptist church--a church which, according
                to the view of other denominations, "was made up of extremes, one or two mountains
                and a good many molehills." John Foster was one of the mountains. He may be classed
                with the Victorians in right of the last six years of his life, and because the
                world was slow in making his acquaintance. It may be added now that the world is
                ready to hand him over to oblivion. Yet he should be remembered if only for his
                "Essay on Decision of Character."
              Nobody would select his letters or his diary as models. They are too unworldly, too
                impersonal, too solid, too intellectual, too finished 
                and formal, and too like the eighteenth century in style. They have no lightness of
                touch, no playfulness, no sparkle of any kind. But they are golden in originality of
                thought and illustration, in discrimination of character, in solid sense, in
                sincerity, in the highest wisdom, in an intense love of nature, and a passionate
                love and pity for mankind.
              John Foster was born in the parish of Halifax, in Yorkshire. His parents were old;
                they seem always to have been old, perhaps as the result of lives of extreme
                frugality and toil. They were grave, reserved and cold in manner, industrious and
                righteous, meditative and prayerful, feeling their obligations both to this world
                and the next. Yet the father seemed to see something beyond the common in his little
                son, and sometimes unbent so much as to put his hand on the head of the
                four-year-old boy and say, "This head will one day learn Greek." The child was
                taught implicit, unquestioning obedience, and very early to do his share of farm
                labor and weaving. He was lonely, dreamy and silent. Words, of which he did not hear
                many, had a strange fascination for him. He brooded 
                over their sense, and over their sound when he did not know their sense. The word
                "chalcedony" attracted him, the names of ancient heroes were music to his ears.
                "Night" brought up suggestions of horror, and the time of going to bed was an awful
                season of each day. The word "hermit" would, in a moment, transport him to a
                solitary hut, surrounded by trees and rocks and streams, with a garden of radishes
                and an aged man in the door.
              Among the few books in the house the liveliest seems to have been Young's "Night
                Thoughts." The boy lived the poem, often pondering over the formal lines. These
                influences gave him a sort of aloofness of manner and feeling which remained with
                him through life. His language, when he did talk, was that of a book--of Young or of
                some volume of sermons. The neighbors called him an old-fashioned boy. Later in his
                life it is said that none who knew him could avoid being impressed by "the
                extraordinary unworldliness which pervaded his character and imparted to it an
                indescribable dignity." Thus the solitariness of his childhood had its favorable
                side. By  a neighboring clergyman the boy was prepared
                for a small Baptist college, the immense advantages of the great English
                universities being meanly denied to dissenters. He became a preacher in the
                denomination in which he had been reared, and had pastorates in the small villages
                of Frome and Downend.
              He sometimes had but forty hearers to sermons that were full of noble thoughts. And
                of these forty some were so ignorant as to think their preacher spoke in riddles.
                After several years, on account of an affection of the throat, he confined himself
                to writing essays and critical reviews.
              He married a woman whom he dearly loved. He had five children, the oldest of whom,
                an only son, died at the age of fifteen. It is said that while he was dying the boy
                looked with amazement at his father's agonized face, and exclaimed, "Why, father, I
                didn't know you loved me so!" It is a pitiful story. I hope it is not true. But who
                is so blest, or, it may be, so cursed, as not to be torn by remorse when a beloved
                one goes away forever?
              In one of his letters he speaks of the pleasure  he
                has in his children's noisy play; in another, of the sweetness of returning to his
                home after a few days' absence.
              "I most entirely believe that no man on earth has a wife more fondly affectionate,
                more anxious to promote his happiness or more dependent for her own on his
                tenderness for her."
              He is cautious, however, and after speaking with confidence of his future
                happiness, he adds, "but I am old enough to be well aware how many people who are
                wiser than myself would laugh at the romantic cast of such a presumption, and shall
                therefore keep the notion to myself."
              Twenty-four years of married life only increased his affection and esteem. He
                ascribed to his wife's influence the mental improvement that he had made in these
                years, and declared with truth that she gave him the most of the happiness that had
                been his.
              His reserve continued to the end to be a sort of iron band about his life. After
                the death of his wife he wrote, "If conventional usages did not come obstinately in
                the way, my infinite preference would be that the last offices  should be performed at the midnight hour in perfect silence, and with no
                attendance besides the parties interested."
              When the last hour came to him it found him alone. If there was a death struggle
                none witnessed it. On the night before he had positively forbidden entrance to his
                room. About six o'clock in the morning a kind old servant entered on tip-toe. He was
                dead. "His arms were gently extended and his countenance was as tranquil as that of
                a person in a peaceful sleep."
              As a critic, John Foster was as clear, definite and decided in his letters and
                diary as in the criticisms, written for publication. He did no slovenly work.
              Of Shakespeare he writes: "He had perceptions of every kind; he could think every
                way. His might be compared to that monster the prophet saw in his vision, which had
                eyes all over."
              Of Burke: "His sentences are pointed to the end-instinct with pungent sense to the
                last syllable. They are like a charioteer's whip; which not only has a long and
                effective lash,  but cracks and inflicts a still
                smarter sensation at the end. They are like some serpents of which I have heard it
                vulgarly said that their life is fiercest in the tail."
              Of Coleridge: "He is the poet that will overstep all his contemporaries. * * * He
                is a marvelously original and subtle thinker. * * * It is wonderful in looking back
                over a few hours of his conversation to think what a quantity of original
                speculation he had uttered in language incomparably rich in ornament and new
                combinations."
              One of Foster's friends says of him that without apparent consciousness he was
                often on the edge of wit. He gets over the edge; though his wit is always of a grave
                kind. He once called the world an untamed and untamable animal. "But you are a part
                of it," retorted a gentleman. "Yes, sir, a hair upon the tail."
              The piety of Alexander, Emperor of Russia, was often spoken of in English public
                meetings with approval and admiration as if there were peculiar merit in the
                acknowledgment of his Maker by so great a model. "He must be a very good man," said
                one of these ardent  admirers to Foster. "Yes, sir,"
                was the reply, "a very good man, very devout; no doubt he said grace before he
                swallowed Poland."
              The following sentences approach wit in their condensation of good sense and their
                epigrammatic form:
              "Many an enamored pair have courted in poetry and after marriage lived in
                prose."
              "Her mind is a wardrobe, in which hangs nothing but grudges."
              "Her passions are like a little whirlwind--round and round, moving, active, but
                still here."
              "He is vigilant without suspicion and discriminating without fastidiousness."
              "His diction is not the clothing of his sentiments--it is the skin, and to alter
                the language would be to flay the sentiments alive."
              "He is neither vulgar nor genteel, nor any compound of these two kinds of
                vulgarity. His manners are a part of his soul, like the style of a writer of genius.
                He makes you think neither of clown nor of gentleman-but of man."
              "The person who gives us most the idea of ample being interests us most."

              

              "If a Frenchman and an Englishman were shown a dozen persons and under the
                necessity of choosing one of them to talk an hour with, the Frenchman would choose
                the first in the row and the Englishman the last."
              "Some people's religion is for want of sense; if they had sense they would have no
                religion, for their religion is no more than prejudice--superstition."
              "Spent part of an hour in the company of a handsome young woman and a friendly
                little cat; I could more easily make society of the cat."
              "Why should a man read an inferior book at the very time he might read one of the
                highest order?"
              "One of the strongest characteristics of genius is the power of lighting its own
                fire."
              "You have not sufficiently a grand commanding principle of seriousness to persuade
                and harmonize the total of your habits."
              Certain ladies he designates as "mere ambulating blocks for millinery."
              Of a very bad child he says: "I never saw so much essence of devil in so small a
                vessel."

              


              Foster took a warm interest in political affairs, and was always on the side of
                progress. In 1830 he writes: "Very great changes have been done in recent times.
                America set free; Greece, humiliation of the Mohammedan empire; the Catholic
                emancipation, and a great part of the world put in a state of mobility; ominous, all
                may hope, of prodigious and accelerated changes."
              Foster's studies of individual character are remarkable for grasp of comprehension
                and sharpness of discrimination. I never saw a more careful and complete delineation
                of a child than his of a little girl three years old.
              Exceedingly interested as he was in the things of this world, his thoughts loved
                better to dwell on the other and higher life. He strove to fit himself and he strove
                to fit others for that ideal, heavenly good.
              Archbishop Whately says: "There are some minds which seem so thoroughly to fit into
                this life and to be so satisfied with it that we almost are tempted to doubt whether
                they have any of the elements of a future existence. There are others again who make
                themselves so little at  home in this world that the
                wonder is how they came here; they seem to be the natural nurslings of immortality,
                and their soul continually flaps its wings against its earthly prison-house, like a
                caged eagle. So it was with John Foster. In thinking of him transplanted as he now
                is to a more congenial world, our first involuntary reflection is that he is free;
                that his spirit has put off its burden, and is escaped from what to him was little
                better than a dungeon." As has been shown, this is not quite fair. John Foster was
                extraordinarily interested in this world, in its natural scenery, in its animals,
                and especially in the character and destiny on the earth of humanity, and lie loved
                his friends with a very great love. He was a great soul.
              To read his thoughts, to understand his sentiments, to appreciate his efforts to
                better humanity, simply to come near him, as near as his peculiar nature allows, is
                elevating. It is well to touch the hem of the garment of those who are even
                imperfectly great and good.
            
          
          

          

            THE CHILD IN ENGLISH LITERATURE

            On a certain occasion when pride and ambition seemed to be getting the better of the
              poor men who followed Jesus, He called to Him, and took in His arms a little child and
              said unto them, "Whosoever shall humble himself as this little child, the same is
              greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven." Of this blessed little one, who on this one
              occasion served as a living text, we know nothing more. He may have lived on to weary
              age; he may have ended his life's little story in the one scene; he still forever
              looks out from the printed page, a type and vision of the meekness that shall inherit
              the earth in the coming golden age.
            It is a characteristic of the Bible that children are often recorded as actors in the
              great world-drama. The wild outcast of the desert, with his forlorn mother; the gentle
              son of the haughty Sara, the quarrelsome twins, the favored boy with his garment of
              many colors--the youngest of the twelve brothers and the  darling whose loss would bring the father's gray hairs with sorrow to the grave;
              the fair infant weeping in his cradle of bulrushes, the little prophet, whose lonely
              yet happy mother yearly made him a pretty coat and a loving visit; the faithful
              shepherd boy guarding his flock and singing to his harp under the stars, the
              prince--king by right of inheritance--hiding from his cruel grandmother; the resolute
              boys who, in a luxurious court, trained themselves to frugality and hardship; the
              high-spirited pupil of Gamaliel, the docile child whose fidelity to his training and
              to ancestral character throws a halo round the names of Lois and Eunice; the wondrous
              Boy who discoursed with the great scholars in the Temple, and amazed them;--all these
              and others have their story told in the Scriptures.
            The Divine Man calls repeated attention to the child, showing always that it should
              be the highest ambition of manhood to regain the innocence of childhood. That the
              charm of these stories was felt and acknowledged is proved by baptismal names
              descending with the generations. Yet men of genius received no suggestion  from their general acceptance, and did not busy their
              thoughts with the state of childhood.
            Chaucer, the most artless of poets, a lover of humanity and nature, has one child
              hero, St. Hugh of Lincoln, seven years old. He had learned from an elder boy in the
              school to sing "Alma Redemptoris Mater"--(O nursing mother of Jesus).
            
              
                "The swetnesse hath his herte perced so
                Of Cristes mooder, that to hire to preye
                He kan nat stynte of syngyng by the weye."
              
            
            Unfortunately, the way to school led through Jewry, and there little Hugh was
              murdered and his body thrown into a pit. He was the only child of his mother, and she
              was a widow.
            
              
                "This poure wydwe awalteth al that nygth
                After hir litel child, but he cam noght,"
              
            
             At last the boy is found, dead, but still singing,
            
              
                "And, for the worship of his mooder deere,
                Yet may I synge, O Alma, loude.and cleere."
              
            
            It is strange that with this fair beginning there should be no more stories of
              children for nearly, or quite, two hundred years. The little martyr's history is
              repeated with variations, and in an old tale a boy with a magic mantle  appears; but the mantle, not the boy, is the point of
              interest. Ballads were made, and were sung by high and low, but scarce a word of
              childhood is found in them, except in one, the "Babes in the Wood," which Addison
              describes in 1711 as "one of the darling songs of the common people." Educational
              books were written, especially rules and directions as to deportment. Aylmer, the king
              in an old poem, giving directions for the education of the prince, says:
            
              
                "Teach him to harp
                With his nayles sharp,
                Before me to carve,
                And of the cup serve."
              
            
            It is said indeed, that English children were, in the civilization of their manners,
              a hundred years in advance of the children on the continent. It may be, but I scarcely
              think it, from the rules that are given for their behavior. Erasmus tells "a chylde of
              noble bloude and singular hope not to rough his hair like a wild colt, nor lick
              dishes, for that is the property of cats." Other books have much more primitive
              directions. Children were things to be made and formed, not to be accepted in their
              native state. They were pinched and pulled,  beaten and
              knocked down; their very heads were broken. Lady Jane Grey, the possible, even
              probable, heir to a throne, in her childhood wrote, "I am so cruelly treated, I am so
              disordered, that sometimes I think myself in hell."
            The severities, showing as they do, a strong belief in natural depravity and in the
              power of discipline, could hardly help detracting from the romance of childhood. There
              were other influences affecting and casting a restraint upon literature of every kind;
              wars, heresies, persecutions, almost a disorganization of society; nowhere the peace
              and quiet loved by student and artist. And childhood was really an undiscovered
              region. This, in itself, is much; for even in the field of imagination men are like
              sheep, one following another. The stuff for fancy's play could but remain a while
              longer what it had been-gallant knights, beautiful ladies, lonely hermits, horrible
              hobgoblins, terrible dragons.
            At last a man came who had kept intact his child heart, as some wonder of a day might
              keep the dewy brightness of dawn through all  the
              changing hours. He saw the innocence and artlessness; the meekness and weakness and
              strength of childhood; its roguishness, its witchery, its preternatural acuteness, its
              fond flatteries, its wanton wiles, its ineffable charm. It is impossible that
              Shakespeare should have had other than a most affectionate heart; and in the nest at
              home, which he took pains to make soft and pleasant, were three little ones; and one
              was like her father in wit. The only son died at the sweet, bright age of eleven. This
              boy must have been often in the father's mind, as his magic called again to life the
              hapless boys of history or put into form the creations of his own brain. His children,
              not so numerous, are still as various as his men and women. He knows the child whose
              whole being seems love. Under the sunshine of kindness, such a one blooms and
              flourishes, an embodied joy; in the shadow of unkindness or of sorrow, his life
              withers away.
            The tender child may have a hero's courage. The little Macduff teases his unhappy
              mother, but, when the assassin appears, with his dying breath cries to her to run
              away. Shakespeare  does not despise the natural boy. The
              Roman Martius who races after a butterfly and tears it to pieces, would rather see
              swords and hear drums than look upon a school master. Another little Roman, Lucius, is
              the brave, faithful, patient attendant of the sad Brutus. The capacity a child has for
              suffering, the degree to which a little heart may be wrung with anguish, appears in
              the gentle and meek Prince Arthur.
            
              
                "I would that I were low laid in my grave.
                I am not worth this coil that's made for me.
                * * * * * * *
                O, this will make my mother die with grief."
              
            
            The bloody and thunderous tragedy of Richard III. is softened by the character and
              demeanor of the two little princes, Edward and York. "So wise, so young," they passed
              on to their doom.
            Shakespeare has some belief in inherited character. The two stolen sons of Cymbeline
              grew up in the savage wilderness yet were "as gentle as zephyrs blowing below the
              violet."
            So Perdita, brought up in a shepherd's hut, shows a right royal spirit when, after
              being  insulted and threatened by the mighty King of
              Bohemia, she exclaims:
            
              "I was not much afeard."
            
            The last and daintiest touches of the magician's genius were given to Miranda.
              Wordsworth's poem 
                "Three years she grew in sun and shower,"
               seems Shakepeare's own conception of this maiden of fifteen.
            
              
                "She shall be sportive as the fawn
                That wild with glee across the lawn
                Or up the mountain springs;
                And hers shall be the breathing balm,
                And hers the silence and the calm
                Of mute insensate things.
                The floating clouds their state shall lend
                To her; for her the willow bend;
                Nor shall she fail to see
                Even in the motions of the storm
                Grace that shall mold the maiden's form
                By silent sympathy."
              
            
            We may almost say that as children came into English literature with Shakespeare,
              they went out of it with Shakespeare. His mantle fell upon none. Yet Milton wore a
              gracious singing robe of his own, and would fain have written something to inspire
              young Englishmen to nobler living, but he had fallen on evil times.

            

            The mystical genius of Henry Vaughan, the Welshman, recognizes the mystical nature of
              childhood in more than one poem, and clearly in that which is the forerunner of
              Wordsworth's greatest:
            
              
                "Happy those early days, when I
                Shined in my angel infancy!
                 * * *
                "When on some gilded cloud, or flower,
                My gazing soul would dwell an hour.
                 * * *
                "Oh, how I long to travel back,
                And tread again that ancient track!
                That I might once more reach that plain,
                Where first I left my glorious train.
                 * * *
                "Some men a forward motion love,
                But I by backward steps would move;
                And when this dust falls to the urn,
                In that state I came, return."
              
            
            These lovely lines fitly wind up the Elizabethan period; indeed, they reach out, a
              point of light into the darkness that had now set in.
            Again, nearly two hundred years went by before the child became an important figure
              in any production. Here and there, on historic pages, gleams for a moment some sweet
              young face, as of the Princess Elizabeth, who died broken-hearted after the execution
              of her father; or the poor little, abused Duke of Gloucester, heir to the English
              throne, beaten  and cuffed, and marched about and
              tyrannized over, until his little life faded away; or the blind daughter of the
              imprisoned and persecuted Bunyan. He writes of her, "Poor child, what sorrow art thou
              like to have for thy portion in this world--though I cannot now endure the wind should
              blow upon thee."
            Everywhere were children, on village greens, in country gardens, at the poor man's
              board, at the rich man's fireside, in schools, in fields, at work, at play, busy as
              bees, bright as butterflies, frolicsome as lambs--everywhere except in literature,
              always the mirror of the thought and feeling of its time. The children, too, had
              fallen on evil times--wild, witty, dazzling, but unwholesome times. Nature as a study
              was unknown; humanity as humanity, unrecognized. The poets who figure in "Johnson's
              Lives," did not allow little feet to join the stately march, or the riotous dance of
              their lords and ladies. The corrupt dramatists had no entrance to the fairy land of
              childhood. Pope's few lines about the child are petty--
            
              
                "Behold the child, by Nature's kindly law,
                Pleased with a rattle, tickled with a straw;

                

                Some livelier plaything gives his youth delight,
                A little louder, but as empty quite."
              
            
            The kind heart of Gray, later than Pope, is filled with pity by the view of boys at
              their games:

            
              
                "Alas! regardless of their doom,
                The little victims play."
              
            
            He then enumerates the future passions, and the miseries that lie in wait for the
              little victims. Compare with Pope and Gray, Wordsworth's tender address to Hartley
              Coleridge in which he, too, has forebodings.

            
              
                "0 blessed vision! Happy child!
                Thou art so exquisitely wild,
                I think of thee with many fears,
                For what may be thy lot in future years."
              
            
            Swift, the just, forceful writer of English prose, in ghastly irony commends to the
              starving Irish, as the most delicate and satisfying of roast meats, an infant of one
              or two years. Steele and Sterne each has a single sentence relating to child life that
              does honor to his heart. Addison and Locke write on education, but few others seem to
              think of children. Even books of deportment, so common in the period between Chaucer
              and Shakespeare, are rare.

            

            Things that have been come again; light began to dawn, and life to stir before the
              dawn. On the one-cent counter of a bookshop may now sometimes be found a little story
              in simple, beautiful English, with gaudy illustrations, from Newbury's publishing
              house. The tale is probably from Goldsmith's pen. It is a pity that one of the first
              stories of childhood should be so little known. One of the sweetest and most loving
              poems is Cowper's "0 that those lips had language." The poet lives over the first day
              of his childish sorrow, a sorrow that had never left him during the fifty years that
              had since passed. In his "Tirocinium" he gives a powerful contrasting picture of his
              bitter experience at school.
            Cowper had yet many years to live when, "Piping down the valleys wild, piping songs
              of pleasant glee," came the poet, William Blake.
            
              
                "On a cloud I saw a child,
                And he, laughing, said to me:--
                'Pipe a song about a lamb.'"
              
            
            And so the poet piped of lambs and fairies and flowers, and of the various things
              that make up the "Songs of Innocence."

            

            Maria Edgeworth is no mean writer; nor is Thomas Day, though his "Sanford and Merton"
              lives more as a type of the practical in education, than for its literary merit. I
              should be lacking in gratitude did I not name Joanna Baillie, one of the delights of
              my childhood; and there are others who deserve mention.
            The sun of the Eighteenth Century set in glory. How fair a day the red sky promised,
              not the most sanguine could foresee. Foremost in the radiant group that looked with
              the poet's eye of boundless love on that glowing eve, and on the rosy dawn of the new
              day, were the high-spirited Scott, and the high-thinking Wordsworth. Scott's love of
              children is shown in some of his poems, and in some of his novels, but nothing that he
              writes is so tender as his friendship with Marjorie Fleming. He wrapped her in his
              plaid as a shepherd his lamb, and gave himself up to her wiles and witcheries.
            She was a strong-hearted creature, looking into life and duty with an earnestness
              becoming the country-woman of Knox; giving herself to fun, frolic, and mischief with
              an abandon natural to the country-woman of Burns. Her little  life (she died before she was nine) had its own troubles, but her greatest
              plague, she writes when she is about six, is her multiplication; and the "most
              devilish thing is eight-times-eight, and seven-times-seven; it is what nature itself
              cannot endure." They used strong language in those days. Dr. John Brown describes her
              as she appeared at a Twelfth Night supper at Scott's. She came in a sedan chair. When
              the top was raised, there sat Marjorie in white, her eyes gleaming. Scott, bending
              over her in ecstacy, said, "Sit ye there, my dautie, till they all see you." When his
              company had looked, he lifted her up and marched to his seat with her on his stout
              shoulder. That night was never equalled, said they who knew Scott. Marjorie and he
              were the stars; Scott showing her off, and being often rebuked by her for his
              intentional blunders.
            Wordsworth sought out "fresh woods and pastures new." He devoted and dedicated
              himself to nature, humanity, man as man, of every degree, of every age and condition.
              As for children, he took up the story where Shakespeare had dropped it, and studied
              them as  perhaps even Shakespeare had not. People
              laughed at the idiot boy and Alice Fell. Let them laugh. Once they laughed at
              everything that came from Wordsworth's pen. Most human beings are half asleep when
              they travel the first stage of their journey, or they fall asleep soon, and forget
              their impressions; though now and then for a moment a wandering remembrance "from the
              dark and backward abysm of time" strikes a sudden new life into the soul. Wordsworth
              not only remembered his childhood; he kept his early self in his heart, a living and
              sacred thing. Of set purpose, he studied the processes and experiences of growth and
              development in himself and in his boyish companions, in his children and in the
              children of the cottagers about them. Ascribing to natural objects a high, if not
              supreme influence, he says:
            
              
                "The fairest of all rivers loved
                To blend his murmurs with my nurse's song,
                And, from his alder shades and rocky falls,
                And from his fords and shallows, sent a voice
                That flowed along my dreams. * * *
                 * * * * * *
                Made ceaseless music that composed my thoughts
                To more than infant softness."
              
            
            Of his mates, he says they were:

            

            
              
                "A race of real children; not too wise,
                Too learned, too good, but wanton, fresh,
                And bandied up and down by love and hate;
                 * * * * * * *
                Yet yielding not
                In happiness to the happiest on earth."
              
            
            In a little poem which represents nature as adopting a child, he shows how beauty,
              grace and stateliness are given by breeze and tree and faun and brook and murmuring
              sound. The mystic union of living things we find in the "Kitten and Falling Leaves."
              He studies the characteristics of his daughter, three years old. This happy creature,
              the little Catharine, that filled "the air with gladness and involuntary songs," died
              when she was four, and left in the house such a blank and stillness that even De
              Quincey could not bear it. The first night of his visit to Wordsworth, after her
              death, he spent in the churchyard lying beside her grave.
            As if she had been a princess or a famous beauty, Wordsworth says of the little
              daughter of a basket maker:
            
              
                "Oft I had heard of Lucy Gray;
                And when I cross'd the wild,
                I chanced to see at break of day
                The solitary child.
              
              
              
                "No mate, no comrade Lucy knew;
                She dwelt on a wide moor,--
                The sweetest thing that ever grew
                Beside a human door!"
              
            
            He goes on in simplest, tenderest way to tell her fate--lost on the moor. He lingers
              in talk with the little cottage girl on the river Wye.
            
              
                "Her eyes were fair, and very fair;
                Her beauty made me glad."
              
            
            How perfect the lines that everybody knows:
            
              
                "My heart leaps up when I behold
                A rainbow in the sky:
                So was it when my life began;
                So is it now I am a man;
                So be it when I shall grow old,
                Or let me die!
              
            
            
              
                "The child is father of the man;
                And I could wish my days to be
                Bound each to each by natural piety."
              
            

            The poem that crowns Wordsworth with glory, the poem that crowns the Nineteenth
              Century--"Intimations of Immortality"--is most fitly a poem of childhood.
            
              
                "The rainbow comes and goes
                And lovely is the rose:
                The moon doth with delight
                Look round her when the heavens are bare;
                Waters on a starry night
                Are beautiful and fair;
                The sunshine is a glorious birth;
                But yet I know, where'er I go,
                That there hath passed away a glory from the earth."

                

                "Shades of the prison house begin to close
                Upon the growing boy;"
              
            
            Gratitude and joy for obstinate questions, for high instincts and for the sympathy
              the human heart has with nature:
            
              
                "O joy that in our embers
                Is something that doth live,
                That nature yet remembers
                What was so fugitive!"
              
            

            These, regret, inquiry, gratitude and joy, form the thread of which the golden web of
              this poem is woven. All of Wordsworth's great powers meet here,-felicity of phrase,
              the artist's creative ability, the rapture of mysticism, the ecstasy of adoration. He
              soared so high that his eagle eye cowered, and in mid flight he sank to earth. It was
              only after two years that he rose again, into that rarer air striking the former note
              with,

            
              
                "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting:
                The soul that rises with us, our life's star,
                Hath had elsewhere its setting,
                And cometh from afar;
                Not in entire forgetfulness,
                And not in utter nakedness,
                But trailing clouds of glory do we come
                From God, who is our home:
                Heaven lies about us in our infancy!"
              
            

            If there is anything in prose nearer perfection  than
              are parts of De Quincey's Autobiography, I do not know it. I give two or three
              sentences from his "Affliction of Childhood." He was six years old, and was alone in
              the room with his dead sister.
            "One large window was wide open through which the sun of midsummer at mid-day was
              showering down torrents of splendor. The sky was cloudless, the blue depths seemed the
              express types of infinity; and it was not possible for eye to behold or for heart to
              conceive any symbols more pathetic of life and the glory of life.
            "Whilst I stood a solemn wind began to blow -the saddest that ever ear heard. It was
              a wind that might have swept the fields of mortality for a thousand centuries. Many
              times since, upon summer days, when the sun is about the hottest, I have remarked the
              same wind arising and uttering the same hollow solemn memoriam."
            Coleridge knows and expresses the charm of helpless infancy. Southey recognizes it.
              Christopher North, in his stories, depicts with much sentiment children of Scottish
              martyrs.

            

            Charles Lamb in his gentle, pathetic, humorous, fantastic sentences, as different as
              possible from the gorgeous style of De Quincey, pays loving tribute to children. "The
              Prince of Chimney Sweepers"! How merry, how rollicking, how pathetic and tender it is!
              "I have a kindly yearning towards these dim specks--poor blots--innocent
              blacknesses."
            The best part of the essay is the story of the little creature who, tired with his
              tedious explorations, and lost among the intricacies of the lordly chambers of Arundel
              Castle, crept between the sheets of the Duke's bed, laid his black head upon the
              pillow "and slept like a young Howard." Lamb moralizes from Cymbeline:
            
              
                "Golden lads and girls all must,
                As chimney sweepers come to dust."
              
            
            It is a curious thing that the Poetry for Children, by Charles and Mary Lamb,
              published in 1809, went soon out of print, and was almost forgotten. Fifty years later
              not a copy could be found in England. In 1877 a copy discovered in Australia was sent
              over the seas and republished. At the same time two copies that  had been reprinted in 1821, in Boston, were found. The most of these
              little poems are simply rhymed lessons, yet many of them are real poetry.
            Byron and Shelley had no open sesame into the innocence and seclusion of childhood.
              Neither had Keats, but he was scarcely out of boyhood himself. Leigh Hunt and Hood
              have the password. Indeed, nearly every writer who has reached any degree of eminence,
              since the great men of the lake region and their circle of friends, with thousands who
              dwell in the low places of literature, serving their day and passing out with their
              day, have skirted about or explored within the fair gardens and the misleading
              labyrinths of childhood.
            Thackeray, Dickens, George Eliot, have made children an important and excellent part
              of their work, Thackeray bearing the palm. His Ethel and Clive, his little Henry
              Esmond and Beatrix, his Dennis Duval, his Georgie Osborn and Rawdon minor, are
              creatures equal to Shakespeare's children; and different from and more complete than
              the similar attempts of any other novelist. He loved all children. The  closing verse of "The White Squall" speaks a tender
              remembrance of his own:
            
              
                "I thought as day was breaking
                My little girls were waking,
                And smiling and making
                A prayer at home for me."
              
            
            Longfellow, Whittier, Hawthorne, Lowell, Tennyson, Barry Cornwall, Robert and
              Elizabeth Browning, Stevenson, Whitcomb Riley, have "airy tongues that syllable the
              names" of dainty and sweet childhood. Barry Cornwall and Mrs. Browning moved the
              forces of government in behalf of childhood, and the beautiful words of all are
              cherished in grateful hearts.
            There is no more pathos, no more tenderness, no more sweetness, in Browning, than in
              some others; not so much humor, but there is a sort of solemnity of sentiment that
              distinguishes him. That God does not judge of character or service as man judges, is
              with him a frequently recurring thought, even in the poems about children:
            
              
                "Morning, evening, noon and night,
                'Praise God!' sang Theocrite.
                Then to his poor trade he turned,
                Whereby the daily meal was earned."
              
            
            He was happy, yet he wanted to praise God in  a greater
              way as "the Pope at Rome praises God from Peter's dome." So the angel Gabriel took his
              place on his working bench, and Theocrite, first preparing himself by study and
              prayer, became the most devout of Popes, but God said: 
                "I miss my little human praise."
               So he went back to his trade and his simple song of praise.
            One day, walking alone in a wood, Browning thought what might be the influence of one
              who walked thus alone through life; and so formed in his brain the story of Pippa, the
              little silk-winder; not the story of her life, but of her one holiday. Before the goes
              out to enjoy her day, she repeats the New Year's hymn beginning, "All service ranks
              the same with God"; and after she comes back from her wanderings in the evening,
              having all unawares saved more than one soul, too tired to utter any prayer but "God
              bless me," she sinks upon her bed and falls asleep, murmuring the first lines of the
              morning hymn:
            
              
                "All service ranks the same with God,
                With God, whose puppets, best and worst,
                Are we: There is no last nor first."
              
            
            

            It is right and fair to represent the child as grappling with, and grasping great
              truths. With lifted brows, with wondering eager eyes, the new comer looks out upon the
              world, and up to the sky. It is all strange, miraculous, inexplicable; but it is home;
              it is his Father's house, and he is not afraid.

          
          
          

            THE GENERAL: A CHARACTER SKETCH

            About fifteen years ago, there appeared in one of the upland valleys of California a
              shaggy, yellow-haired, long-bearded, tall, spare personage from Tennessee, bearing the
              ornamental title of general. He came not so much for health as for the repose of a
              soul at odds with the world. On a steep declivity of the outlying mountain which forms
              the northern wall of the valley, he built two cabins, some little distance apart, one
              for his wife, who seldom honored the place with her presence, the other for himself.
              The loft of his cabin was his sleeping apartment; his bed, protruding through the wall
              in order that, while his body was safely under cover, the nobler part of him might be
              visited by the stars and fanned by the mountain breeze. In his downstairs room and
              around his always open door his comprehensive hospitality welcomed not only man but
              birds, squirrels, rabbits, weasels, mountain-rats, kangaroo-rats, coyotes, gophers,
              even skunks.

            

            Against the outer wall of the now deserted and ruinous cabin stands to this day a
              mountain-rat's high, dome-like citadel--also deserted, a sort of memorial of the
              little time when nature's social union was restored.
            The General, however, had no respect for the feelings of the young apple orchard in
              the midst of which he had fixed his dwelling. He tried to make the trees bloom and
              bear at the same time like oranges. He trained their branches down in order to root
              them like banyans. The sturdy apple trees suffered somewhat from the torture to which
              they were subjected, but they persisted in growing according to their own sweet
              nature.
            The General was courteous and ceremonious to an extreme verging on the pompous. On
              his lips the English language grew statelier than itself. He gave to things their most
              high-sounding names. The ramshackle buggy of the kind Doctor, who had no practice
              because nobody was ever ill, the General always spoke of as the Doctor's chariot.
            He was much given to oratory and was fond of theatrical displays.

            

            When the famous singer, Miss Yaw, was in Los Angeles he invited her to his place and
              hoisted her to a lofty ledge, where she good-naturedly sang her sweetest to an
              admiring and grateful group from the valley.
            With labor beyond belief he set up a liberty-pole one Fourth of July on an almost
              inaccessible height, where it could not possibly stand. He planted trees on this same
              height where they could not possibly live.
            But good and kindly deeds as well as brave words and eccentric acts are cherished in
              the hearts of the neighbors who lived hundreds of feet below his lonely cabin. With
              incredible toil he once dragged trees up from the ravine behind the first mountain
              ridge and down to the lowest part of the valley two miles away, 'and planted them to
              serve for temporary shade before a cabin in which there was to be a wedding. Besides
              putting up an outside adornment of wreaths and arches, he covered the floor, ceiling
              and wall with roses. The lovely bride on whom the celestial rosy red was radiated
              "looked like an angel," wrote an English woman who was present. Perhaps nobody felt
              more  pleasure in the scene he had done so much to
              beautify than the kindly General.
            For several nights at one time he lay on the ground before a house in which two young
              girls were sleeping alone, their parents having been unexpectedly called away. He had
              come two long, steep, stony miles each evening to keep an unrecognized watch over
              beings too innocent even to feel fear.
            The General belongs to the past of the California valley. The wild creatures of the
              mountain have forgotten him. Only a fading memory lingers in the kindly homes of the
              valley. His mountain cabin is deserted. He is gone from there, no one knows whither.
              No message has come from him; no word of his welfare. Where his restless feet are
              wandering none know. But wherever he may be--in Honduras or Nicaragua, in Greece or
              Afghanistan--he must remain the same generous, chivalrous, pompous, unreasonable,
              ridiculous gentleman, whom the valley knew, and laughed at, and loved.
          

          

          

            MARTYRS TO FAITH


            One of the most self-indulgent, and, in consequence, one of the most hard and cruel
              of the English kings, suddenly finding himself at the door of death, felt the mists
              clear away from his vision and the scales drop from his eyes. Looking back on his own
              path, he saw that unworthy thoughts and frivolous talk--the "evil communications" that
              corrupt good manners--had taken the pith out of him, had unmanned him and made him
              what he was.
            Looking forward on what he supposed would be the path of his little son, he advised
              that none but good and wise men should sit at meals with the young prince; that the
              entertainment should be the reading aloud of noble stories; and that communication at
              all times in the youth's presence should be of virtue, honor, knowledge, wisdom, deeds
              of worship and renown. On this principle was begun the training of that remarkable
              boy, who was smothered in London Tower by his treacherous uncle, Richard Third.
            It is a good principle, and not only for the training of children. It is well for men
              and women to read noble stories and to talk of deeds of worship and renown.
            Precept is good, but the living example is better. Industry and intelligence are
              admirable. Courage is noble. Patience is saintlike. Steadfastness, fortitude, faith,
              are sublime. We may acknowledge all this, yet go into the world and fail in courage,
              patience, fortitude, faith,--every virtue. But it is scarcely possible that an
              acquaintance with the greatly good, an intimate knowledge of their unpretending
              heroism, a sympathy with their unselfish sorrows and their lofty joys, will not refine
              and elevate our lives.

            

            Far away from us,-remote in space, remote  in time,
              widely separated, too, from each other in habits, customs and language, were the three
              peoples whose melancholy but inspiring story I shall try to tell.
            It was midwinter in the Christian world in the beginning of the thirteenth century.
              The time was disorganized, confused, distressed, im poverished. The Crusades had done
              much evil, and apparently no good. The mighty Catholic church, already venerable,
              seemingly eternal, for it stood and grew and strengthened while kingdoms rose, lived
              their little term and fell,--the mighty Catholic church, as yet undivided (the
              seamless garment of Christ it called itself), was at the summit of its power. It was a
              well constructed government, an organized, orderly state, with vast wealth at its
              command, with every means to enforce its power, claiming to be infallible in doctrine,
              immaculate in purity, divine in wisdom.
            In the papal chair sat the greatest of the popes, a young man not yet forty; a
              sincere, severe, lofty-souled man, named Innocent by the cardinals who elected him
              because of his blameless life. With the cold clear eye and  steady hand of one who knows no personal bias, as far from human sympathy
              as only a priest or an angel may be, Innocent III. defended the weak, punished the
              wicked, excommunicated kings, laid kingdoms under interdict; and, above all,
              suppressed free thought. Like a blighting frost his breath fell on the tender leaves
              of a too early spring. It was as if they had never been.
            This greatest, wisest, purest of popes, this Innocent in name and life, instituted
              the first and worst persecution in the history of the Christian church. So unfit is
              the best of men for divine power. The latest, hardest lesson the world has learned is
              tolerance of opinion. Men read the Bible, such men as could read, hundreds of years,
              without seeing that if the Holy Book teaches anything, it teaches charity. In general,
              toleration was, and so remained until the seventeenth century, as much an undiscovered
              thing as America before Columbus sailed westward.
            Innocent proudly felt himself the vicegerent of God; and proudly asserted that the
              seamless garment should not be rent while his hands 
              held it. It was not. He lacerated and mutilated the body, but he kept the garment
              whole.
            Auricular confession had before this time been voluntary. Innocent's long head saw in
              it a means for strengthening and tightening ecclesiastical power. He therefore made it
              an obligation, thus binding, by finest and strongest threads, not states, nor
              dioceses, nor parishes, but every individual soul throughout Christendom, to the
              church. From that day to this the Confessional has been, while the most silent, the
              most secret, at the same time the strongest of churchly ties; invisible, impalpable
              but omnipotent.
            A spirit of inquiry, however, was astir. Not even the Confessional could suppress it.
              Too often the lives of priests were in flagrant violation of the principles they
              preached. Everywhere the wealth of the church, its pomp and pride, were in striking
              contrast with the poverty and humility of the first apostles.
            The new thought and life found first and fullest expression in the lovely lands which
              lie on the shores of the Mediterranean between the Pyrenees and the Rhone; where the
              old Roman  civilization, with its bridges and its roads,
              its laws and its order, lingered longest; where the elements of feudalism were most
              mild and bright; where the commercial and intellectual power of the Jew, the elegant
              and artistic refinement of the Moor, were acknowledged and honored.
            To the harmonious blending of these various influences was due a spirit of enterprise
              that developed commerce and manufactures, an industry that made the most of fertile
              plain and hill; a chivalry less harsh, perhaps less noble, than the chivalry of the
              North; a liberty that went hand in hand with loyalty, a tolerance that allowed every
              shade of belief and almost every degree of disbelief. Men of learning translated the
              Holy Scriptures into the vernacular, and scattered them abroad. The people, the most
              intelligent in the Christian world, read the translation and, in consequence, denied
              the supremacy of the pope, and the right of priests to intrude between the soul and
              its God.
            In denial, in protesting against the Church of Rome, the people were one; but in the
              doctrines they accepted there was almost every  variety,
              and in mode of life everything from asceticism to sensuality. They were a lively
              people, a people of poets and musicians-the first poets of modern times. They danced
              and sang and laughed. Their cities were alive with business; their valleys and slopes
              were green with olives and vines. A fertile soil and a balmy air encouraged and
              rewarded labor. And labor itself was enlivened by mirth and song. Lords and princes,
              like peasants and citizens, were merry and musical and independent. Youth feels itself
              immortal. Languedoc was young. It felt its life in every limb. It laughed audaciously
              in the face of the surly preacher. In vain, priests, at least such as did not dance
              and sing with the multitude, exhorted and wept, entreated and threatened and cursed.
              They were only laughed at for their pains.
            Suddenly, the gay, bright, musical world grew dark and still. Men and women
              disappeared and were seen no more. Whispers of imprisonment and of torture fired the
              blood of the high-spirited Gothic Romans, for such, in origin, were these inhabitants
              of southern France--not Frenchmen in language or customs.  They took up arms against the See of Rome.
            The Pope proclaimed a new Crusade, declaring that he who died in France at war with
              the heretic would as certainly secure a place in Paradise as he who died in Palestine
              at war with the infidel. It is a mystery that wicked men should want to go to Heaven,
              in whose pure atmosphere they could not feel at home. But the wicked men of that day
              were fully convinced that there was a bad place yawning to receive them; that there
              they would burn forever and forever unless some great good deed of their own, or of
              another bought by themselves, would open to them the gates guarded by Saint Peter.
              Moreover, the Pope promised to the Crusaders the lands and castles and goods and
              moneys of the heretics.
            Add to these inducements the fact that human nature is narrow, that it loves to
              persecute, and we have a strong union of motive in the new Crusade; hate of an
              opponent, love of wealth, fear of hell, the promise of Heaven, a promise that did not
              require weary journeys over seas and deserts. Southern France lay at  their very doors. From every quarter of Christendom men
              thronged to the banners of the church. A hundred thousand and more ruffians prepared
              to carry out the papal decree.
            The Albigenses, called from Albi, the city in which they, as heretics, first or most
              numerously appeared, manfully stood their ground and their princes stood by them. Jane
              Plantagenet, the wife of Count Raymond of Toulouse, a woman who possessed the best
              qualities of the great Plantagenet family, hastened to Normandy to beg aid of her
              brother Richard. The lion-hearted was just dead. No help nor hope was to be had in
              Normandy. Weary and heartsick, the Lady Jane lay down and died. She was buried beside
              her brother.
            This was the beginning of woes to Count Raymond. He who fought against Rome beat his
              head against a wall. Impoverished, humiliated and discouraged, Raymond lived to see
              fair daylight go out from the sunny valleys of the South.
            The Albigensian war was the first great religious war between Christians who equally
              professed to accept Christ as the Son of God and  the
              Saviour of the world. And it was the most atrocious. Fire and water were called to the
              aid of the sword, and the sword was a butcher's axe. The persecutors were intensely
              religious. More than once bishops and legates stood chanting, "Come, Holy Spirit,"
              while a tumultuous massacre proceeded, offering to the God whose name is love,
              bloodier sacrifices than had ever been laid on heathen altars.
            During the progress of the war, the Catholics of the country had united with the
              Albigensians to save the land from devastation, so that for awhile it was as much a
              patriotic as a religious war. After the successful storming of the city of Beziers,
              the Catholic commander said to the Abbot Arnold: "We are ready for the massacre, but
              how shall we know Christian and heretic apart?" The question perplexed the Abbot.
              There was no time for the summoning of witnesses, no time for trial; the soldiers of
              the church were straining like bloodhounds in the leash. He cut the knot. "Slay them
              all," he said; "God will know His own!" So all were slain, twenty thousand soldiers
              and citizens, Catholics and heretics.

            

            The Lady Geralda, whose virtues troubadours sang, long and stoutly maintained the
              defence of the town of Lavaur. At last she surrendered. Refusing to be converted on
              the spot, she was thrown into a well. The whole garrison of Mountlaur was hanged. But
              one eye was left in a company of a hundred soldiers in Iram; that, with mock mercy,
              the captain permitted to be saved in order that its owner might direct the march of
              his blind band. The Viscount of Beziers, a nephew of Count Raymond, a gallant youth,
              when he was offered pardon, nobly declared he would rather be flayed alive than desert
              the least of his subjects. The church had no place for the generous youth, and would
              allow him no place in the world. He died in a dungeon at the age of twenty-four.
            Of what use is it to repeat these things? Of what use to open the grave and expose
              the agonies of the dead long buried there? It is that heroism may be honored--a
              heroism no dangers could daunt, no terrors could appal, no anguish could subdue.
            The Albigensian war was active and bitter more than forty years. It dragged along
              nearly  a century. But at last it came to an end. The
              Albigenses were wiped off the face of the earth; with them their refinement, their
              music, even their sweet language;-the language of love, not of war, though it was the
              tongue of a gallant people. The Troubadour who had lived through battle and siege,
              pestilence and famine, laid down his sword, took up again his guitar, and found refuge
              in the court of Aragon. But his fingers and his brain had lost their cunning; his
              heart was broken. So powerful and so deadly in its power is a bad government. England
              and France, had they known their own interests, would have reached out a helping hand
              to the persecuted; instead, they answered to the call of the persecutor. While putting
              shackles on free thought in the South, they riveted the chains that already bound them
              to a foregin power.

            

            No man knows whether Christian doctrine in its purity was preserved on Alpine heights
              from the time of the apostles, whether it was carried to the mountains by Albigensian
              fugitives, or scattered there by the missionaries of Peter  Waldus, the Lyonese merchant. Certain it is that at a very early date,
              before Luther, before Huss, before even Wyclif, Christianity in its pristine
              simplicity existed in these remote regions; that when the light was removed from Asia
              and was quenched at Rome it still burned on the tops of the mountains between Italy
              and France. It is a wild and dreary region. The hollow roar of falling waters never
              ceases. Every stream is a torrent and certain death to the traveler whose unwary foot
              slips on its edge. Avalanches come crashing down from sky-reaching heights. The
              houses, low, small, with stones on the roofs to keep the roofs from blowing away, look
              like ruins or heaps of stones, not like dwellings. All is poverty within, and, except
              in the few short weeks of summer, all is desolation without. If anywhere in the world
              men might live in peace, unenvied and undisturbed, that spot would seem to be in the
              Alpine regions of Piedmont. But no place is so poor, no spot so sacred that malice may
              not enter.
            The Waldenses, or Vaudois, as they are as often called, at an earlier date than is
              known read the Bible in their own tongue. Their 
              diligence in studying and their zeal in imparting the Holy Word knew no restrictions.
              They carried it hidden in bales of goods when they traveled as merchants, and sought
              opportunities to leave it in castle, palace and convent. Whittier makes the Vaudois
              teacher the subject of a short poem. He describes the Alpine merchant as selling to a
              lady silks and pearls, then declaring that he has a wonderful pearl he has not yet
              shown her. The lady has lightly turned away, but her attention is arrested and she
              says: 
                
                  "'Bring forth thy pearl of exceeding worth, thou traveler gray and old--
                  And name the price of thy precious gem, and my page shall count thy gold.'
                  The cloud went off from the pilgrim's brow, as a small and meagre book,
                  Unchased with gold or gem of cost, from his folding robe he took.
                  'Here. Lady fair, is the pearl of price,--may it prove as such to thee!
                  Nay, keep thy gold--I ask it not, for the word of God is free.'
                  The hoary traveler went his way, but the gift he left behind
                  Hath had its pure and perfect work on that high-born maiden's mind,
                  And she hath turned from the pride of sin to the lowliness of truth
                  And given her human heart to God in its beautiful hour of youth,
                  And she hath left the gray old halls where an evil faith had power,
                  The courtly knights of her father's train, and the maidens of her bower;

                  

                  And she hath gone to the Vaudois vales, by lordly feet untrod,
                  Where the poor and needy of earth are rich in the perfect love of God."
                
               And this is no fiction of the poet. Ladies of high degree did sometimes (often it
              could not be), lay aside silken robes and leave lordly halls that they might study the
              Word of God, and direct their lives by that Word.
            Obedience to civil law the Waldenses held to be a religious duty. When they could not
              pay taxes regularly on account of the disturbances of war, they set aside money to be
              ready for payment, although none but harsh and inconsiderate rulers would have
              required taxes from so poor a people. They were brave, responding with alacrity to
              every summons to join their sovereign's army. They were altogether good subjects. Yet,
              notwithstanding they were law-abiding and law-defending men, the history of the
              Waldenses during nearly three hundred years is the history of a peaceable and
              intelligent people, with stern, unswerving faith, now resisting and now enduring
              atrocious persecution.
            About the year 1400, on Christmas day, when  in all the
              great cathedrals of Christendom, cathedrals that are poems in stone, sacred and solemn
              poems to the glory of God-when in all these great and beautiful churches, choirs were
              singing, "Peace on earth, good will to men," the inhabitants of the little valley of
              Pragela, in Piedmont, were flying for their lives. Through snow and bitter winds they
              climbed to higher Alps, pursued by cruel, cursing soldiers. That night while
              Christendom resounded with the praises of the Babe of Bethlehem, and mothers in happy
              homes, looking in the innocent faces of their little ones, wondered not that the
              Saviour of the world took the form of an infant --that Christmas night, four score
              infants perished with the cold. When morning dawned, the babies and their mothers lay
              dead together on the bleak mountain. Many generations of shuddering parents told the
              story of this fearful night to their shuddering children; and the frozen infant lips
              that had formed no earthly words seemed to utter words of heavenly patience and
              faith.
            In the valley of the Soyse, the inhabitants, three thousand in number, everyone
              knowing  how to read and write, and nearly every child
              able to give a reason for his faith, were driven into caves and smothered by fires
              built in the entrances. The valley that had been filled with happy life, and had
              hummed and sung with industry, was made as silent as the grave. The mill and the
              cottages fell to ruin. The little gardens and fields, wrested with almost super-human
              toil from the cruel rock, went back to waste and desert. No human sound, nothing but
              the ceaseless babble of water broke the stillness. Not an inhabitant was left in the
              valley.
            During a fiercely fought battle, the women and the children kneeling on the rocks in
              the sight of both parties, lifted up their hands and voices and besought the aid of
              Heaven. The Lord's ear was not deaf, nor his arm shortened. He inspired the defenders
              of hearth and home and faith with a might and skill they never before had known. They
              sent their arrows with unerring aim; they hurled stupendous rocks crushing down
              terrible steeps. At last a fog, wrapping the hills in a deeper obscurity than even
              darkness, brought confusion and defeat on the intruders.

            

            In 1655 an edict of the Duke of Savoy commanded the inhabitants of all the valleys
              and plains and mountain slopes, except of five valleys, the names of which were given,
              to be converted to the Holy Catholic Church within three days. The valleys excepted
              were small, already crowded, and far up the Alps. Snow lay in all the passes; high
              waters covered the plains.
            It was midwinter, the season the persecutors generally chose for their cruel work,
              that what man might leave undone, nature, with a relentless hand, should
              accomplish.
            The Waldenses could not escape over the high waters and the ice to some friendly
              land. So they turned their courageous steps to the regions of eternal snow. They were
              followed by a force of fifteen thousand soldiers, many of them Irish Romanists who had
              taken part in the terrible massacre of 1641; that massacre of which Green says: "Tales
              of horror and outrage, such as maddened our own England when they reached us from
              Cawnpore, came day after day over the Irish Channel."
            The bestial and fiendish pursuers followed the flying Vaudois into caves and dens. No
              pen  may write, no voice may tell, the horrors they
              enacted. The mountain echoes were of mingled sighs, cries and curses. The mountain
              streams were red and choked with blood.
            To far Protestant shores the story was wafted. The heart of England was "moved more
              than with a trumpet."
            Milton spoke for his countrymen when he cried out in impassioned strains for
              vengeance:

            
              
                "Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered saints, whose bones
                Are scattered on the Alpine mountains cold;
                Even them who kept thy truth so pure of old,
                When all our fathers worshiped stocks and stones
                Forget not: In thy book, record their groans
                Who were thy sheep, and in their ancient fold
                Slain by the bloody Piemontese, that rolled
                Mother with infant down the rocks! Their moans
                The vales redoubled to the hills, and they
                To heaven. Their martyr'd blood and ashes sow
                O'er all the Italian fields, where still doth sway
                The triple tyrant; that from these may grow
                A hundredfold, who, having learnt thy way,
                Early may fly the Babylonian woe."
              
            

            Never was Oliver Cromwell greater than when his lion-heart kindled with pity for his
              poor brethren of the Alps. He wept. He appointed a day of humiliation and prayer. He
              sent money--two thousand pounds from his own purse, a larger sum collected from the
              churches. He refused to sign a treaty with  France until
              the French king had promised protection to the Vaudois. He directed his Latin
              secretary to write for help to all the Protestant states of Europe. He sent an
              ambassador to threaten with war the Duke of Savoy.
            This ambassador, Sir Samuel Morland, addressed the Duke in the bold spirit of the
              Lord Protector. Specifying some of the cruelties that had been committed, he broke off
              in the midst with, "What need I mention more? If all the tyrants of all times and ages
              were alive again, they would be shamed to think they had devised nothing but what
              might be esteemed mild and humane in comparison with these actions. Meantime, angels
              shudder, men are angered, heaven itself seems to be astonished with the cries of dying
              men, and the very earth to blush, being discolored with the blood of so many innocent
              persons. Do not Thou, 0 most high God, do not Thou take that vengeance which is due to
              such enormous crimes. Let thy blood, 0 Christ, wash away this slaughter!"
            The impassioned address was heard in silence, and the letters the ambassador
              delivered were received in submission. A stop was thus for a  time put to open persecution. But it is only within the present generation
              that the Vaudois have been allowed to send their children to school, and to have equal
              rights with the Catholic citizen.
            What fidelity is that which through centuries of persecution, on bleak and wind-swept
              rocks, cut off from the abode of helpful men, could still hold fast to the truth! The
              Truth--
            
              
                "Life of whate'er makes life worth living,
                Seed-grain of high emprize, immortal food,
                One heavenly thing, whereof earth hath the giving."
              
            
            It is impossible to say what the state and the Italian church have lost by refusing
              the services of the best members of both church and state. The world has gained an
              eternal example of steadfastness, of moderation and of purity, a richer legacy to
              humanity than all the gifts of conquerors, kings, or scholars.

            

            The last of the three peoples, whose story I am telling, lived in a remote Austrian
              province, lying on the northeastern slope of the Tyrol mountains. Salzburg is
              celebrated for its beauty. It is beautiful, with a wild airy grace,  peculiar to Alpine regions. Through the swift Salzach and
              other rushing mountain streams, it sends its tribute from glacier and from crystal
              lake to the Danube. Its rugged rocks give stingy foothold in cracks and crannies or on
              some lofty bit of plain, to forests of fir, to free, upspringing larches and to
              gigantic, solitary chestnuts; and they nourish the softest mosses, and the most
              lustrous flowers. In the valleys and on the acclivities are sweet clover, bluebells,
              crocuses, pansies that might be the nurslings of a city gardener; wild thyme, called
              by the peasants the Virgin Mary's flower, that gives out under the mountain climber's
              foot, refreshing, invigorating odors. Far up the heights is the forget-me-not, with
              almost impalpable petals of heaven's own blue, and the Alpine rose, a celestial red.
              Higher yet is the brown brunella, with its patient foot in the snow, and still higher
              is the edelweiss, which the chamois hunter proudly puts in his hat as a boast of the
              dangers he has dared.
            The province derives its name from its salt mines. It is a citadel of rock salt. Vast
              mines with white pavements, white walls and white 
              ceilings, with winding passages and high wide halls, sparkle in the light of lamps,
              burning forever where day never comes, and resound with hammer and chisel, or the
              hollow roar of blasting powder, where no noise of the outside world ever penetrates.
              Vast caverns perforate the hills with black chambers where never ray of sun or lamp,
              and never sound of life reaches. It is in one of these, according to the story, that
              fiery Barbarossa, locked in the chains of an enchanted sleep, awaited the long delayed
              restoration of German unity; waited till his red beard grew through the marble table
              that supported his head.
            As I said, Salzburg was formerly an ecclesiastical sovereignty. Its Archbishops, in
              peace, ranked with kings, and in war figured with generals.. The inhabitants were
              chiefly peasants, obedient and peaceable, but accustomed to wrest their subsistence
              from the cruel rock; to go down to awful depths, and up to dizzy heights; to stand
              face to face with death above and below; they were also thoughtful, self-reliant,
              fearless and true. Hardship, toil, struggle, alone may break the spirit of men, but
              when  they are united with danger, form the soul of man
              to freedom. The time has been when liberty found no shelter in all the world, but in
              the mountains of the Swiss, and behind the dikes of the Dutch.
            The mountaineers and the miners of Salzburg pondered on the teachings of the Bible
              given to them either by the Waldenses or by the disciples of Huss. They contrasted the
              lowliness of Jesus with the loftiness of the Archbishop and his priests. They sought
              and found a more excellent way than was sought or found by the lords and scholars of
              the empire, and this in spite of cord and stake and pool and dungeon.
            During three centuries their history bears a general resemblance to that of the
              Waldenses.
            After a tempest of persecution for one generation, or two or even three, they lived
              quietly, observing ecclesiastical forms; then zealous missionaries discovered heresy,
              and persecution recommenced. They were driven into exile, while their children were
              locked up in convents and brought up as nuns and monks.

            

            About the year 1700 the Archbishop flattered himself that the word of God was rooted
              out of the land. But as if carried by winds and by birds, the seed again grew in the
              remotest nooks, on apparently inaccessible heights; in stillness, without teacher or
              preacher, new communities built themselves up.
            They met at night in the depth of forests, and while sentinels stood on the
              outskirts, they dug from the earth their beloved Bibles and read and prayed. When the
              rocks walled them about and they were high above traitor and spy, they even indulged
              in a song.
            At length inquisitors discovered that the peasants neglected to make use of a
              greeting prescribed by the Pope, with the promise of two hundred absolutions from
              purgatory for every utterance on ordinary occasions, and two thousand years for its
              use on the death bed.
            Following up this clue as indicative of disbelief in purgatory, the inquisitors were
              satisfied that heresy was alive. The Archbishop in wrath declared, "I will clear the
              heretics out of my land, if I have nothing left but thorns and thistles."

            

            On the last day of October, 1731, he issued a proclamation to the purport that the
              heretics must leave the country within eight days, with the exception of property
              holders, who might have a respite of three months. Of course sales could be made only
              on the terms of the purchaser and many a land owner was forced to abandon house and
              ground, worth from five thousand to fifteen thousand dollars. Many a one left a
              hundred cattle standing in his stables.
            The early winter had already whitened the land, when the exiles, staff in hand, set
              out on their pilgrimage. They came down from the mountains, out from the valley, up
              from the mine, from under the very walls of the Archbishop's palace, thirty thousand
              in number. They themselves were amazed, and their princes were astounded. But the
              latter did not relent. With streaming eyes and, it is said, with groans and cries, the
              exiles looked their last on their beloved fatherland. But we may well believe that not
              one of the sad-hearted throng would have laid by his dusty shoes and taken up his
              residence in the palace of his persecutor.

            

            With slow and melancholy movement, the broken procession of pilgrims and wanderers,
              passed out of Austria, into reformed and modern Germany. At once the wonderful train
              became a triumphal procession. Bells sent forth peals of welcome. Cottagers stood by
              the roadside and showered blessings. Princes opened the doors of their palaces and
              offered their warmest seats, their softest beds. Preachers made the exiles the theme
              of pulpit discourse. Preachers and laymen alike were inspired to lead holier lives.
              "Where shall they go? What shall be done with them?" were questions promptly answered.
              George Second of England offered them homes in America. The English Society for
              Promoting Christian Knowledge, besides making large remittances to Germany, sent over,
              from 1733 to 1735, more than one hundred and fifty of the exiles to the English colony
              in Georgia, where they settled by themselves at Ebenezer, on the Savannah.
            Our country boasts noble blood, but the Puritans of New England, the Huguenots of the
              Carolinas and of New Jersey, the Quakers of 
              Pennsylvania, have not a more heroic history than have the Tyrolese of Georgia.
            All the kings and states of northern Europe offered homes, but no sovereign was so
              able to give a convenient and accessible asylum, as was the king of Prussia. Frederic
              William did not lose his opportunity. Harsh he might be, and was, to his skeptical and
              wayward children, but he was gentle and generous to those who suffered for a
              principle. Moreover, he was a practical man and saw in this sudden expulsion of the
              best peasants of Austria, a means of recuperating Lithuania--a Prussian province,
              which had of late years been ravaged and devastated by pestilence--three hundred
              thousand people having died of disease and famine, fifty-two towns and hundreds of
              thousands of acres having gone to waste. He sent commissioners, therefore, to look up
              Salzburgers, now wandering in the cold uplands of Bavaria, or still streaming out of
              the borders of Austria, and to invite them to homes in Lithuania. He directed that
              those who accepted his invitation should move in small bodies by different routes, and
              he needlessly exhorted all German  princes to be kind,
              and "not hinder them and me."
            In the cold, raw days of February, one of the first companies of the refugees, three
              hundred and thirty-one in number, moved towards the little town of Nordlingen in
              Bavaria, there to await the Prussian commissary. The townspeople, led by their two
              chief clergymen, went out to meet them, finding them, men, women and children, with
              their ox carts and baggage wagons, awaiting in the open fields, an invitation to the
              town. "Come in, ye blessed of the Lord, why stand ye without?" said one clergyman in
              words of Scripture, for no mere human words seemed fitting. The strangers followed
              into town, and into the church, where one of the clergymen addressed them from the
              text: "And everyone that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or
              mother, or wife or children, or lands for my name's sake shall receive a hundred fold,
              and shall inherit eternal life." The other from the verse: "Now the Lord hath said
              unto Abraham, 'Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy
              father's house, unto a land that I will show thee."

            

            What preaching that must have been! The word of Christ and the living example! Here
              were men that knew the pleasures of accumulation, the pride of possession, yet had
              forsaken houses and lands; who felt cold and hunger like any other, yet had given up
              fire and shelter and food; whose hearts loved like other human hearts, yet had turned
              away from friend and kindred.
            The blessed words from the pulpit comforted the pilgrims; and inspired the citizens,
              who stood lovingly around, with yet more eager desire to act the part of generous
              hosts.
            Wittenberg--the Wittenberg of Luther, of Shakespeare's Hamlet, of Marlowe, and of
              Goethe's Faust; the cradle of the Reformation, the nurse of the New Learning, the
              Mecca, the Rome and the Jerusalem of the Reformers of the sixteenth and the
              seventeenth centuries--the little old town of Wittenberg remembered its name and its
              fame when the strangers approached its gates. It was on a Saturday afternoon, the
              third of May. Through their narrow and crooked streets the Wittenbergers poured. They
              took their stand on the banks of the Elbe, 190  THE MAN
              SHAKESPEARE AND OTHER ESSAYS and there, in solemn expectation, they waited. Just
              before the sun set, at half past six, a cloud of dust arose from the south. Emerging
              from the cloud came a motley throng such as Goethe describes in the little idyl,
              Hermann and Dorothea--families and fragments of families, stretching from hill to
              hill, beyond the reach of the eye. All were on foot, except a few aged and sick, who
              were divided among eleven wagons laden also with household goods. When they had
              crossed the river, the strangers, their steps adapted to their weary children's feet,
              sang the trustful old German hymn, beginning, "All is well that our God does." When
              that was ended, still moving on, they struck up Luther's grand psalm, "A great
              stronghold our God is still."
            The university students, at least a thousand in number, falling into line, added
              their clear young voices. The lofty solemn strains rose and swelled through the
              listening streets as the exiles marched calmly on, and the townspeople wept tears of
              passionate pity.
            One day the pilgrims gave to rest in the town of sacred memories, then they again
              took  up the line of march. Seven hundred miles more
              brought them to the gates of Berlin, where royalty in the persons of the Prussian king
              and queen honored itself by meeting them and giving them welcome. Five hundred more
              long miles, and the wanderers found their new country. Cottages and fields, stock and
              implements of husbandry were all ready for them.
            Under the industrious hands of the new settlers the waste blossomed, flocks whitened
              the hillsides, towns grew, trade flourished. Lithuania became the garden spot of
              Prussia.
            As for Salzburg, the beautiful mountain land that had been robbed of her noble off-
              spring, her glory departed with her honest peasants. Her farms, her villages and her
              mines fell to ruin. The thorns and thistles the Archbishop preferred to heresy yielded
              so poor a revenue that the state was unable to resist the encroachments of Austria, of
              Bavaria and of Napoleon, and it sank, after eleven hundred years of magnificence as a
              principality, into a meager and impoverished dependence.
            Like their predecessors and contemporaries in the government of heretics, the
              Archbishops  sacrificed their country to narrow and
              bitter prejudice. Austria, we might think, had received a lesson she would remember.
              Contiguous to Salzburg, and on the west, is the wide and lovely valley of the
              Ziller--the Zillerthal, the pride of Tyrol, with its meadows and fields, its beautiful
              white villages, farm houses and mansions, and its churches with their slender spires,
              so in harmony with the mountain scenery. From this peaceful valley were driven out in
              1838, after eight years' persecution, between four hundred and five hundred of the
              handsome, happy peasantry, among the most intelligent and industrious of Austrian
              subjects. Two hundred of them were property holders. They carried with them into
              Prussia, which again offered shelter and home, not only their industrious and upright
              characters, but fifty thousand dollars, although they left as much more due them in
              their native valley.
            Whatever may be said of the devotion of the Catholic church to its principles, of the
              self-abnegation of associations and of individual members, and much may and ought to
              be said of these things; as a church it certainly has 
              to bear a sad and guilty burden of persecution.
            It is to this unstatesmanlike and unchristian persecution that we owe the story of
              the Albigenses, the Waldenses and the Salzburgers.
            While that lives, who shall doubt that the soul of man is akin to God?

          

          

          

            SOME THOUGHTS ABOUT SOCIETY


            It is sometimes said that he who can have the select society of all the centuries
              should be satisfied without any other. And it is true that a library has certain
              advantages over actual living association. Books cost little, comparatively. They can
              be handled without gloves, without finery. They require no etiquette, no
              conventionality. You may stand, you may walk, you may sit, you may recline carelessly
              and enjoy the company of the greatest. You may be candid to the utmost extent of
              candor without causing offense. You may be effusively delighted without exciting a
              suspicion of flattery.
            It is true that the best society and the most accessible may be found in a library.
              Here the solitary and the sorrowful, the disappointed and the erring, the betrayed and
              the deserted, the unthanked benefactor, the young who are sensitive to the limitations
              of poverty, the old who have neglected to repair their friendships, the  slow who have been left behind, the weary, the
              over-burdened, may find company, solace, stimulus. It is true, also, that the happy
              and the strong may find in the library increase of happiness and strength. But it is
              also true that the bright creations of genius cannot fill the place of living, warm
              human beings-even to the scholar, even to the poet who in his library weaves with his
              own the thoughts, the dreams, the fancies of his intellectual equals.
            That lonely man "whose soul was like a star and dwelt apart," in his age and poverty
              and blindness, in the desertion of friends and the contempt of foes, felt that the
              climax of his sorrow was the deprivation, or limitation, of intercourse with his kind.
              He says:
            
              
                >"Not to me returns
                Day or the sweet approach of even or morn,
                Or sight of vernal bloom, or summer's rose,
                Or flocks, or herds, or human face divine;
                * * * from the cheerful ways of men
                Cut off."
              
            
            Addison's old-fashioned hero, Sir Roger de Coverley, has little resemblance to Milton
              except in his love of humanity. Let me recall Addison's description of Sir Roger at
              the theatre:

            

            "As soon as the house was full and the candles lighted, my old friend stood up and
              looked about him with that pleasure which a mind seasoned with humanity naturally
              feels in itself at the sight of a multitude of people who seem pleased with one
              another and partake of the same common entertainment."
            Can we not see that honest old face beaming with benevolence?
            Human nature stands on a substratum of love in spite of the fret and fury of the
              untoward circumstance. The baby in his cradle quivers with delight, his fingers and
              his toes begin to curl and play at the sound of another baby's voice. What is prettier
              than a child of four or five years absorbed in contemplation of another child, lips
              apart, eyes unwinking, head fixed in its pose?
            All through the seven ages the passion for association with his kind reigns over the
              heart. Standing forlorn, like a sentinel left to guard the outpost of a vanished army,
              the aged man finds comfort in the tender presence of a little child. With gentle
              patience and equal pity they both await the broadening of their  twilight into day. A Timon seeks solitude and curses his kind only because
              his heart is lacerated by ingratitude. His hate is the reverse side of love. A
              medieval saint lives forty years in the desert because humanity's first and last
              passion is extinguished by a morbid selfishness that would save his own soul if all
              the world were lost.
            If a man love God he must love his brother also. On this love is founded
              civilization. The word civilization means the art of living together. When this useful
              art becomes a fine art, civilization passes into society. Apply the tests by which
              poetry, the first of the fine arts, is tried, and see how far the figure holds
              good.
            "Poetry is the language of perfect discretion," is Lowell's rather curious
              definition. "It is the breath and finer spirit of all knowledge," says Wordsworth. "It
              is the accent of high beauty and power," says the critic Arnold.
            In its substance and matter is the high seriousness which comes from absolute
              sincerity. It has a constant union of simplicity with greatness and something besides
              that words  cannot define, that analysis cannot detect,
              an interfusing, subduing, uplifting, charming power that only concrete examples may
              show. Ideally, society is the poetry of civilization, therefore it is, that society is
              the finest thing the mere world affords.
            "Evenings like these are worth a pilgrimage," said Lady Dunstan after a dinner with
              Diana of the Crossways. Amiel, the Swiss scholar, writes of an evening of social
              intercourse: "There was not a crease in the rose leaf. Let us hail as an echo from
              Heaven these brief moments of perfect harmony."
            It must be acknowledged that society does not often reach this perfect harmony. Why?
              Is so much required? Yes; much is required and must be interwoven with the nature, so
              interfused into the very blood as to become an integral part of the whole. Why is it
              that society so seldom attains to this perfect harmony? It is because of the
              imperfections of individuals who constitute society and of the homes on which it
              rests.
            American society, like the American state, is especially individual. Yet it presents
              a  singular anomaly, inasmuch as individualism, if it
              mean originality, is rare. The self preserved in its integrity throughout a full and
              natural development, in all its simplicity and yet with the complexity of high and
              fine cultivation, is the individualism that may and must exist in good society. To be
              oneself is to be brave. It requires thought to have convictions, and courage to hold
              them; to have and to hold are not always the same. For the latter, a certain strength
              of grasp is necessary, and not only distinctness and fixedness are essential, but a
              certain alertness, a tactful recognition of the variety in harmony.
            "Why dawn't thee letten Mrs. Grundy alone," says farmer Ashfield to his wife. "I do
              verily believe when thee goest to t'other world the vurst question thee'll ax '11 be
              if Mrs. Grundy's there."
            The question, "What will people say?" is the knell of courage, and the soul without
              courage has neither truth nor beauty.
            Good sense and common kindness are essentials of society. Of course every sensible
              person uses every opportunity for gaining  knowledge and
              for drawing wisdom from knowledge. "Knowledge comes, bit wisdom lingers." Good sense
              shuts out every sort of eccentricity--forwardness, backwardness, loud talk,
              self-consciousness, too much of a thing, too little of a thing. Good sense knows the
              Golden Mean. Good sense keeps clear of all affectation, all artificiality, all desire
              for effect. It preserves the individuality, originality, selfhood. A kind of
              politician known a half a century ago was called a "dough-face." Good sense forbids
              the dough-face in society. Each man must do his own thinking. None must be ashamed
              when there is no cause for shame, proud when there is no reason for pride. Therefore,
              society requires courage, but a courage that may be yoked with lamblike gentleness.
              Society is soft and smooth, smiling and graceful. It is so kindly that it is almost,
              not quite, caressing. Painstaking is still another element. Some one said to Charles
              James Fox, who was carving at a dinner table with his usual ease, grace and precision,
              "How does it come that you do so many things and such different things so well?"
            "It is because I am a very painstaking man,"  said Mr.
              Fox. "I put a book beside me when I first carved and studied the art."
            In all games of skill Fox excelled. In oratory none came near him, except Pitt and
              Burke. In conversation, he was above all. It might almost be said that no man excelled
              him in anything. Without something of this genius for taking pains, society as well as
              the individual, is unfinished and slovenly. "Self-love is not so vile a sin as
              self-neglecting," says the wisest of the uninspired. Individuality is to be preserved
              at every cost, and friendship is too noble and too sacred a thing to be played with.
              Yet one should not be too particular or too laborious. Among the thousand good things
              in Mrs. Browning's "Love Letters," I find the following: "Lord Bacon did a great deal
              of trifling besides the stuffing of the fowl, * * * and, in fact, all the great work
              done in the world is done just by the people who know how to trifle. * * * When a man
              makes a principle of never losing a moment, he is a lost man. Great men are eager to
              find an hour, not to avoid losing a moment."
            Some think there is a preservative in  exclusiveness.
              To me it is ridiculous, almost servile. Of course, one must choose one's friends and
              associate with the congenial. But to catch up our skirts, toss back our heads and turn
              a scornful face is unbecoming, to say the least. As I pass through Indianapolis, north
              and south, east and west, and see the hundreds and hundreds of pleasant homes, of
              pretty children, of fine-looking men and women, I often recall Shenstone's sigh when,
              looking over the map of England, he exclaimed, "How many pleasant people are here whom
              I shall never know."
            Continued growth or improvement is a law of the individual, consequently of society.
              Without growth there is no life. Living things grow, dead things decay. "The good die young," is often said; say, rather, "The young
              die good." It is not the early spring, but the late summer that disfigures the earth
              with thistles, nettles and other noxious weeds. Every one who has had long observation
              of life and literature knows how great may be the change, how complete, in the
              progress of years, may be the transformation of character as well as of appearance. A
              great artist made a pair of  contrasting
              paintings--"Innocence" and "Guilt"--an interval of twenty-five years having elapsed
              between the two. Unawares, he had painted two portraits of the same individual.
              Innocence had become guilt. Is that not enough to frighten one?
            "Death is not the worst thing," said a wise old lady to me when I had partially
              excused Victor Hugo's glorification of a lie. "Death is not the worst thing." No, it
              is not. Sometimes it is better to die than to live. After they have reached a certain
              maturity, men and women who have hitherto felt a measure of anxiety and responsibility
              for themselves too often fold their hands, and, with satisfied eyes, view and review
              the shortcomings of their neighbors. The arch enemy of humanity seizes the luckless
              moment and drops into the unguarded soil the seeds of envy, jealousy and all
              unrighteousness. When a woman finds herself calculating that such and such an
              attention will bring her or her children into notice, will be an advantage in some way
              to her or hers, it is time for her to beware. She is entering the cave of petrifaction
              whence there is no  egress to the free airs of heaven.
              It is not necessary to be a member of any special circle, but it is necessary to
              preserve one's integrity of soul.
            The very seat and center of all life is the heart, and it is the heart that is
              earliest neglected and most persistently left out of the reckoning. Now and then we
              see a man with fine powers, fine education, fine opportunities, fritter his precious
              life away in trivial, futile, passing interests. Without a clear perception of the
              distinction between right and wrong the man, it is true, may go sadly astray. The
              sense of right, with the courage to put it into word and conduct, is grit, is granite.
              No one is respectable without it, no one is disreputable with it. Still, it is not the
              moral sense I mean here, but the feeling heart.
            Hawthorne, in some respects the embodiment of the puritanism he abjures, is the great
              American teacher, his lessons gently flowing through parable and allegory, or cutting
              and burning in direct precept. The sum of his teaching is: "The heart-the heart.
              Purify that ifward sphere and the many shapes of evil 
              that haunt the outward, and that now seem almost our only realities, will turn to
              shadowy phantoms and vanish of their own accord; but if we go no deeper than the
              intellect, and strive with merely that feeble instrument to discern and rectify what
              is wrong, our whole accomplishment will be a dream."
            It is common to see the mind cultivated, the manners guarded, the health nursed, the
              dress cared for, the heart ignored. It is said of one of the most learned of women
              that she has absolutely no sense of natural ties-the holy ties that Shakespeare calls
              "too intrinse to unloose;" that she has none but a philosophic idea of the gentle and
              self-abnegating emotion of love. History records of the most intellectual family that
              ever lived, a family whose rise is ranked among the four great events of the century
              that invented printing and discovered America, that it was as lacking in heart as it
              was abounding in mind. A great gulf may lie between mind and heart. He whose aim in
              life is to build himself up widens and deepens this gulf. He rises, and the society
              that accepts him is pulled down by his weight.

            

            "There is nothing on earth," said Luther, "so sweet as the heart of a woman in which
              pity dwells." The tenderness that softens the fiery eye, that subdues the fervor of
              the voice, that withdraws out of sight and out of mind consideration for self--this
              compassion, to use the scriptural word, this fine sympathy it is that makes it
              possible to have such a social evening as Amiel describes. In the really great soul,
              simplicity and sincerity dwell by the side of lowliness of mind.
            We all may name examples of individuals, coming within our own observation, that form
              good society, and still more examples that we have met in our reading. Burke said of
              Mrs. Delany that she was the best bred woman in Europe. He might, perhaps, have left
              the word "bred" out and said only "best," she was so good. One smiles to read Mrs.
              Barbauld's notice of Joanna Baillie: "I saw her at church looking as innocent as if
              she never had written a line." Mrs. Edgeworth says of Scott: "He is one of the best
              bred men I ever saw, with all the exquisite politeness which is of no particular
              school or country, but which is of all  countries; the
              politeness which rises from good and quick sense and feeling, which seems to know by
              instinct the character of others. As I sat beside him I could not believe he was a
              stranger and forgot he was a great man.
            Two years ago, in California, I spent a week in the house of an old lady of ninety
              years She had seen many vicissitudes. Born in England, educated there in a boarding
              school, and spending there her early married life, she had later lived in Wisconsin on
              a great farm that required to be cleared, and had then drifted to the Pacific coast,
              where, lately, she ended her days. Every evening at eight o'clock she would take the
              hand of her devoted daughter, and, turning to each of us with a little curtsy and a
              kindly smile, would bid us good night and wish we might sleep well. She could not
              forget the manners of a refined society, even though the enfeebled memory compelled
              her to say, "Ellen, what are the names of my sons?"
            Among the advantages possessed by the young mothers of early days in Indianapolis was
              the acquaintance and friendship of one who had had so wide and varied an experience
              that at  forty or fifty she was regarded and always
              spoken of as old. "Old" Mrs. McDougall has lain in her grave many and many a year, but
              her stately figure, her gracious manners, her wise, witty, humorous, intelligent,
              altogether charming discourse, will never be forgotten by even the child who had the
              good fortune to know her. She chatted as genially with a laundress over methods of
              washing and starching and about early reminiscences as with the general or clergyman
              or the traveled lady who sought her company, no touch of condescension in the one
              case, no hint of self-consciousness in the other. She was interested in humanity at
              large and in little. She was a queenly woman with experience, advice and luminous
              anecdote at the service of her young neighbors. "It is pleasant to be grateful even to
              the dead," says Lowell. Between that day and this many a woman of whom any circle at
              any time might be proud has spent her sweet and modest life in Indianapolis, and made
              her home the home of the virtues and the graces.
            After all, it is the home next to personal character that is of import in our making
              and  maintaining a lofty and refined atmosphere. If, for
              the sake of society, the home is neglected or deserted, society is no longer a
              blessing, nor is it even a joy. The individual preserves his mental integrity by doing
              his own thinking and maintaining a sense of justice and candor. The home stands upon a
              foundation of peace, is built up by purity and love, is illumined by innocent gayety,
              is warmed by tender sympathy, is strengthened by wide intelligence. Society must have
              these same elements--peace, purity, love, gayety, sympathy, intelligence. Into the
              soul we cannot look. In the home we may not pry. One is secret, the other sacred. Of
              society, we have a right to demand that it be open to inspection, even in its
              motives.
            Simplicity, with the kind of greatness that everybody can have, the greatness that
              means a heart large, yet too small for anything that is base, is a mark for good
              society and a pillar for its support. "The longer I live," says Tennyson, "the more I
              value kindness and simplicity among the sons and daughters of men."

          


        


      
    

  
