
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Johnston, Annie F. (Annie Fellows), 1863-1931.. The Little Colonel: maid of honor. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1851
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
			
			
				THE LITTLE COLONEL: MAID OF HONOR 
			
			
			
				
					 Works of ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON
				

				

				
					The Little Colonel Series (Trade
							Mark, Reg. U. S. Pat. Of.) Each one vol., large 12mo, cloth,
						illustrated
				
				
					The Little Colonel Stories$1.50
						(Containing in one volume the three stories, "The Little Colonel," " The Giant
						Scissors," and " Two Little Knights of Kentucky.")
					
						The Little Colonel's House Party
						1.50
					
					
						The Little Colonel's Holidays
						1.50
					
					
						The Little Colonel's Hero
						1.50
					
					
						The Little Colonel at Boarding-School
						1.50
					
					
						The Little Colonel in Arizona
						1.50
					
					
						The Little Colonel's Christmas Vacation
						1.50
					
					
						The Little Colonel: Maid of Honor
						1.50
					
					
						The Little Colonel's Knight Comes Riding
						1.50
					
					
						The above 9 vols., boxed
						13.50
					
				
				
					Illustrated Holiday Editions Each one vol.,
						small quarto, cloth, illustrated, and printed in colour
				
				
					
						The Little Colonel
						$1.25
					
					
						The Giant Scissors
						1.25
					
					
						Two Little Knights of Kentucky
						1.25
					
					
						Big Brother
						1.25
					
				
				
					Cosy Corner Series Each one vol., thin 12mo,
						cloth, illustrated
				
				
					
						The Little Colonel
						$.50
					
					
						The Giant Scissors
						.50
					
					
						Two Little Knights of Kentucky
						.50
					
					
						Big Brother
						.50
					
					
						Ole Mammy's Torment
						.50
					
					
						The Story of Dago
						.50
					
					
						Cicely
						.50
					
					
						Aunt 'Liza's Hero
						.50
					
					
						The Quilt that Jack Built
						.50
					
					
						Flip's "Islands of Providence"
						.50
					
					
						Mildred's Inheritance
						.50
					
				
				
					
						Other Books
					
				
				
					
						Joel: A Boy of Galilee
						$1.50
					
					
						In the Desert of Waiting
						.50
					
					
						The Three Weavers
						.50
					
					
						Keeping Tryst
						.50
					
					
						The Legend of the Bleeding Heart
						.50
					
					
						Asa Holmes
						1.00
					
					
						Songs Ysame (Poems, with Albion Fellows Bacon)
						1.00
					
				
				
				
					 L. C. PAGE & COMPANY
						200 Summer Street
						Boston, Mass.
				
			

			


			

			
				
					
						
							"LLOYD . . .TOOK HER PLACE BESIDE THE HARP"
							
							(See page 68)
						

					
				
			
			

			
				
					 THE LITTLE COLONEL:
					 MAID OF HONOR
				




				 BY ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON AUTHOR
					OF "THE LITTLE COLONEL SERIES," "BIG BROTHER," "OLE MAMMY'S TORMENT," "JOEL: A
					BOY OF GALILEE," "ASA HOLMES," ETC. Illustrated by ETHELDRED B.
					BARRY


				
					 BOSTON
					
					L. C. PAGE & COMPANY PUBLISHERS
				
			


			




			

				Copyright, 1906 BY L. C. PAGE & COMPANY
					(INCORPORATED)
				
				Entered at Stationers' Hall, London
				
				All rights reserved


				First Impression, October, 1906 Third Impression, August, 1907









				
					COLONIAL PRESS Electrotyped and Printed by C. H. Simonds & Co.
						Boston, U.S.A.
				
			

			

			

				 CONTENTS
				

				

					
						CHAPTER
						 PAGE
					
					
						AT WARWICK HALL
						1
					
					
						AT WARE'S WIGWAM
						19
					
					
						IN BEAUTY'S QUEST
						31
					
					
						MARY'S "PROMISED LAND"
						43
					
					
						AT "THE LOCUSTS"
						58
					
					
						THE FOX AND THE STORK
						70
					
					
						THE COMING OF THE BRIDE
						88
					
					
						AT THE BEECHES
						113
					
					
						"SOMETHING BLUE"
						136
					
					
						"A COON HUNT"
						158
					
					
						THE FOUR-LEAVED CLOVER
						178
					
					
						THE WEDDING
						198
					
					
						DREAMS AND WARNINGS
						216
					
					
						A SECOND MAID OF HONOR
						241
					
					
						THE END OF THE HOUSE-PARTY
						258
					
					
						THE GOLDEN LEAF OF HONOR
						275
					

				
			
			
			

			
				LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
				

				
					
						PAGE
					
					
						
							"LLOYD ... TOOK HER PLACE BESIDE THE HARP"
						
						(See page 68)
						
							 Frontispiece
						
					
					
						"IT NEEDED NO SECOND GLANCE TO TELL HIM WHO SHE
								WAS"
						20
					
					
						"HE WAS LEANING FORWARD IN HIS CHAIR, TALKING TO
								JOYCE"
						66
					
					
						""A TALL, ATHLETIC FIGURE IN OUTING FLANNELS"
						84
					
					
						""A LONG-DRAWN '0-O-OH' GREETED THE BEAUTIFUL
								TABLEAU"
						132
					
					
						""'ALL YOU GIRLS STANDING WITH YOUR HANDS STUCK
								THROUGH THE BARS'"
						163
					
					
						""'THEY STEPPED IN AND ROWED OFF DOWN THE SHINING
								WATERWAY'"
						171
					
					
						""'ONE, TWO, THREE --THROW!'"
						253
					
				
			
			

		
		

			

				

				THE LITTLE COLONEL: MAID OF HONOR

				
				

					 CHAPTER I.
						AT WARWICK HALL

					IT was mid-afternoon by the old sun-dial that marked the hours in
						Warwick Hall garden; a sunny afternoon in May. The usual busy routine of school work was
						going on inside the great Hall, but no whisper of it disturbed the quiet of the sleepy
						old garden. At intervals the faint clang of the call-bell, signalling a change of
						classes, floated through the open windows, but no buzz of recitations reached the
						hedge-hidden path where Betty Lewis sat writing.
					The whole picturesque place seemed as still as the palace of the Sleeping Beauty. Even
						the peacocks on the terraced river-front stood motionless, their resplendent tails
						spread out in the sun; and  although the air was filled with
						the odor of wild plum blossoms, the breeze that bore it through the arbor where Betty
						sat, absorbed in her work, was so gentle that it scarcely stirred the vines around
						her.
					With her elbows resting on the rustic table in front of her, and one finger
						unconsciously twisting the lock of curly brown hair that strayed over her ear, she sat
						pushing her pencil rapidly across the pages of her note-book. At times she stopped to
						tap impatiently on the table, when the word she wanted failed to come. Then she would
						sit looking through half-closed eyes at the sun-dial, or let her dreamy gaze follow the
						lazy windings of the river, which, far below, took its slow way along between the
						willows.
					As editor-in-chief of The Spinster, there was good reason why she
						should be excused from recitations now and then, to spend an afternoon in this retreat.
						This year's souvenir volume bade fair to be the brightest and most creditable one ever
						issued by the school. The English professor not only openly said so, but was plainly so
						proud of Betty's ability that the lower classes regarded her with awe, and adored her
						from a distance, as a real live genius.


					

					Whether she was a genius or not, one thing is certain, she spent hours of patient,
						painstaking work to make her writing measure up to the standard she had set for it. It
						was work that she loved better than play, however, and to-day she sighed regretfully
						when the hunter's horn, blowing on the upper terrace, summoned the school to its outdoor
						sports.
					Instantly, in answer to the winding call, the whole place began to awaken. There was a
						tread of many feet on the great staircase, the outer doors burst open, and a stream of
						rollicking girls poured out into the May sunshine.
					Betty knew that in a few minutes the garden would be swarming with them as if a flock
						of chattering magpies had taken possession of it. With a preoccupied frown drawing her
						eyebrows together, she began gathering up her papers, preparatory to making her escape.
						She glanced down the long flight of marble steps leading to the river. There on the
						lowest terrace, a fringe of willow-trees trailed their sweeping branches in the water.
						Around the largest of these trees ran a circular bench. Seated on the far side of this,
						the huge trunk would shield her from view of the Hall, and she decided to go down there
						to finish.


					



					It would never do to stop now, when the verses were spinning themselves out so easily.
						None of the girls, except her four most intimate friends, would dare think of following
						her down there, and if she could slip away from that audacious quartette, she would be
						safe for the rest of the afternoon.
					Peering through a hole in the hedge, she stood waiting for them to pass. A section of
						the botany class came first, swinging their baskets, and bound for a wooded hillside
						where wild flowers grew in profusion. A group on their way to the golf links came next,
						then half a dozen tennis players, and the newly organized basket-ball team. A moment
						more, and the four she was waiting for tramped out abreast, arm in arm: Lloyd Sherman,
						Gay Melville, Allison and Kitty Walton. Gay carried a kodak, and, from the remarks which
						floated over the hedge, it was evident they were on their way to the orchard, to take a
						picture which would illustrate the nonsense rhyme Kitty was chanting at the top of her
						voice. They all repeated it after her in a singsong chorus, the four pairs of feet
						keeping time in a soldierly tread as they marched past the garden: 
						
							
								"Diddledy diddledy dumpty!
								Three old maids in a plum-tree!
								Half a crown to get them down,
								Diddledy diddledy dumpty!"
							

					Only in this instance Betty knew they were to be young maids instead of old ones, all
						in a row on the limb of a plum-tree in the orchard, their laughing faces thrust through
						the mass of snowy blossoms, as they waited to be photographed.
					"Diddledy diddledy dumpty"--the ridiculous refrain grew fainter and died away as the
						girls passed on to the orchard, and Betty, smiling in sympathy with their high spirits,
						ran down the stately marble steps to the seat under the willow. It was so cool and
						shadowy down there that at first it was a temptation just to sit and listen to the lap
						of the water against the shore, but the very length of the shadows warned her that the
						afternoon was passing, and after a few moments she fell to work again with conscientious
						energy.
					So deeply did she become absorbed in her task, she did not look up when some one came
						down the steps behind her. It was an adoring little freshman, who had caught the glimmer
						of her pink dress behind the tree. The special-delivery letter she carried was her
						excuse for following. She  had been in a flutter of delight
						when Madame Chartley put it in her hand, asking her to find Elizabeth Lewis and give it
						to her. But now that she stood in the charmed presence, actually watching a poem in the
						process of construction, she paused, overwhelmed by the feeling that she was rushing in
						"where angels feared to tread."
					Still, special-delivery letters are important things. Like time and tide they wait for
						no man. Somebody might be dead or dying. So summoning all her courage, she cleared her
						throat. Then she gave a bashful little cough. Betty looked up with an absent-minded
						stare. She had been so busy polishing a figure of speech to her satisfaction that she
						had forgotten where she was. For an instant the preoccupied little pucker between her
						eyebrows smote the timid freshman with dismay. She felt that she had gained her idol's
						everlasting displeasure by intruding at such a time. But the next instant Betty's face
						cleared, and the brown eyes smiled in the way that always made her friends wherever she
						went.
					"What is it, Dora?" she asked, kindly. Dora, who could only stammer an embarrassed
						reply, held out the letter. Then she stood with toes  turned
						in, and both hands fumbling nervously with her belt ribbon, while Betty broke the
						seal.
					"I-- I hope it isn't bad news," she managed to ay at last. "I-- I'd hate to bring you bad news."
					Betty looked up with a smile which brought Dora's heart into her throat. "Thank you,
						dear," she answered, cordially. Then, as her eye travelled farther down the page, she
						gave a cry of pleasure.
					"Oh, it is perfectly lovely news, Dora. It's the most beautiful surprise for Lloyd's
						birthday that ever was. She's not to know till to-morrow. It's too good a secret to keep
						to myself, so I'll share it with you in a minute if you'll swear not to tell till
						to-morrow."
					Scarcely believing that she heard aright, Dora dropped down on the grass, regardless of
						the fact that her roommate and two other girls were waiting on the upper terrace for her
						to join them. They were going to Mammy Easter's cabin to have their fortunes told.
						Feeling that this was the best fortune that had befallen her since her arrival at
						Warwick Hall, and sure that Mammy Easter could foretell no greater honor than she was
						already enjoying, she signalled wildly for them to go on without her.



					



					At first they did not understand her frantic gestures for them to go on, and stood
						beckoning, till she turned her back on them. Then they moved away reluctantly and in
						great disgust at her abandoning them. When a glance over her shoulder assured her that
						she was rid of them, she settled down with a blissful sigh. What greater honor could she
						have than to be chosen as the confidante of the most brilliant pupil ever enrolled at
						Warwick Hall? At least it was reported that that was the faculty's opinion of her.
						Dora's roommate, Cornie Dean, had chosen Lloyd Sherman as the shrine of her young
						affections, and it was from Cornie that Dora had learned the personal history of her
						literary idol. She knew that Lloyd Sherman's mother was Betty's godmother, and that the
						two girls lived together as sisters in a beautiful old home in Kentucky called "The
						Locusts." She had seen the photograph of the place hanging in Betty's room, and had
						heard scraps of information about the various house-parties that had frolicked under the
						hospitable rooftree of the fine old mansion. She knew that they had travelled abroad,
						and had had all sorts of delightful and unusual experiences. Now something else fine and
						unusual was about to happen, and Betty had offered to share 
						a secret with her. A little shiver of pleasure passed over her at the thought. This was
						so delightfully intimate and confidential, almost like taking one of those "little
						journeys to the homes of famous people."
					As Betty turned the page, Dora felt with another thrill that that was the hand which
						had written the poem on "Friendship," which all the girls had raved over. She herself
						knew it by heart, and she knew of at least six copies which, cut from the school
						magazine in which it had been published, were stuck in the frames of as many
						mirrors.
					And that was the hand that had written the junior class song and the play that the
						juniors gave on Valentine night. If reports were true that was also the hand which would
						write the valedictory next year, and which was now secretly at work upon a book which
						would some day place its owner in the ranks with George Eliot and Thackeray.
					While she still gazed in a sort of fascination at the daintily manicured pink-tipped
						fingers, Betty looked up with a radiant face. "Now I'll read it aloud," she said. "It
						will take several readings to make me realize that such a lovely time is actually  in store for us. It's from godmother," she explained.
					
						
							
								
									"DEAR ELIZABETH: --
									 As I cannot be sure just when this will reach Warwick Hall, I am sending the
										enclosed letter to Lloyd in your care. A little package for her birthday has
										already gone on to her by express, but as this bit of news will give her more
										pleasure than any gift, I want her to receive it also on her birthday. I have
										just completed arrangements for a second house-party, a duplicate of the one she
										had six years ago, when she was eleven. I have bidden to it the same guests
										which came to the first one, you and Eugenia Forbes and Joyce Ware, but Eugenia
										will come as a bride this time. I have persuaded her to have her wedding here at
										Locust, among her only kindred, instead of in New York, where she and her father
										have no home ties. It will be a rose wedding, the last of June. The bridegroom's
										brother, Phil Tremont, is to be best man, and Lloyd maid of honor. Stuart's best
										friend, a young doctor from Boston, is to be one of the attendants, and Rob
										another. You and Joyce are to be bridesmaids, just as you would have been had
										the wedding been in New York.


									

									Eugenia writes that she bought the material in Paris for your gowns. I enclose
										a sample, pale pink chiffon. Like a rose-leaf, is it not? Dressed in this dainty
										color, you will certainly carry out my idea of a rose wedding. Now do not let
										the thoughts of all this gaiety interfere with your studies. That is all I can
										tell you now, but you may spend your spare time until school is out planning
										things to make this the happiest of house-parties, and we will try to carry out
										all the plans that are practicable.
									
										Your devoted godmother,
										"ELIZABETH S"EHERMAN."
									
								
							
						
					


					Betty spread the sample of chiffon out over her knee, and stroked it admiringly, before
						she slipped it back into the envelope with the letter. "The Princess is going to be so
						happy over this," she exclaimed. "I'm sure she'll enjoy this second house-party at
						seventeen a hundred times more than she did the first one at eleven, and yet nobody
						could have had more fun than we did at that time."
					Dora's eager little face was eloquent with interest. Betty could not have chosen a more
						attentive listener, and, inspired by her flattering attention, she went on to recall
						some of the good times they had had at Locust, and in answer to Dora's timid  questions explained why Lloyd was called The Little Colonel
						and the Princess Winsome and the Queen of Hearts and Hildegarde, and all the other
						titles her different friends had showered upon her.
					"She must have been born with a gold spoon in her mouth, to be so lucky," sighed Dora,
						presently. "Life has been all roses for her, and no thorns whatever."
					"No, indeed!" answered Betty, quickly. "She had a dreadful disappointment last year.
						She was taken sick during the Christmas vacation, and had to stay out of school all last
						term. It nearly broke her heart to drop behind her class, and she still grieves over it
						every day. The doctors forbade her taking extra work to catch up with it. Then so much
						is expected of an only child like her, who has had so many advantages, and it is no easy
						matter living up to all the expectations of a family like the old Colonel's."
					Betty's back was turned to the terraces, but Dora, who faced them, happened to look up
						just then. "There she comes now," she cried in alarm. "Hide the letter! Quick, or she'll
						see you!"
					Glancing over her shoulder, Betty saw, not only the four girls she had run away from,
						but four others, running down the terraces, taking the flight  of marble steps two at a time. Gay's shoe-strings were tripping her at every
						leap, and Lloyd's hair had shaken down around her shoulders in a shining mass in the
						wild race from the orchard.
					Lloyd reached the willow first. Dropping down on the bench, almost breathless, she
						began fanning herself with her hat.
					"Oh!" she gasped. "Tell me quick, Betty! What is the mattah? Cornie Dean said a
						messenger boy had just come out to the Hall on a bicycle with a special-delivery lettah
						from home. I was so suah something awful had happened I could hardly run, it frightened
						me so."
					"And we thought maybe something had happened at 'The Beeches,'" interrupted Allison,
						"and that mamma had written to you to break the news to us."
					"Why, nothing at all is the matter," answered Betty, calmly, darting a quick look at
						Dora to see if her face was betraying anything. "It was just a little note from
						godmother. She wanted me to attend to something for her."
					"But why should she send it by special delivery if it isn't impawtant?" asked Lloyd, in
						an aggrieved tone.

					"It is important," laughed Betty. " Very."


					


					"For goodness' sake, what is it, then?" demanded Lloyd. "Don't tease me by keeping me
						in suspense, Betty. You know that anything about mothah or The Locusts must concern me,
						too, and that I am just as much interested in the special lettah as you are. I should
						think it would be just as much my business as yoah's."
					"This does concern you," admitted Betty, "and I'm dying to tell you, but godmother
						doesn't want you to know until to-morrow."
					"To-morrow," echoed Lloyd, much puzzled. Then her face lighted up. "Oh, it's about my
						birthday present. Tell me what it is now, Betty," she wheedled. "I'd
						lots rathah know now than to wait. I could be enjoying the prospect of having whatevah
						it is all the rest of the day."
					Betty clapped her hands over her mouth, and rocked back and forth on the bench, her
						eyes shining mischievously.
					"Do go away," she begged. "Don't ask me! It's so
						lovely that I can hardly keep from telling you, and I'm afraid if you stay here I'll not
						have strength of character to resist."
					"Tell us, Betty," suggested Kitty. "Lloyd will hide her ears while
						you confide in us."
					"No, indeed!" laughed Betty. "The cat is half  out of the
						bag when a secret is once shared, and I know you couldn't keep from telling Lloyd more
						than an hour or two."
					Just then Lloyd, leaning forward, pounced upon something at Betty's feet. It was the
						sample of pink chiffon that had dropped from the envelope.
					"Sherlock Holmes the second! " she cried. "I've discovahed the secret. It has something
						to do with Eugenia's rose wedding, and mothah is going to give me my bridesmaid's dress
						as a birthday present. Own up now, Betty. Isn't that it?"
					Betty darted a startled look at Dora. "Well," she admitted, cautiously, "if it were a
						game of hunt the slipper, I'd say you were getting rather warm. That is not the present your mother mentioned, although it is a sample
						of the bridesmaids' dresses. Eugenia got the material in Paris for all of them. I'm at
						liberty to tell you that much."
					"Is that the wedding where you are to be maid of honor, Princess? " asked Grace
						Campman, one of the girls who had been posing in the plum-tree, and who had followed her
						down to hear the news.
					"Yes," answered Lloyd. "Is it any wondah that I'm neahly wild with curiosity?"
					"Make her tell," urged an excited chorus. " Just half a day beforehand won't make any
						difference."


					

					"Let's all begin and beg her," suggested Grace.
					 Lloyd, long used to gaining her own way with Betty by a system of affectionate coaxing
						hard to resist, turned impulsively to begin the siege to wrest the secret from her, but
						another reference to the maid of honor by Grace made her pause. Then she said suddenly,
						with the well-known princess-like lifting of the head that they all admired:
					"No, don't tell me, Betty. A maid of honah should be too honahable to
						insist on finding out things that were not intended for her to know. I hadn't thought.
						If mothah took all the trouble of sending a special-delivery lettah to you to keep me
						from knowing till my birthday, I'm not going to pry around trying to find out."
					"Well, if you aren't the queerest," began Grace. "One would think to
						hear you talk that 'maid of honor' was some great title to be lived up to like the 'Maid
						of Orleans,' and that only some high and mighty creature like Joan of Arc could do it.
						But it's nothing more than to go first in the wedding march, and hold the bride's
						bouquet. I shouldn't think you'd let a little thing like that stand in the way of your
						finding out what you're so crazy to know."
					"Wouldn't you?" asked Lloyd, with a slight  shrug, and in a tone which Dora described afterward to Cornie as simply
						withering. 
							
								"'Well, that's the difference, as you see,
								Betwixt my lord the king and me!'"
							
						
					To Grace's wonder, she dropped the sample of pink chiffon in Betty's lap, as if it had
						lost all interest for her, and stood up.
					"Come on, girls," she exclaimed. "Let's take the rest of those pictuahs. There are two
						moah films left in the roll."
					"I might as well go with you," said Betty, gathering up the loose leaves that had
						fallen from her note-book. "It's no use trying to write with my head so full of the
						grand secret. I couldn't possibly think of anything else."
					Arm in arm with Allison, she sauntered up the steps behind the others to the old
						garden, which was the pride of every pupil in Warwick Hall. The hollyhocks from Ann
						Hathaway's cottage had not yet begun to flaunt their rosettes of color, but the
						rhododendrons from Killarney were in gorgeous bloom. As Lloyd focussed the camera in
						such a way as to make them a background for a picture of the sun-dial, Betty heard Kitty
						ask: "You'll let us know early in the morning what your present is, won't you,
						Princess?"


					



					"Yes, I'll run into yoah room with it early in the mawning, just as soon as I lay eyes
						on it myself," promised Lloyd, solemnly.
					"She can't!" whispered Betty to Allison, with a giggle. "In the first place, it's
						something that can't be carried, and in the second place it will take a month for her to
						see all of it herself."
					Allison stopped short in the path, her face a picture of baffled curiosity. "Betty
						Lewis," she said, solemnly, "I could find it in my heart to choke you. Don't tempt me
						too far, or I'll do it with a good grace."
					Betty laughed and pushed aside the vines at the entrance to the arbor. "Come in here,"
						she said, in a low tone. "I've intended all along to tell you as soon as we got away
						from Grace Campman and those freshmen, for it concerns you and Kitty, too. You missed
						the first house-party we had at The Locusts, but you'll have a big share in the second
						one. For a June house-party with a wedding in it is the 'surprise' godmother has written
						about in Lloyd's birthday letter."
				

				
				
					CHAPTER II.
						AT WARE'S WIGWAM

					IN order that Lloyd's invitation to her own house-party might reach
						her on her birthday, it had not been mailed until several days after the others. So it
						happened that the same morning on which she slipped across the hall in her kimono, to
						share her first rapturous delight with Kitty, Joyce Ware's letter reached the end of its
						journey.
					The postman on the first rural delivery route out of Phoenix jogged along in his cart
						toward Ware's Wigwam. He had left the highway and was following the wheel-tracks which
						led across the desert to Camelback Mountain. The horse dropped into a plodding walk as
						the wheels began pulling heavily through the sand, and the postman yawned. This stretch
						of road through the cactus and sage-brush was the worst part of his daily trip. He
						rarely passed anything more interesting than a jack-rabbit, but this morning he spied
						something ahead that aroused his curiosity.



					

					At first it seemed only a flash of something pink beating the air; but, as he jogged
						nearer, he saw that the flash of pink was a short-skirted gingham dress. A high-peaked
						Mexican hat hid the face of the wearer, but it needed no second glance to tell him who
						she was. Every line of the sturdy little figure, from the uplifted arms brandishing a
						club to the dusty shoes planted widely apart to hold her balance, proclaimed that it was
						Mary Ware. As the blows fell with relentless energy, the postman chuckled.
					"Must be killing a snake," he thought." Whatever it is, it will be flatter than a
						pancake when she gets through with it."
					Somehow he always felt like chuckling when he met Mary Ware. Whatever she happened to
						be doing was done with a zeal and a vim that made this fourteen-year-old girl a
						never-failing source of amusement to the easy-going postman. Now as he came within
						speaking distance, he saw a surrey drawn up to the side of the road, and recognized the
						horse as old Bogus from Lee's ranch.
					A thin, tall woman, swathed in a blue veil; sat stiffly on the back seat, reaching
						forward to hold the reins in a grasp that showed both fear and unfamiliarity in the
						handling of horses. She was a 
						

							"IT NEEDED NO SECOND GLANCE TO TELL HIM WHO SHE WAS"

						
						
						 new boarder at Lee's ranch. Evidently they had been out on
						some errand for Mrs. Lee, and were returning from one of the neighboring orange-groves,
						for the back of the surrey was filled with oranges and grapefruit.
					The postman's glance turned from the surrey to the object in the road with an
						exclamation of surprise. One of the largest rattlesnakes he had ever seen lay stretched
						out there, and Mary, having dropped her club, was proceeding to drag it toward the
						surrey by a short lasso made of a piece of the hitching-rope. The postman stood up in
						his cart to look at it.
					"Better be sure it's plumb dead before you give it a seat in your carriage," he
						advised.
					Mary gave a glance of disgust toward the blue-veiled figure in the surrey.
					"Oh, it's dead," she said, witheringly. "Mr. Craydock shot its head
						off to begin with, over at the orange-grove this morning, and I've killed it four
						different times on our way home. He gave it to me to take to Norman for his collection.
						But Miss Scudder is so scared of it that she makes me get out every half-mile to pound a
						few more inches off its neck. It was a perfect beauty when we started, -five feet long
						and twelve rattles. I'm  so afraid I'll break off some of
						the rattles that I'll be mighty glad when I get it safely home."
					"So will I!" ejaculated Miss Scudder, so fervently that the postman laughed as he drove
						on.
					"Any mail for us?" Mary called after him.
					"Only some papers and a letter for your sister," he answered over his shoulder.
					"Now why didn't I ask him to take me and the snake on home in the cart with him?"
						exclaimed Mary, as she lifted the rattler into the surrey by means of the lasso, and
						took the reins from the new boarder's uneasy hands. "Even if you can't drive, Bogus
						could take you to the ranch all right by himself. Lots of times when Hazel Lee and I are
						out driving, we wrap the reins around the whip-holder and let him pick his own way. Now
						I'll have to drag this snake all the way from the ranch to the Wigwam, and it will be a
						dreadful holdback when I'm in such a hurry to get there and see who Joyce's letter is
						from.
					"You see," she continued, clucking cheerfully to Bogus, "the postman's mail-pouch is
						almost as interesting as a grab-bag, since my two brothers went away. Holland is in the
						navy," she added, proudly, "and my oldest brother, Jack, has a  position in the mines up where mamma and Norman and I are going to spend the
						summer."
					Three years in the desert had not made Mary Ware any the less talkative. At fourteen
						she was as much of a chatterbox as ever, but so diverting, with her fund of unexpected
						information and family history and her cheerful outlook on life, that Mrs. Lee often
						sent for her to amuse some invalid boarder, to the mutual pleasure of the small
						philosopher and her audience.
					The experiment this morning had proved anything but a pleasure drive for either of
						them, however. Timid Miss Scudder, afraid of horses, afraid of the lonely desert, and
						with a deathly horror of snakes, gave a sigh of relief when they came in sight of the
						white tents clustered around the brown adobe ranch house on the edge of the irrigating
						canal. But with the end of her journey in sight, she relaxed her strained muscles and
						nerves somewhat, and listened with interest to what Mary was saying.
					"This year has brought three of us our heart's desires, anyhow. Holland has been wild
						to get into the navy ever since he was big enough to know that there is one. Jack has
						been looking forward to this position in the mines ever since we came out  West. It will be the making of him, everybody says. And
						Joyce's one dream in life has been to save enough money to go East to take lessons in
						designing. Her bees have done splendidly, but I don't believe she could have quite managed it if Eugenia Forbes hadn't invited her to be one of the
						bridesmaids at her wedding, and promised to send her a pass to New York."
					She broke off abruptly as Bogus came to a stop in front of the tents, and, standing up,
						she proceeded to dangle the snake carefully over the wheel, till it was lowered in
						safety to the ground. Ordinarily she would have lingered at the ranch until the occupant
						of every tent had strolled out to admire her trophy, and afterward might have accepted
						Hazel Lee's invitation to stay to dinner. It was a common occurrence for them to spend
						their Saturdays together. But to-day not even the promise of strawberry shortcake and a
						ride home afterward, when it was cooler, could tempt her to stay.
					The yellow road stretched hot and glaring across the treeless desert. The snake was too
						heavy to carry on a pole over her shoulder. She would have to drag it through the sun
						and sand if she went now. But her curiosity was too strong to allow her to wait. She
						must find out what was in that  letter to Joyce. If it were
						from Jack, there would be something in it about their plans for the summer; maybe a
						kodak picture of the shack in the pine woods near the mines, where they were to board.
						If it were from Holland, there would be another interesting chapter of his experiences
						on board the training-ship.
					Once as she trudged along the road, it occurred to her that the letter might be from
						her cousin Kate, the "witch with a wand," who had so often played fairy godmother to the
						family. She might be writing to say that she had sent another box. Straightway Mary's
						active imagination fell to picturing its contents so blissfully that she forgot the heat
						of the sun-baked road over which she was going. Her face was beaded with perspiration
						and her eyes squinted nearly shut under the broad brim of the Mexican sombrero, but,
						revelling in the picture her mind called up of cool white dresses and dainty thin-soled
						slippers, she walked faster and faster, oblivious to the heat and the glaring light. Her
						sunburned cheeks were flaming red when she finally reached the Wigwam, and the locks of
						hair straggling down her forehead hung in limp wet strings.
					Lifting the snake carefully across the bridge  which
						spanned the irrigating canal, she trailed it into the yard and toward the umbrella-tree
						which shaded the rustic front porch. Under this sheltering umbrella-tree, which spread
						its dense arch like a roof, sat Joyce and her mother. The heap of muslin goods piled up
						around them showed that they had spent a busy morning sewing. But they were idle now.
						One glance showed Mary that the letter, whosever it was, had brought unusual news. Joyce
						sat on the door-step with it in her lap and her hands clasped over her knees. Mrs. Ware,
						leaning back in her sewing-chair, was opening and shutting a pair of scissors in an
						absent-minded manner, as if her thoughts were a thousand miles away.
					"Well, it's good news, anyway," was Mary's first thought, as she glanced at her
						sister's radiant face." She wouldn't look so pretty if it wasn't. It's a pity she can't
						be hearing good news all the time. When her eyes shine like that, she's almost
						beautiful. Now me, all the good news in the world wouldn't make me
						look beautiful, freckled and fat and sunburned as I am, and my hair so fine and thin and
						straight -"
					She paused in her musings to look up each sleeve for her handkerchief, and not finding
						it in either,  caught up the hem of her short pink skirt to
						wipe her perspiring face.
					"Oh, what did the postman bring?" she demanded, seating herself on
						the edge of the hammock swung under the umbrella-tree. "I've almost walked myself into a
						sunstroke, hurrying to get here and find out. Is it from Jack or Holland or Cousin
						Kate?"
					"It is from The Locusts," answered Joyce, leaning forward to see what was tied to the
						other end of the rope which Mary still held. Seeing that it was only a snake, something
						which Mary and Holland were always dragging home, to add to their collection of skins
						and shells, she went on:
					"The Little Colonel is to have a second house-party. The same girls that were at the
						first one are invited for the month of June, and Eugenia is to be married there instead
						of in New York. Think what a wedding it will be, in that beautiful old Southern home! A
						thousand times nicer than it would have been in New York."
					She stopped to enjoy the effect her news had produced. Mary's face was glowing with
						unselfish pleasure in her sister's good fortune.
					"And we're to wear pale pink chiffon dresses, just the color of wild roses. Eugenia got
						the  material in Paris when she ordered her wedding-gown,
						and they're to be made in Louisville after we get there."
					The light in Mary's face was deepening.
					"And Phil Tremont is to be there the entire month of June. He is to be best man, you
						know, since Eugenia is to marry his brother."
					"Oh, Joyce!" gasped Mary. "What a heavenly time you are going to have! Just The Locusts
						by itself would be good enough, but to be there at a house-party, and have Phil there
						and to see a wedding! I've always wanted to go to a wedding. I never saw one in my
						life."
					"Tell her the rest, daughter," prompted Mrs. Ware, gently. "Don't keep her in the dark
						any longer."
					"Well, then," said Joyce, smiling broadly. "Let me break it to you by degrees, so the
						shock won't give you apoplexy or heart-failure. The rest of it is, that you-Mary Ware, are invited also. You are invited to go with me
						to the house-party at The Locusts! And you'll see the wedding, for Mr.
						Sherman is going to send tickets for both of us, and mamma and I have made all the
						plans. Now that she is so well, she won't need either of us while she's up at the camp
						with Jack, and the  money it would have taken to pay your
						board will buy the new clothes you need."
					All the color faded out of the hot little face as Mary listened, growing pale with
						excitement.
					"Oh, mamma, is it true?" she asked, imploringly. "I don't see how it
						can be. But Joyce wouldn't fool me about anything as big as this, would she?"
					She asked the question in such a quiver of eagerness that the tears sprang to her eyes.
						Joyce had expected her to spin around on her toes and squeal one delighted little squeal
						after another, as she usually did when particularly happy. She did not know what to
						expect next, when all of a sudden Mary threw herself across her mother's lap and began
						to sob and laugh at the same time.
					"Oh, mamma, the old Vicar was right. It's been awfully hard sometimes to k-keep
						inflexible. Sometimes I thought it would nearly k-kill me! But we did it! We did it! And
						now fortune has changed in our favor, and everything is all
						right!"
					A rattle of wheels made her look up and hastily wipe the hem of her pink skirt across
						her face again. A wagon was stopping at the gate, and the man who was to stay in one of
						the tents and take care of the bees in their absence was getting out  to discuss the details of the arrangement. Joyce tossed the
						letter into Mary's lap and rose to follow her mother out to the hives. There were
						several matters of business to arrange with him, and Mary knew it would be some time
						before they could resume the exciting conversation he had interrupted. She read the
						letter through, hardly believing the magnitude of her good fortune. But, as the truth of
						it began to dawn upon her, she felt that she could not possibly keep such news to
						herself another instant. It might be an hour before Joyce and her mother had finished
						discussing business with the man and Norman was away fishing somewhere up the canal.
					So, settling her hat on her head, she started back over the hot road, so absorbed in
						the thought of all she had to tell Hazel that she was wholly unconscious of the fact
						that she was still holding tightly to the rope tied around the rattler's neck. Five feet
						of snake twitched along behind her as she started on a run toward the ranch.
				

				
				
					CHAPTER III.
						IN BEAUTY'S QUEST

					
						
							"Fortune has at last--fortune has at last--
							Fortune has at last changed in our fa-vor!"
						
					

					A HUNDRED times, in the weeks that followed, Mary turned the old
						Vicar's saying into sort of a chant, and triumphantly intoned it as she went about the
						house, making preparations for her journey. Most of the time she was not aware that her
						lips were repeating what her heart was constantly singing, and one day, to her dire
						mortification, she chanted the entire strain in one of the largest drygoods stores in
						Phoenix, before she realized what she was doing.
					She had gone with Joyce to select some dress material for herself. It had been so long
						since Mary had had any clothes except garments made over and handed down, that the
						wealth of choice offered her was almost overpowering. To be sure it was a bargain
						counter they were hanging over,  but the remnants of lawn
						and organdy and gingham were so entrancingly new in design and dainty in coloring, that
						without a thought to appearances she caught up the armful of pretty things which Joyce
						had decided they could afford. Clasping them ecstatically in an impulsive hug, she sang
						at the top of her voice, just as she would have done had she been out alone on the
						desert: "Fortune has at last changed in our fa-vor!"
					When Joyce's horrified exclamation and the clerk's amused smile recalled her to her
						surroundings, she could have gone under the counter with embarrassment. Although she
						flushed hotly for several days whenever she thought of the way everybody in the store
						turned to stare at her, she still hummed the same words whenever a sense of her great
						good fortune overwhelmed her. Such times came frequently, especially whenever a new
						garment was completed and she could try it on with much preening and many satisfied
						turns before the mirror.
					It was on one of these occasions, when she was proudly revolving in the daintiest of
						them all, a pale blue mull which she declared was the color of a wild morning-glory,
						that a remark of her mother's, in the next room, filled her with dismay. It had not  been intended for her ears, but it floated in dis-
						distinctly, above the whirr of the sewing-machine.
					"Joyce, I am sorry we made up that blue for Mary. She's so tanned and sunburned that it
						seems to bring out all the red tints in her skin, and makes her look like a little
						squaw. I never realized how this climate has injured her complexion until I saw her in
						that shade of blue, and remembered how becoming it used to be. She was like an
						apple-blossom, all white and pink, when we came out here."
					Mary had been so busy looking at her new clothes that she had paid little attention to
						the face above them, reflected in the mirror. It had tanned so gradually that she had
						become accustomed to having that sunbrowned little visage always smile back at her.
						Besides, every one she met was tanned by the wind and weather, some of them spotted with
						big dark freckles. Joyce wasn't. Joyce had always been careful about wearing a sunbonnet
						or a wide brimmed hat when she went out in the sun. Mary remembered now, with many
						compunctions, how often she had been warned to do the same. She wished with all her
						ardent little soul that she had not been so careless, and presently, after a serious,
						half-tearful study of herself in the glass, she went away to find a remedy. 


					

					In the back of the cook-book, she remembered, there was a receipt for cold cream, and
						in a magazine Mrs. Lee had loaned them was a whole column devoted to face bleaches and
						complexion restorers. Having read each formula, she decided to try them all in turn, if
						the first did not prove effective.
					Buttermilk and lemon juice were to be had for the taking and could be applied at night
						after Joyce had gone to sleep. Half-ashamed of this desire to make herself beautiful,
						Mary shrank from confiding her troubles to any one. But several nights' use of all the
						home remedies she could get, failed to produce the desired results. When she anxiously
						examined herself in the glass, the unflattering mirror plainly showed her a little face,
						not one whit fairer for all its treatment.
					The house-party was drawing near too rapidly to waste time on things of such slow
						action, and at last, in desperation, she took down the savings-bank in which, after long
						hoarding, she had managed to save nearly two dollars. By dint of a button-hook and a
						hat-pin and an hour's patient poking, she succeeded in extracting five dimes. These she
						wrapped in tissue paper, and folded in a letter. In a Phoenix newspaper she had seen an
						advertisement of a magical cosmetic, to be found on sale at one of the  local drug-stores, and this was an order for a box.
					She was accustomed to running out to watch for the postman. Often in her eagerness to
						get the mail she had met him half a mile down the road. So she had ample opportunity to
						send her order and receive a reply without the knowledge of any of the family.
					It was a delicious-smelling ointment. The directions on the wrapper said that on
						retiring, it was to be applied to the face like a thick paste, and a linen mask worn to
						prevent its rubbing off.
					Now that the boys were away, Mary shared the circular tent with Joyce. The figures
						"mystical and awful" which she and Holland had put on its walls with green paint the day
						they moved to the Wigwam, had faded somewhat in the fierce sun of tropical summers, but
						they still grinned hideously from all sides. Outlandish as they were, however, no face
						on all the encircling canvas was as grotesque as the one which emerged from under the
						bed late in the afternoon, the day the box of cosmetic was ceived.
					Mary had crept under the bed in order to escape Norman's prying eyes in case he should
						glance into the tent in search of her. There, stretched out on  the floor with a pair of scissors and a piece of one of her old linen aprons,
						she had fashioned herself a mask, in accordance with the directions on the box. The
						holes cut for the eyes and nose were a trifle irregular, one eye being nearly half an
						inch higher than the other, and the mouth was decidedly askew. But tapes sewed on at the
						four corners made it ready for instant use, and when she had put it on and crawled out
						from under the bed, she regarded herself in the glass with great satisfaction.
					"I hope Joyce won't wake up in the night and see me," she thought. " She'd be scared
						stiff. This is a lot of trouble and expense, but I just can't go to the house-party
						looking like a fright. I'd do lots more than this to keep the Princess from being
						ashamed of me."
					Then she put it away and went out to the hammock, under the umbrella-tree, and while
						she sat swinging back and forth for a long happy hour, she pictured to herself the
						delights of the coming house-party. The Princess would be changed, she knew. Her last
						photograph showed that. One is almost grown up at seventeen, and she had been only
						fourteen, Mary's age, when she made that never to be forgotten visit to the Wigwam. And
						she would see Betty and Betty's godmother and Papa Jack and the  old Colonel and Mom Beck. The very names, as she repeated them in a whisper,
						sounded interesting to her. And the two little knights of Kentucky, and Miss Allison and
						the Waltons--they were all mythical people in one sense, like Alice in Wonderland and
						Bo-peep, yet in another they were as real as Holland or Hazel Lee, for they were
						household names, and she had heard so much about them that she felt a sort of kinship
						with each one.
					With the mask and the box tucked away in readiness under her pillow, it was an easy
						matter after Joyce had gone to sleep for Mary to lift herself to a sitting posture, inch
						by inch. Cautiously as a cat she raised herself, then sat there in the darkness scooping
						out the smooth ointment with thumb and finger, and spreading it thickly over her
						inquisitive little nose and plump round cheeks. All up under her hair and down over her
						chin she rubbed it with energy and thoroughness. Then tying on the mask, she eased
						herself down on her elbow, little by little, and snuggled into her pillow with a sigh of
						relief.
					It was a long time before she fell asleep. The odor of the ointment was sickeningly
						sweet, and the mask gave her a hot smothery feeling. When she finally dozed off it was
						to fall into a succession of uneasy dreams. She thought that the cat was sitting  on her face; that an old ogre had her head tied up in a bag
						and was carrying it home to change into an apple dumpling, then that she was a fly and
						had fallen into a bottle of mucilage. From the last dream she roused with a start, hot
						and uncomfortable, but hardly wide awake enough to know what was the matter.
					The salty dried beef they had had for supper made her intensely thirsty, and
						remembering the pitcher of fresh water which Joyce always brought into the tent every
						night, she slipped out of bed and stumbled across the floor toward the table. The moon
						was several nights past the full now, so that at this late hour the walls of the tent
						glimmered white in its light, and where the flap was turned back at the end, it shone
						in, in a broad white path.
					Not more than half awake, Mary had forgotten the elaborate way in which she had tied up
						her face, and catching sight in the mirror of an awful spook gliding toward her, she
						stepped back, almost frozen with terror. Never had she imagined such a hideous ghost,
						white as flour, with one round eye higher than the other, and a dreadful slit of a
						mouth, all askew.
					She was too frightened to utter a sound, but the pitcher fell to the floor with a
						crash, and as the cold  water splashed over her feet she
						bounded back into bed and pulled the cover over her head. Instantly, as her hand came in
						contact with the mask on her face, she realized that it was only her own reflection in
						the glass which had frightened her, but the shock was so great she could not stop
						trembling.
					Wakened by the sound of the breaking pitcher and Mary's wild plunge back into bed,
						Joyce sat up in alarm, but in response to her whisper Mary explained in muffled tones
						from under the bedclothes that she had simply gotten up for a drink of water and dropped
						the pitcher. All the rest of the night her sleep was fitful and uneasy, for toward
						morning her face began to burn as if it were on fire. She tore off the mask and used it
						to wipe away what remained of the ointment. Most of it had been absorbed, however, and
						the skin was broken out in little red blisters.
					Maybe in her zeal she had used too much of the magical cosmetic, or maybe her face,
						already made tender by various applications, resented the vigorous rubbings she gave it.
						At any rate she had cause to be frightened when she saw herself in the mirror. As she
						lifted the pitcher from the washstand she happened to glance at the proverb calendar
						hanging over the towel-rack, and saw the verse  for the
						day. It was "Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall." The
						big red letters stood out accusingly.
					"Oh dear," she thought, as she plunged her burning face into the bowl of cold water,
						"if I hadn't had so much miserable pride, I wouldn't have destroyed what little
						complexion I had left. Like as not the skin will all peel off now, and I'll look like a
						half-scaled fish for weeks."
					She was so irritable later, when Joyce exclaimed over her blotched and mottled
						appearance, that Mrs. Ware decided she must be coming down with some kind of rash. It
						was only to prevent her mother sending for a doctor, that Mary finally confessed with
						tears what she had done.
					"Why didn't you ask somebody?" said Joyce, trying not to let her voice betray the
						laughter which was choking her, for Mary showed a grief too deep to ridicule.
					"I--I was ashamed to," she confessed," and I wanted to surprise you all. The
						advertisement said g-grow b-beautiful while you sleep, and now--oh, it's spoiled me!" she wailed. "And I can't go to the house-party--"
					"Yes, you can, goosey," said Joyce, consolingly. "Mamma has Grandma Ware's old receipt
						for rose  balm, that will soon heal those blisters. You
						would have saved yourself a good deal of trouble and suffering if you had gone to her in
						the first place."
					"Well, don't I know that?" blazed Mary, angrily. Then hiding her face in her arms she
						began to sob. "You don't know what it is to be uh-ugly like me! I heard mamma say that I
						was as brown as a squaw, and I couldn't bear to think of Lloyd and Betty and everybody
						at The Locusts seeing me that way. That's why I did it!"
					"You are not ugly, Mary Ware," insisted Joyce, in a most reproving big-sisterly voice.
						"Everybody can't be a raving, tearing beauty, and anybody with as bright and attractive
						a little face as yours ought to be satisfied to let well enough alone."
					"That's all right for you," replied Mary, bitterly. "But you aren't
						fat, with a turned-up nose and just a little thin straight pigtail of hair. "You're
						pretty, and an artist, and you're going to be somebody some day. But I'm just plain
						'little Mary,' with no talents or anything!"
					Choking with tears, she rushed out of the room, and took refuge in the swing down by
						the beehives. For once the "School of the Bees " failed to whisper a comforting lesson.
						This was a trouble which she could not seal up in its cell, and for many days  it poisoned all life's honey. Presently she slipped back
						into the house for a pencil and box of paper, and sitting on the swing with her
						geography on her knees for a writing-table, she poured out her troubles in a letter to
						Jack. It was only a few hundred miles to the mines, and she could be sure of a
						sympathetic answer before the blisters were healed on her face, or the hurt had faded
						out of her sensitive little heart.

				
				
				
					CHAPTER IV.
						MARY'S "PROMISED LAND"

					It was a hot, tiresome journey back to Kentucky. Joyce, worn out with all the hurried
						preparations of packing her mother and Norman off to the mines, closing the Wigwam for
						the summer, and putting her own things in order for a long absence, was glad to lean
						back in her seat with closed eyes, and take no notice of her surroundings. But Mary
						travelled in the same energetic way in which she killed snakes. Nothing escaped her.
						Every passenger in the car, every sight along the way was an object of interest. She sat
						up straight and eager, scarcely batting an eyelash, for fear of missing something.
					To her great relief the peeling process had been a short one, and thanks to the rose
						balm, not a trace of a blister was left on her smooth skin to remind her of her foolish
						little attempt to beautify herself in secret. The first day she made no acquaintances,
						for she admired the reserved way in which her pretty nineteen-year-old sister travelled,
						and tried to  imitate her, but after one day of elegant
						composure she longed for a chance to drop into easy sociability with some of her
						neighbors. They no longer seemed like strangers after she had travelled in their company
						for twenty-four hours.
					So she seized the first social opportunity which came to her next morning. A
						middle-aged woman, who was taking up all the available space in the dressing-room,
						grudgingly moved over a few inches when Mary tried to squeeze in to wash her face. Any
						one but Mary would have regarded her as a most unpromising companion, when she answered
						her question with a grumbling "Yes, been on two days, and got two more to go." The tone
						was as ungracious as if she had said, "Mind your own business."
					The train was passing over a section of rough road just then, and they swayed against
						each other several times, with polite apologies on Mary's part. Then as the woman
						finished skewering her hair into a tight knot she relaxed into friendliness far enough
						to ask, "Going far yourself?"
					"Yes, indeed!" answered Mary, cheerfully, reaching for a towel. "Going to the Promised
						Land."
					The car gave a sudden lurch, and the woman  dropped her
						comb, as she was sent toppling against Mary so forcibly that she pinned her to the wall
						a moment.
					"My!" she exclaimed as she regained her balance. "You don't mean clear to
						Palestine!"
					"No'm; our promised land is Kentucky," Mary hastened to explain. "Mamma used to live
						there, and she's told us so much about the beautiful times that she used to have in
						Lloydsboro Valley that it's been the dream of our life to go there. Since we've been
						wandering around in the desert, sort of camping out the way the old Israelites did,
						we've got into the way of calling that our promised land."
					"Well, I wouldn't count too much on it," advised the woman, sourly. "They say distance
						lends enchantment, and things hardly ever turn out as nice as you think they're going
						to."
					"They do at our house," persisted Mary, with unfailing cheerfulness. "They generally
						turn out nicer."
					Evidently her companion felt the worse for a night in a sleeper and had not yet been
						set to rights with the world by her morning cup of coffee, for she answered as if Mary's
						rose-colored view of life so early in the day irritated her.
					"Well, maybe your folks are an exception to the  rule,"
						she said, sharply, "but I know how it is with the world in general. Even old Moses
						himself didn't have his journey turn out the way he expected to. He looked forward to
							his promised land for forty years, and then didn't get to put foot
						on it."
					"But he got to go to heaven instead," persisted Mary, triumphantly, "and that's the
						best thing that could happen to anybody, especially if you're one hundred and twenty
						years old."
					There was no answer to this statement, and another passenger appearing at the
						dressing-room door just then, the woman remarked something about two being company and
						three a crowd, and squeezed past Mary to let the newcomer take her place.
					"She was more crowd than company," remarked Mary confidentially to
						the last arrival. "She took up most as much room as two people, and it's awful the way
						she looks on the dark side of things."
					There was an amused twinkle in the newcomer's eyes. She was a much younger woman than
						the one whose place she had taken, and evidently it was no trial for her to be sociable
						before breakfast. In a few minutes she knew all about the promised land to which the
						little pilgrim was journeying, and showed such friendly interest in the wedding and  the other delights in store for her that Mary lingered over
						her toilet as long as possible, in order to prolong the pleasure of having such an
						attentive audience.
					But she found others just as attentive before the day was over. The grateful mother
						whose baby she played with, welcomed her advances as she would have welcomed sunshine on
						a rainy day. The tired tourists who yawned over their time-tables, found her
						enthusiastic interest in everybody the most refreshing thing they had met in their
						travels. By night she was on speaking terms with nearly everybody in the car, and at
						last, when the long journey was done, a host of good wishes and good-byes followed her
						all down the aisle, as her new-made friends watched her departure, when the train slowed
						into the Union Depot in Louisville. She little dreamed what an apostle of good cheer she
						had been on her journey, or how long her eager little face and odd remarks would be
						remembered by her fellow passengers.
					All she thought of as the train stopped was that at last she had reached her promised
						land.
					Those of the passengers who had thrust their heads out of the windows, saw a tall,
						broad-shouldered young man come hurrying along toward the 
						girls, and heard Joyce exclaim in surprise, "Why, Rob Moore! Who ever dreamed of seeing
							you here? I thought you were in college? "
					"So I was till day before yesterday," he answered, as they shook hands like the best of
						old friends. "But grandfather was so ill they telegraphed for me, and I got leave of
						absence for the rest of the term. We were desperately alarmed about him, but 'all's well
						that ends well.' He is out of danger now, and it gave me this chance of coming to meet
						you."
					Mary, standing at one side, watched in admiring silence the easy grace of his greeting
						and the masterful way in which he took possession of Joyce's suit-case and trunk checks.
						When he turned to her to acknowledge his introduction as respectfully as if she had been
						forty instead of fourteen, her admiration shot up like mercury in a thermometer. She had
						felt all along that she knew Rob Moore intimately, having heard so much of his past
						escapades from Joyce and Lloyd. It was Rob who had given Joyce the little fox terrier,
						Bob, which had been such a joy to the whole family. It was Rob who had shared all the
						interesting life at The Locusts which she had heard pictured so vividly that she had
						long felt that she even knew exactly how he looked.  It was
						somewhat of a shock to find him grown up into this dignified young fellow, broad of
						shoulders and over six feet tall.
					As he led the way out to the street and hailed a passing car, he explained why Lloyd
						had not come in to meet them, adding, "Your train was two hours late, so I telephoned
						out to Mrs. Sherman that we would have lunch in town. I'll take you around to
						Benedict's."
					Mary had never eaten in a restaurant before, so it was with an inward dread that she
						might betray the fact that she followed Joyce and Rob to a side-table spread for three.
						In her anxiety to do the right thing she watched her sister like a hawk, copying every
						motion, till they were safely launched on the first course of their lunch. Then she
						relaxed her watchfulness long enough to take a full breath and look at some of the
						people to whom Rob had bowed as they entered.
					She wanted to ask the name of the lady in black at the opposite table. The little girl
						with her attracted her interest so that she could hardly eat. She was about her own age
						and she had such lovely long curls and such big dark eyes. To Mary, whose besetting sin
						was a love of pretty clothes, the picture hat the other girl wore was irresistible. She
						could  not keep her admiring glances away from it, and she
						wished with all her heart she had one like it. Presently Joyce noticed it too, and asked
						the very question Mary had been longing to ask.
					"That is Mrs. Walton, the General's wife, you know," answered Rob, "and her youngest
						daughter, Elise. You'll probably see all three of the girls while you're at The Locusts,
						for they're living in the Valley now and are great friends of Lloyd and Betty."
					"Oh, I know all about them," answered Joyce, "for Allison and Kitty go to Warwick Hall,
						and Lloyd and Betty fill their letters with their sayings and doings." Mary stole
						another glance at the lady in black. So this was an aunt of the two little knights of
						Kentucky, and the mother of the "Little Captain," whose name had been in all the papers
						as the youngest commissioned officer in the entire army. She would have something to
						tell Holland in her next letter. He had always been so interested in everything
						pertaining to Ranald Walton, and had envied him his military career until he himself had
						an opportunity to go into the navy.
					Presently Mrs. Walton finished her lunch, and on her way out stopped at their table to
						shake hands with Rob.


					

					"I was sure that this is Joyce Ware and her sister," she exclaimed, cordially, as Rob
						introduced them. " My girls are so excited over your coming they can hardly wait to meet
						you. They are having a little house-party themselves, at present, some girls from
						Lexington and two young army officers, whom I want you to know. Come here, Elise, and
						meet the Little Colonel's Wild West friends. Oh, we've lived in Arizona too, you know,"
						she added, laughing, "and I've a thousand questions to ask you about our old home. I'm
						looking forward to a long, cozy toe-to-toe on the subject, every time you come to The
						Beeches."
					After a moment's pleasant conversation she passed on, leaving such an impression of
						friendly cordiality that Joyce said, impulsively, "She's just dear!
						She makes you feel as if you'd known her always. Now toe-to-toe, for instance. That's
						lots more intimate and sociable than tete-a-tete."
					"That's what I thought, too," exclaimed Mary. "And isn't it nice, when you come
						visiting this way, to know everybody's history beforehand! Then just as soon as they
						appear on the scene you can fit in a background behind them."
					It was the first remark Mary had made in Rob's hearing, except an occasional
						monosyllable in regard  to her choice of dishes on the bill
						of fare, and he turned to look at her with an amused smile, as if he had just waked up
						to the fact that she was present.
					"She's a homely little thing," he thought, "but she looks as if she might grow up to be
						diverting company. She couldn't be a sister of Joyce's and not be bright." Then, in
						order to hear what she might say, he began to ask her questions. She was eating
						ice-cream. Joyce, who had refused dessert on account of a headache, opened her
						chatelaine bag to take out an envelope already stamped and addressed.
					"If you'll excuse me while you finish your coffee," she said to Rob, "I'll scribble a
						line to mamma to let her know we've arrived safely. I've dropped notes all along the
						way, but this is the one she'll be waiting for most anxiously. It will take only a
						minute."
					"Certainly," answered Rob, looking at his watch. "We have over twenty minutes to catch
						the next trolley out to the Valley. They run every half-hour now, you know. So take your
						time. It will give me a chance to talk to Mary. She hasn't told me yet what her
						impressions are of this grand old Commonwealth."


					

					If he had thought his teasing tone would bring the color to her face, it was because he
						was not as familiar with her background as she was with his. A long apprenticeship under
						Jack and Holland had made her proof against ordinary banter.
					"Well," she began, calmly, mashing the edges of her ice-cream with her spoon to make it
						melt faster, so far it is just as I imagined it would be. I've always thought of
						Kentucky as a place full of colored people and pretty girls and polite men. Of course
						I've not been anywhere yet but just in this room, and it certainly seems to be swarming
						with colored waiters. I can't see all over the room without turning around, but the
						ladies at the tables in front of me and the ones reflected in the mirrors are
						good-looking and stylish. Those girls you bowed to over there are pretty enough to be
						Gibson girls, just stepped out of a magazine; and so far-- you are the
						only man I have met."
					"Well," he said after a moment's waiting, "you haven't given me your opinion of me."
					There was a quizzical twinkle in his eye, which Mary, intent upon her beloved
						ice-cream, did not see. Her honest little face was perfectly serious as she replied,
						"Oh, you, --you're like Marse Phil and Marse Chan and those men in
						Thomas Nelson  Page's stories of 'Ole Virginia.' I love
						those stories, don't you? Especially the one about 'Meh Lady.' Of course I know that
						everybody in the South can't be as nice as they are, but whenever I think of Kentucky
						and Virginia I think of people like that."
					Such a broad compliment was more than Rob was prepared for. An embarrassed flush
						actually crept over his handsome face. Joyce, glancing up, saw it and laughed.
					"Mary is as honest as the father of his country himself," she said. "I'll warn you now.
						She'll always tell exactly what she thinks."
					"Now, Joyce," began Mary, indignantly, "you know I don't tell everything I think. I'll
						admit that I did use to be a chatterbox, when I was little, but even Holland says I'm
						not, now."
					"I didn't mean to call you a chatterbox," explained Joyce. "I was just warning Rob that
						he must expect perfectly straightforward replies to his questions."
					Joyce bent over her letter, and in order to start Mary to talking again, Rob cast about
						for another topic of conversation.
					"You wouldn't call those three girls at that last table, Gibson girls, would you?" he
						asked. "Look  at that dark slim one with the red cherries
						in her hat."
					Mary glanced at her critically. "No," she said, slowly. "She is not exactly pretty now,
						but she's the ugly-duckling kind. She may turn out to be the most beautiful swan of them
						all. I like that the best of any of Andersen's fairy tales. Don't you? I used to look at
						myself in the glass and tell myself that it would be that way with me. That my straight
						hair and pug nose needn't make any difference; that some day I'd surprise people as the
						ugly duckling did. But Jack said, no, I am not the swan kind. That no amount of waiting
						will make straight hair curly and a curly nose straight. Jack says I'll have my innings
						when I am an old lady-- that I'll not be pretty till I'm old. Then he says I'll make a
						beautiful grandmother, like Grandma Ware. He says her face was like a benediction.
						That's what he wrote to me just before I left home. Of course I'd rather be a beauty
						than a benediction, any day. But Jack says he laughs best who laughs last, and it's
						something to look forward to, to know you're going to be nice-looking in your old age
						when all your friends are wrinkled and faded."
					Rob's laugh was so appreciative that Mary felt with a thrill that he was finding her
						really  entertaining. She was sorry that Joyce's letter
						came to an end just then. Her mother's last warning had been for her to remember on all
						occasions that she was much younger than Joyce's friends, and they would not expect her
						to take a grown-up share of their conversation. She had promised earnestly to try to
						curb her active little tongue, no matter how much she wanted to be chief spokesman, and
						now, remembering her promise, she relapsed into sudden silence.
					All the way out to the Valley she sat with her hands folded in her lap, on the seat
						opposite Joyce and Rob. The car made so much noise she could catch only an occasional
						word of their conversation, so she sat looking out of the window, busy with her
						thoughts.
					"Sixty minutes till we get there. Now it's only fifty-nine. Now it's fifty-eight --
						just like the song 'Ten little, nine little, eight little Indians.' Pretty soon there'll
						just be one minute left."
					At this exciting thought the queer quivery feeling inside was so strong it almost
						choked her. Her heart gave a great thump when Joyce finally called, "Here we are," and
						Rob signalled the conductor to stop outside the great entrance gate.
					"The Locusts" at last. Pewees in the cedars  and robins on
						the lawn; everywhere the cool deep shadows of great trees, and wide stretches of waving
						blue-grass. Stately white pillars of an old Southern mansion gleamed through the vines
						at the end of the long avenue. Then a flutter of white dresses and gay ribbons, and
						Lloyd and Betty came running to meet them.

				
				
					


					CHAPTER V.
						AT "THE LOCUSTS"

					LLOYD and Betty had been home from Warwick Hall only two days, and
						the joyful excitement of arrival had not yet worn off. The Locusts had never looked so
						beautiful to them as it did this vacation, and their enthusiasm over all that was about
						to happen kept them in a flutter from morning till night.
					When Rob's telephone message came that the train was late and that he could not bring
						the girls out until after lunch, Lloyd chafed at the delay at first. Then she consoled
						herself with the thought that she could arrange a more effective welcome for the middle
						of the afternoon than for an earlier hour.
					"Grandfathah will have had his nap by that time," she said, with a saucy glance in his
						direction, "and he will be as sweet and lovely as a May mawning. And he'll have on a
						fresh white suit  for the evening, and a cah'nation in his
						buttonhole." Then she gave her orders more directly.
					"You must be suah to be out on the front steps to welcome them, grandfathah, with yoah
						co'tliest bow. And mothah, you must be beside him in that embroidered white linen dress
						of yoahs that I like so much. Mom Beck will stand in the doahway behind you all just
						like a pictuah of an old-time South'n welcome. Of co'se Joyce has seen it all befoah,
						but little Mary has been looking foh'wa'd to this visit to The Locusts as she would to
						heaven. You know what Joyce wrote about her calling this her promised land."
					"I know how it is going to make her feel," said Betty. "Just as it made me feel when I
						got here from the Cuckoo's Nest, and found this 'House Beautiful' of my dreams. And if
						she is the little dreamer that I was the best time will not be the arrival, but early
						candle-lighting time, when you are playing on your harp. I used to sit on a footstool at
						godmother's feet, so unutterably happy, that I would have to put out my hand to feel her
						dress. I was so afraid that she might vanish-- that everything was too lovely to be
						real.
					"And now, to think," she added, turning to Mrs. Sherman and affectionately laying a
						hand on each  shoulder, "it's lasted all this time, till I
						have grown so tall that I could pick you up and carry you off, little godmother. I am
						going to do it some day soon, lift you up bodily and put you into a story that I have
						begun to write. It will be my best work, because it is what I have lived."
					"You'd better live awhile longer," laughed Mrs. Sherman, "before you begin to settle
						what your best work will be. Think how the shy little Elizabeth of twelve has blossomed
						into the stately Elizabeth of eighteen, and think what possibilities are still ahead of
						you in the next six years."
					"When mothah and Betty begin to compliment each othah," remarked Lloyd, seating herself
						on the arm of the old Colonel's chair, "they are lost to all else in the world. So while
						we have this moment to ou'selves, my deah grandfathah, I want to impress something on
						yoah mind, very forcibly."
					The playful way in which she held him by the ears was a familiarity no one but Lloyd
						had ever dared take with the dignified old Colonel. She emphasized each sentence with a
						gentle pull and pinch.
					"Maybe you wouldn't believe it, but this little Mary Ware who is coming, has a most
						exalted opinion of me. From what Joyce says she thinks  I
						am perfect, and I don't want her disillusioned. It's so nice to have somebody look up to
						you that way, so I want to impress it on you that you're not to indulge in any
						reminiscence of my past while she is heah. You mustn't tell any of my youthful
						misdemeanahs that you are fond of telling-- how I threw mud on yoah coat, in one of my
						awful tempahs, and smashed yoah shaving-mug with a walking-stick, and locked Walkah down
						in the coal cellah when he wouldn't do what I wanted him to. You must 'let the dead past
						bury its dead, and act-- act in the living present,' so that she'll think that you think that I'm the piece of perfection she imagines me to be."
					"I'll be a party to no such deception," answered the old Colonel, sternly, although his
						eyes, smiling fondly on her, plainly spoke consent. "You know you're the worst spoiled
						child in Oldham County."
					"Whose fault is it?" retorted Lloyd, with a final pinch as she liberated his ears and
						darted away. "Ask Colonel George Lloyd. If there was any spoiling done, he did it."
					Two hours later, still in the gayest of spirits, Lloyd and Betty raced down the avenue
						to meet their guests, and tired and travel-stained as the newcomers were, the impetuous
						greeting gave  them a sense of having been caught up into a
						gay whirl of some kind. It gave them an excited thrill which presaged all sorts of
						delightful things about to happen. The courtly bows of the old Colonel, standing between
						the great white pillars, Mrs. Sherman's warm welcome, and Mom Beck's old-time curtseys,
						seemed to usher them into a fascinating story-book sort of life, far more interesting
						than any Mary had yet read.
					Several hours later, sitting in the long drawing-room, she wondered if she could be the
						same girl who one short week before was chasing across the desert like a Comanche
						Indian, beating the bushes for rattlesnakes, or washing dishes in the hot little kitchen
						of the Wigwam. Here in the soft light shed from many waxen tapers in the silver
						candelabra, surrounded by fine old ancestral portraits, and furniture that shone with
						the polish of hospitable generations, Mary felt civilized down to her very finger-tips:
						so thoroughly a lady, through and through, that the sensation sent a warm thrill over
						her.
					That feeling had begun soon after her arrival, when Mom Beck ushered her into a
						luxurious bathroom. Mary enjoyed luxury like a cat. As she splashed away in the big
						porcelain tub, she  wished that Hazel Lee could see the
						tiled walls, the fine ample towels with their embroidered monograms, the dainty soaps,
						and the cut-glass bottles of toilet-water, with their faint odor as of distant violets.
						Then she wondered if Mom Beck would think that she had refused her offers of assistance
						because she was not used to the services of a lady's maid. She was half-afraid of this
						old family servant in her imposing head-handkerchief and white apron.
					Recalling Joyce's experiences in France and what had been the duties of her maid,
						Marie, she decided to call her in presently to brush her hair and tie her slippers.
						Afterward she was glad that she had done so, for Mom Beck was a practised hair-dresser,
						and made the most of Mary's thin locks. She so brushed and fluffed and be-ribboned them
						in a new way, with a big black bow on top, that Mary beamed with satisfaction when she
						looked in the glass. The new way was immensely becoming.
					 Then when she went down to dinner, it seemed so elegant to find Mr. Sherman in a dress
						suit. The shaded candles and cut glass and silver and roses on the table made it seem
						quite like the dinner-parties she had read about in novels, and the talk that circled
						around of the latest books and the new  opera, and the
						happenings in the world at large, and the familiar mention of famous names, made her
						feel as if she were in the real social whirl at last.
					The name of copy-cat which Holland had given her proved well-earned now, for so easily
						did she fall in with the ways about her, that one would have thought her always
						accustomed to formal dinners, with a deft colored waiter like Alec at her elbow.
					Rob dined with them, and later in the evening Mrs. Walton came strolling over in
						neighborly fashion, bringing her house-party to call on the other party, she said,
						though to be sure only half of her guests had arrived, the two young army officers,
						George Logan and Robert Stanley. Allison and Kitty were with them, and-- Mary noted with
						a quick indrawn breath-- Ranald. The title of Little
						Captain no longer fitted him. He was far too tall. She was disappointed to find him
						grown.
					Somehow all the heroes and heroines whom she had looked upon as her own age, who were her own age when the interesting things she knew about them had
						happened, were all grown up. Her first disappointment had been in Rob, then in Betty.
						For this Betty was not the one Joyce had pictured in  her
						stories of the first house-party. This one had long dresses, and her curly hair was
						tucked up on her head in such a bewitchingly young-ladified way that Mary was in awe of
						her at first. She was not disappointed in her now, however, and no longer in awe, since
						Betty had piloted her over the place, swinging hands with her in as friendly a fashion
						as if she were no older than Hazel Lee, and telling the way she looked when she saw The Locusts for the fist time-- a timid little country girl in a
						sunbonnet, with a wicker basket on her arm.
					The military uniforms lent an air of distinction to the scene, and Allison and Kitty
						each began a conversation in such a vivacious way, that Mary found it difficult to
						decide which group to attach herself to. She did not want to lose a word that any one
						was saying, and the effort to listen to several separate conversations was as much of a
						strain as trying to watch three rings at the circus.
					Through the laughter and the repartee of the young people she heard Mrs. Walton say to
						Mr. Sherman: "Yes, only second lieutenants, but I've been an army woman long enough to
						appreciate them as they deserve. They have no rank to speak of, few privileges, are
						always expected to do the agreeable to visitors (and they do it), obliged to  give up their quarters at a moment's notice, take the duties
						nobody else wants, be cheerful under all conditions, and ready for anything. It is an
						exception when a second lieutenant is not dear and fascinating. As for these two, I am
						doubly fond of them, for their fathers were army men before them, and old-time friends
						of ours. George I knew as a little lad in Washington. I must tell you of an adventure of
						his, that shows what a sterling fellow he is."
					Mary heard only part of the anecdote, for at the same time Kitty was telling an
						uproariously funny joke on Ranald, and all the rest were laughing. But she heard enough
						to make her take a second look at Lieutenant Logan. He was leaning forward in his chair,
						talking to Joyce with an air of flattering interest. And Joyce, in one of her new
						dresses, her face flushed a little from the unusual excitement, was talking her best and
						looking her prettiest.
					"She's having a good time just like other girls," thought Mary, thankfully. "This will
						make up for lots of lonely times in the desert, when she was homesick for the
						high-school girls and boys at Plainsville. It would be fine if things would turn out so
						that Joyce liked an army man. If she married one and lived at a post she'd invite me to
						visit 
						

							"HE WAS LEANING FORWARD IN HIS CHAIR, TALKING TO JOYCE"

						
						
						 her. Lieutenant Logan might be a general some day, and it
						would be nice to have a great man in the family. I wish mamma and Jack and Holland could
						see what a good time we are having."
					It did not occur to Mary that, curled up in a big chair in the corner, she was taking
						no more active share in the good times than the portraits on the wall. Her eager smile
						and the alert happy look in her eyes showed that she was all atingle with the unusual
						pleasure the evening was affording her. She laughed and looked and listened, sure that
						the scene she was enjoying was as good as a play. She had never seen a play, it is true;
						but she had read of them, and of player folk, until she knew she was fitted to judge of
						such things.
					It was a pleasure just to watch the gleam of the soft candle-light on Kitty's red
						ribbons, or on the string of gold beads around Allison's white throat. Maybe it was the
						candle-light which threw such a soft glamour over everything and made it seem that the
						pretty girls and the young lieutenants were only portraits out of a beautiful old past
						who had stepped down from their frames for a little while. Yet when Mary glanced up, the
						soldier boy was still in his picture on the wall, and the beautiful girl with the June
						rose in her hair was still in her frame,  standing beside
						her harp, her white hand resting on its shining strings.
					"It is my grandmothah Amanthis," explained Lloyd in answer to the lieutenant's
						question, as his gaze also rested admiringly on it. "Yes, this is the same harp you see
						in the painting. Yes, I play a little. I learned to please grandfathah."
					Then, a moment later, Mary reached the crown of her evening's enjoyment, for Lloyd, in
						response to many voices, took her place beside the harp below the picture, and struck a
						few deep, rich chords. Then, with an airy running accompaniment, she began the Dove Song
						from the play of "The Princess Winsome:" 
							
								"Flutter and fly, flutter and fly,
								Bear him my heart of gold."
							
						

					It was all as Mary had imagined it would be, a hundred times in her day-dreams, only
						far sweeter and more beautiful. She had not thought how the white sleeves would fall
						back from the round white arms, or how her voice would go fluttering up like a bird,
						sweet and crystal clear on the last high note.
					Afterward, when the guests were gone and everybody had said good night, Mary lay awake
						in the pink blossom of a room which she shared with  Joyce,
						the same room Joyce had had at the first house-party. She was having another good time,
						thinking it all over. She thought scornfully of the woman on the sleeping-car who had
						told her that distance lends enchantment, and that she must not expect too much of her
						promised land. She hoped she might meet that woman again some day, so that she could
						tell her that it was not only as nice as she had expected to find it, but a hundred
						times nicer.
					She reminded herself that she must tell Betty about her in the morning. As she recalled
						one pleasant incident after another, she thought, "Now this is life! No wonder Lloyd is so bright and interesting when she has been
						brought up in such an atmosphere."

				
				
					







					 CHAPTER VI.
						THE FOX AND THE STORK

					LLOYD SHERMAN at seventeen was a combination of all the characters
						her many nicknames implied. The same imperious little ways and hasty outbursts of temper
						that had won her the title of Little Colonel showed themselves at times. But she was
						growing so much like the gentle maiden of the portrait that the name "Amanthis" trembled
						on the old Colonel's lips very often when he looked at her. The Tusitala ring on her
						finger showed that she still kept in mind the Road of the Loving Heart, which she was
						trying to leave behind her in every one's memory, and the string of tiny Roman pearls
						she sometimes clasped around her throat bore silent witness to her effort to live up to
						the story of Ederyn, and keep tryst with all that was expected of her.
					 When a long line of blue-blooded ancestors has handed down a heritage of proud
						traditions and family standards, it is no easy matter to be all that  is expected of an only child. But Lloyd was meeting all
						expectations, responding to the influence of beauty and culture with which she had
						always been surrounded, as unconsciously as a bud unfolds to the sunshine. Her ambition
						"to make undying music in the world," to follow in the footsteps of her beautiful
						grandmother Amanthis, was in itself a reaching-up to one of the family ideals.
					When the girls began calling her the Princess Winsome, unconsciously she began to reach
						up to be worthy of that title also, but when she found that Mary Ware was taking her as
						a model Maid of Honor, in all that that title implies, she began to feel that a burden
						was laid upon her shoulders. She had had such admirers before: little Magnolia Budine at
						Lloydsboro Seminary, and Cornie Dean at Warwick Hall. It was pleasant to know that they
						considered her perfection, but it was a strain to feel that she was their model, and
						that they copied her in everything, her faults as well as her graces. They had followed
						her like shadows, and such devotion grows tiresome.
					Happily for Mary Ware, whatever else she did, she never bored any one. She was too
						independent and original for that. When she found an occasion to talk, she made the most
						of her opportunity,  and talked with all her might, but her
						sensitiveness to surroundings always told her when it was time to retire into the
						background, and she could be so dumb as to utterly efface herself when the time came for
						her to keep silent.
					A long list of delights filled her first letter home, but the one most heavily
						underscored, and chief among them all, was the fact that the big girls did not seem to
						consider her a "little pitcher" or a "tag." No matter where they went or what they
						talked about, she was free to follow and to listen. It was interesting to the verge of
						distraction when they talked merely of Warwick Hall and the school-girls, or recalled
						various things that had happened at the first house-party. But when they discussed the
						approaching wedding, the guests, the gifts, the decorations, and the feast, she almost
						held her breath in her eager enjoyment of it.
					Several times a day, after the passing of trains, Alec came up from the station with
						express packages. Most of them were wedding presents, which the bridesmaids pounced upon
						and carried away to the green room to await Eugenia's arrival. Every package was the
						occasion of much guessing and pinching and wondering, and the  mystery was almost as exciting as the opening would have been.
					The conversation often led into by-paths that were unexplored regions to the small
						listener in the background among the window-seat cushions: husbands and lovers and
						engagements, all the thrilling topics that a wedding in the family naturally suggests.
						Sometimes a whole morning would go by without her uttering a word, and Mrs. Sherman, who
						had heard what a talkative child she was, noticed her silence. Thinking it was probably
						dull for her, she reproached herself for not having provided some especial company for
						the entertainment of her youngest guest, and straightway set to work to do so.
					Next morning a box of pink slippers was sent out from Louisville on approval, and the
						bridesmaids and maid of honor, seated on the floor in Betty's room, tried to make up
						their minds which to choose,-- the kid or the satin ones. With each slim right foot shod
						in a fairy-like covering of shimmering satin, and each left one in daintiest pink kid,
						the three girls found it impossible to determine which was the prettier, and called upon
						Mary for her opinion.
					All in a flutter of importance, she was surveying  the
						pretty exhibit of outstretched feet, when Mom Beck appeared at the door with a message
						from Mrs. Sherman. There was a guest for Miss Mary in the library. Would she please go
						down at once. Her curiosity was almost as great as her reluctance to leave such an
						interesting scene. She stood in the middle of the floor, wringing her hands.
					"Oh, if I could only be in two places at once!" she exclaimed. "But maybe whoever it is
						won't stay long, and I can get back before you decide."
					Hurrying down the stairs, she went into the library, where Mrs. Sherman was waiting for
						her.
					"This is one of our little neighbors, Mary," she said, "Girlie Dinsmore."
					A small-featured child of twelve, with pale blue eyes and long, pale flaxen curls, came
						forward to meet her. To Mary's horror, she held a doll in her arms almost as large as
						herself, and on the table beside her stood a huge toy trunk.
					"I brought all of Evangeline's clothes with me," announced Girlie, as soon as Mrs.
						Sherman had left them to themselves. "'Cause I came to stay all morning, and I knew
						she'd have plenty of time to wear every dress she owns."
					Mary could not help the gasp of dismay that escaped her, thinking of that fascinating
						row of  pink slippers awaiting her up-stairs. From
						bridesmaids to doll-babies is a woful fall.
					"Where is your doll?" demanded Girlie.
					"Oh, I haven't any," said Mary, with a grown-up shrug of the shoulders. "I stopped
						playing with them ages ago."
					Then realizing what an impolite speech that was, she hastened to make amends by adding:
						"I sometimes dress Hazel Lee's, though. Hazel is one of my friends back in Arizona. Once
						I made a whole Indian costume for it like the squaws make. The moccasins were made out
						of the top of a kid glove, and beaded just like real ones."
					Girlie's pale eyes opened so wide at the mention of Indians that Mary almost forgot her
						disappointment at being called away from the big girls, and proceeded to make them open
						still wider with her tales of life on the desert. In a few moments she carried the trunk
						out on to a vine-covered side porch, where they made a wigwam out of two hammocks and a
						sunshade, and changed the waxen Evangeline into a blanketed squaw, with feathers in her
						blond Parisian hair.
					Mom Beck looked out several times, and finally brought them a set of Lloyd's old doll
						dishes and the daintiest of luncheons to spread on a low table.  There were olive sandwiches, frosted cakes, berries and cream, and bonbons
						and nuts in a silver dish shaped like a calla-lily.
					For the first two hours Mary really enjoyed being hostess, although now and then she
						wished she could slip up-stairs long enough to see what the girls were doing. But when
						she had told all the interesting tales she could think of, cleared away the remains of
						the feast, and played with the doll until she was sick of the sight of it, she began to
						be heartily tired of Girlie's companionship.
					"She's such a baby," she said to herself, impatiently. "She doesn't know much more than
						a kitten." It seemed to her that the third long hour never would drag to an end. But
						Girlie evidently enjoyed it. When the carriage came to take her home, she said,
						enthusiastically:
					"I've had such a good time this morning that I'm coming over every single day while
						you're here. I can't ask you over to our house 'cause my grandma is so sick it wouldn't
						be any fun. We just have to tiptoe around and not laugh out loud. But I don't mind doing
						all the visiting."
					"Oh, it will spoil everything! " groaned Mary to herself, as she ran up-stairs when
						Girlie was at last out of sight. She felt that nothing could  compensate her for the loss of the whole morning, and the thought of losing any more
						precious time in that way was unendurable.
					Mrs. Sherman met her in the hall, and pinched her cheek playfully as she passed her.
						"You make a charming little hostess, my dear," she said. "I looked out several times,
						and you were so absorbed with your play that it made me wish that I could be a little
						girl again, and join you with my poor old Nancy Blanche doll and my grand Amanthis that
						papa brought me from New Orleans. I'll have to resurrect them for you out of the attic,
						for I'm afraid it has been stupid for you here, with nobody your own age."
					"Oh, no'm! Don't! Please don't!" protested Mary, a worried look on her honest little
						face. She was about to add, "I can't bear dolls any more. I only played with them to
						please Girlie," when Lloyd came out of her room with a letter.
					"It's from the bride-to-be, mothah," she called, waving it gaily.
					"She'll be heah day aftah to-morrow, so we can begin to put the finishing touches to
						her room. The day she comes I'm going to take the girls ovah to Rollington to get some
						long sprays of bride's wreath. Mrs. Crisp has two big bushes of it, white  as snow. It will look so cool and lovely, everything in the
						room all green and white."
					Mary stole away to her room, ready to cry. If every morning had to be spent with that
						tiresome Dinsmore child, she might as well have stayed on the desert.
					"I simply have to get rid of her in some way," she mused. "It won't do to snub her, and
						I don't know any other way. I wish I could see Holland for about five minutes. He'd
						think of a plan."
					So absorbed was she in her problem that she forgot to ask whether the kid or the satin
						slippers had been chosen, and she went down to lunch still revolving her trouble in her
						mind. On the dining-room wall opposite her place at table were two fine old engravings,
						illustrating the fable of the famous dinners given by the Fox and the Stork. In the
						first the stork strove vainly to fill its bill at the flat dish from which the fox
						lapped eagerly, while in the companion picture the fox sat by disconsolate while the
						stork dipped into the high slim pitcher, which the hungry guest could not reach.
					Mary had noticed the pictures in a casual way every time she took a seat at the table,
						for the beast and the bird were old acquaintances. She had learned La Fontaine's version
						of the fable one time  to recite at school. To-day, with
						the problem in her mind of how to rid herself of an unwelcome guest, they suddenly took
						on a new meaning.
					"I'll do just the way the stork did," she thought, gleefully. "This morning Girlie had
						everything her way, and we played little silly baby games till I felt as flat as the
						dish that fox is eating out of. But she had a beautiful time. To-morrow morning I'm
						going to be stork, and make my conversation so deep she can't get her little baby mind
						into it at all. I'll be awfully polite, but I'll hunt up the longest words I can find in
						the dictionary, and talk about the books I've read, and she'll have such a stupid time
						she won't want to come again."
					The course of action once settled upon, Mary fell to work with her usual energy. While
						the girls were taking their daily siesta, she dressed early and went down into the
						library. If it had not been for the fear of missing something, she would have spent much
						of her time in that attractive room. Books looked down so invitingly from the many
						shelves. All the June magazines lay on the library table, their pages still uncut.
						Everybody had been too busy to look at them. She hesitated a moment over the tempting
						array, but  remembering her purpose, grimly passed them by
						and opened the big dictionary.
					Rob found her still poring over it, pencil and paper in hand, when he looked into the
						room an hour later.
					"What's up now?" he asked.
					She evaded his question at first, but, afraid that he would tease her before the girls
						about her thirst for knowledge and her study of the dictionary, and that that might lead
						to the thwarting of her plans, she suddenly decided to take him into her confidence.
					"Well," she began, solemnly, "you know mostly I loathe dolls. Sometimes I do dress
						Hazel Lee's for her, but I don't like to play with them regularly any more as I used to,
						-- talk for them and all that. But Girlie Dinsmore was here this morning, and I had to
						do it because she is company. She had such a good time that she said she was coming over
						here every single morning while I'm here. I just can't have my lovely visit spoiled that
						way. The bride is coming day after to-morrow, and she'll be opening her presents and
						showing her trousseau to the girls, and I wouldn't miss it for anything. So I've made up
						my mind I'll be just as polite as possible, but I'll do as the stork did  in the fable; make my entertainment so deep she won't enjoy
						it. I'm hunting up the longest words I can find and learning their definitions, so that
						I can use them properly."
					Rob, looking over her shoulder, laughed to see the list she had chosen:
							"Indefatigability, Juxtaposition, Loquaciousness, Pabulum, Peregrinate,
							Longevous."

					"You see," explained Mary, "sometimes there is a quotation after the word from some
						author, so I've copied a lot of them to use, instead of making up sentences myself.
						Here's one from Shakespeare about alacrity. And here's one from Arbuthnot, whoever he
						was, that will make her stare."
					She traced the sentence with her forefinger, for Rob's glance to follow: "Instances of longevity are chiefly among the abstemious."
					"Girlie won't have any more idea of what I'm talking about than a jay-bird."
					To Mary's astonishment, the laugh with which Rob received her confidence was so long
						and loud it ended in a whoop of amusement, and when he  had
						caught his breath he began again in such an infectious way that the girls up-stairs
						heard it and joined in. Then Lloyd leaned over the banister to call:
					"What's the mattah, Rob? You all seem to be having a mighty funny time down there. Save
						your circus for us. We'll be down in a few minutes."
					"This is just a little private side-show of Mary's and mine," answered Rob, going off
						into another peal of laughter at sight of Mary's solemn face. There was nothing funny in
						the situation to her whatsoever.
					"Oh, don't tell, Mister Rob," she begged. "Please don't tell. Joyce might think it was
						impolite, and would put a stop to it. It seems funny to you, but when you think of my
						whole lovely visit spoiled that way-- "
					She stopped abruptly, so much in earnest that her voice broke and her eyes filled with
						tears.
					Instantly Rob's laughter ceased, and he begged her pardon in such a grave, kind way,
						assuring her that her confidence should be respected, that her admiration of him went up
						several more degrees. When the girls came down, he could not be prevailed upon to tell
						them what had sent him off into  such fits of laughter.
						"Just Mary's entertaining remarks," was all he would say, looking across at her with a
						meaning twinkle in his eyes. She immediately retired into the background as soon as the
						older girls appeared, but she sat admiring every word Rob said, and watching every
						movement.
					"He's the very nicest man I ever saw," she said to herself. "He treats me as if I were
						grown up, and I really believe he likes to hear me talk."
					Once when they were arranging for a tennis game for the next morning, he crossed the
						room with an amused smile, to say to her in a low aside: "I've thought of something to
						help along the stork's cause. Bring the little fox over to the tennis-court to watch the
						game. If she doesn't find that sufficiently stupid, and you run short of big words, read
						aloud to her, and tell her that is what you intend to do every day."
					Such a pleased, gratified smile flashed over Mary's face that Betty exclaimed,
						curiously: "I certainly would like to know what mischief you two are planning. You laugh
						every time you look at each other."
					Girlie Dinsmore arrived promptly next morning, trunk, doll, and all, expecting to
						plunge at once into an absorbing game of lady-come-to-see. But Mary  so impressed her with the honor that had been conferred upon them by Mr.
						Moore's special invitation to watch the tennis game that she was somewhat bewildered.
						She dutifully followed her resolute hostess to the tennis-court, and took a seat beside
						her with Evangeline clasped in her arms. Neither of the children had watched a game
						before, and Girlie, not being able to understand a single move, soon found it
						insufferably stupid. But Mary became more and more interested in watching a tall,
						athletic figure in outing flannels and white shoes, who swung his racket with the
						deftness of an expert, and who flashed an amused smile at her over the net occasionally,
						as if he understood the situation and was enjoying it with her.
					Several times when Rob's playing brought him near the seat where the two children sat,
						he went into unaccountable roars of laughter, for which the amazed girls scolded him
						soundly, when he refused to explain. One time was when he overheard a scrap of
						conversation. Girlie had suggested a return to the porch and the play-house, and Mary
						responded, graciously:
					"Oh, we did all that yesterday morning, and I think that even in the matter of playing
						dolls one ought to be abstemious. Don't you? You know 
						

							"A TALL, ATHLETIC FIGURE IN OUTING FLANNELS"



						
						
						 Arbuthnot says that 'instances of longevity are chiefly
						among the abstemious,' and I certainly want to be longevous."
					A startled expression crept into Girlie's pale blue eyes, but she only sat back farther
						on the seat and tightened her clasp on Evangeline. The next time Rob sauntered within
						hearing distance, a discussion of literature was in progress, Mary was asking:
					"Have you ever read 'Old Curiosity Shop?'"
					The flaxen curls shook slowly in the motion that betokened she had not.
					"Nothing of Dickens or Scott or Irving or Cooper?"
					Still the flaxen curls shook nothing but no.
					"Then what have you read, may I ask?" The superior tone of Mary's question made it seem
						that she was twenty years older than the child at her side, instead of only two.
					"I like the Dotty Dimple books," finally admitted Girlie. "Mamma read me all of them
						and several of the Prudy books, and I have read half of 'Flaxie Frizzle' my own
						self."
					"Oh!" exclaimed Mary, in a tone expressing enlightenment. "I see! Nothing but juvenile books! No wonder that, with such mental
						pabulum, you don't care for anything but dolls! Now  when I
						was your age, I had read 'The Vicar of Wakefield' and ' Pride and Prejudice' and
						Leatherstocking Tales, and all sorts of things. Probably that is why I lost my taste for
						dolls so early. Wouldn't you like me to read to you awhile every morning ?"
					The offer was graciousness itself, but it implied such a lack on Girlie's part that she
						felt vaguely uncomfortable. She sat digging the toe of her slipper against the leg of
						the bench.
					"I don't know," she stammered finally. "Maybe I can't come often. It makes me
						wigglesome to sit still too long and listen."
					"We might try it this morning to see how you like it," persisted Mary. "I brought a
						copy of Longfellow out from the house, and thought you might like to hear the poem of
						'Evangeline,' as long as your doll is named that."
					Rob heard no more, for the game called him to another part of the court, but Mary's
						plan was a success. When the Dinsmore carriage came, Girlie announced that she wouldn't
						be over the next day, and maybe not the one after that. She didn't know for sure when
						she could come.
					Rob stayed to lunch. As he passed Mary on the steps, he stooped to the level of her ear
						to say in  a laughing undertone: "Congratulations, Miss
						Stork. I see your plan worked grandly."
					Elated by her success and the feeling of good-comradeship which this little secret with
						Rob gave her, Mary skipped up on to the porch, well pleased with herself. But the next
						instant there was a curious change in her feeling. Lloyd, tall and graceful in her
						becoming tennis suit, was standing on the steps taking leave of some of the players.
						With hospitable insistence she was urging them to stay to lunch, and there was something
						in the sweet graciousness of the young hostess that made Mary uncomfortable. She felt
						that she had been weighed in the balance and found wanting. The Princess never would
						have stooped to treat a guest as she had treated Girlie. Her standard of hospitality was
						too high to allow such a breach of hospitality.
					Mary had carried her point, but she felt that if Lloyd knew how she had played stork,
						she would consider her ill-bred. The thought worried her for days.


					

				
				



					CHAPTER VII.
						THE COMING OF THE BRIDE

					EARLY in the June morning Mary awoke, feeling as if it were
						Christmas or Fourth of July or some great gala occasion. She lay there a moment, trying
						to think what pleasant thing was about to happen. Then she remembered that it was the
						day on which the bride was to arrive. Not only that, --before the sun went down, the
						best man would be at The Locusts also.
					She raised herself on her elbow to look at Joyce, in the white bed across from hers.
						She was sound asleep, so Mary snuggled down on her pillow again, and lay quite still. If
						Joyce had been awake, Mary would have begun a long conversation about Phil Tremont.
						Instead, she began recalling to herself the last time she had seen him. It was three
						years ago, down by the beehives, and she had had no idea he was going away until he came
						to the Wigwam to bid them all good-by. And Joyce and Lloyd were away, so he had left a
						message for  them with her. She thought it queer then, and
						she had wondered many times since why his farewell to the girls should have been a
						message about the old gambling god, Alaka. She remembered every word of it, even the
						tones of his voice as he said: "Try to remember just these words, please, Mary. Tell
						them that 'Alaka has lost his precious turquoises, but he will win them
							back again some day.' Can you remember to say just that?"
					He must have thought she wasn't much more than a baby to repeat it so carefully to her
						several times, as if he were teaching her a lesson. Well, to be sure, she was only
						eleven then, and she had almost cried when she begged him not to go away, and insisted
						on knowing when he was coming back. He had looked away toward old Camelback Mountain
						with a strange, sorry look on his face as he answered:
					"Not till I've learned your lesson-- to be 'inflexible'. When I'm strong enough to keep
						stiff in the face of any temptation, then I'll come back, little Vicar." Then he had
						stooped and kissed her hastily on both cheeks, and started off down the road, with her
						watching him through a blur of tears, because it seemed that all the good times in the
						world had suddenly come to an end. Away  down the road he
						had turned to look back and wave his hat, and she had caught up her white sunbonnet and
						swung it high by its one limp string.
					Afterward, when she went back to the swing by the beehives, she recalled all the old
						stories she had ever heard of knights who went out into the world to seek their
						fortunes, and waved farewell to some ladye fair in her watch-tower. She felt, in a vague
						way, that she had been bidden farewell by a brave knight errant. Although she was
						burning with curiosity when she delivered the message about the turquoises and Alaka,
						and wondered why Lloyd and Joyce exchanged such meaning glances, something kept her from
						asking questions, and she had gone on wondering all these years what it meant, and why
						there was such a sorry look in his. eyes when he gazed out toward the old Camelback
						Mountain. Now, in the wisdom of her fourteen years, she began to suspect what the
						trouble had been, and resolved to ask Joyce for the solution of the mystery.
					Now that Phil was twenty years old and doing a man's work in the world, she supposed
						she ought to call him Mr. Tremont, or, at least, Mr. Phil. Probably in his travels, with
						all the important  things that a civil engineer has to
						think of, he had forgotten her and the way he had romped with her at the Wigwam, and how
						he had saved her life the time the Indian chased her. Being the bridegroom's brother and
						best man at the wedding, he would scarcely notice her. Or, if he did cast a glance in
						her direction, she had grown so much probably he never would recognize her. Still, if he
							should remember her, she wanted to appear at her best advantage, and
						she began considering what was the best her wardrobe afforded.
					She lay there some time trying to decide whether she should be all in white when she
						met him, or in the dress with the little sprigs of forget-me-nots sprinkled over it.
						White was appropriate for all occasions, still the forget-me-nots would be suggestive.
						Then she remembered her mother's remark about that shade of blue being a trying one for
						her to wear. That recalled Mom Beck's prescription for beautifying the complexion.
						Nothing, so the old colored woman declared, was so good for one's face as washing it in
						dew before the sun had touched the grass, at the same time repeating a hoodoo rhyme.
						Mary had been intending to try it, but never could waken early enough.
					Now it was only a little after five. Slipping out  of bed,
						she drew aside the curtain. Smoke was rising from the chimney down in the servants'
						quarters, and the sun was streaming red across the lawn. But over by the side of the
						house, in the shadow of Hero's monument, the dew lay sparkling like diamonds on the
						daisies and clover that bloomed there-- the only place on the lawn where the sun had not
						yet touched.
					Thrusting her bare feet into the little red Turkish slippers beside her bed, Mary
						caught up her kimono lying over a chair. It was a long, Oriental affair, Cousin Kate's
						Christmas gift; a mixture of gay colors and a pattern of Japanese fans, and so beautiful
						in Mary's eyes that she had often bemoaned the fact that she was not a Japanese lady so
						that she could wear the gorgeous garment in public. It seemed too beautiful to be wasted
						on the privacy of her room.
					Fastening it together with three of Joyce's little gold pins, she stole down the
						stairway. Mom Beck was busy in the dining-room, and the doors and windows stood open.
						Stepping out of one of the long French windows that opened on the side porch, Mary ran
						across to the monument. It was a glorious June morning. The myriads of roses were doubly
						sweet with the dew in their hearts.  A Kentucky cardinal
						flashed across the lawn ahead of her, darting from one locust-tree to another like a bit
						of live flame.
					The little red Turkish slippers chased lightly over the grass till they reached the
						shadow of the monument. Then stooping, Mary passed her hands over the daisies and
						clover, catching up the dewdrops in her pink palms, and rubbing them over her face as
						she repeated Mom Beck's charm: 
							
								Beauty come, freckles go!
								Dewdops, make me white as snow!"
							
						

					The dew on her face felt so cool and fresh that she tried it again, then several times
						more. Then she stooped over farther and buried her face in the wet grass, repeating the
						rhyme again with her eyes shut and in the singsong chant in which she often intoned
						things, without giving heed to what she was uttering. Suddenly, in the midst of this
						joyful abandon, an amused exclamation made her lift her head a little and open her
						eyes.
					"By all the powers! What are you up to now, Miss Stork?"
					Mary's head came up out of the wet grass with a jerk. Then her face burned an
						embarrassed crimson, for striding along the path toward her  was Bob Moore, cutting across lots from Oaklea. He was bareheaded, and swinging along
						as if it were a pleasure merely to be alive on such a morning.
					She sprang to her feet, so mortified at being caught in this secret quest for beauty
						that her embarrassment left her speechless. Then, remembering the way she was dressed,
						she sank down on the grass again, and pulled her kimono as far as possible over the
						little bare feet in the red slippers.
					There was no need for her to answer his question. The rhyme she had been chanting was
						sufficient explanation.
					"I thought you said," he began, teasingly, "that you were to have your innings when you were a grandmother; that you didn't care for beauty now if
						you could have a face like a benediction then."
					"Oh, I didn't say that I didn't care!" cried Mary, crouching closer against the
						monument, and putting her arm across her face to hide it. "It's because I care so much
						that I'm always doing silly things and getting caught. I just wish the earth could open
						and swallow me!" she wailed.
					Her head was bowed now till it was resting on her knees. Rob looked down on the little
						bunch of  misery in the gay kimono, thinking he had never
						seen such a picture of woe. He could not help smiling, but he felt mean at having been
						the cause of her distress, and tried to think of something comforting to say.
					"Sakes alive, child! That's nothing to feel bad about. Bathing your face in May-day dew
						is an old English custom that the prettiest girls in the Kingdom used to follow. I ought
						to apologize for intruding, but I didn't suppose any one was up. I just came over to say
						that some business for grandfather will take me to town on the earliest train, so that I
						can't be on hand when the best man arrives. I didn't want to wake up the entire
						household by telephoning, so I thought I'd step over and leave a message with Alec or
						some of them. If you'll tell Lloyd, I'll be much obliged."
					"All right, I'll tell her," answered Mary, in muffled tones, without raising her head
						from her knees. She was battling back the tears, and felt that she could never face the
						world again. She waited till she was sure Rob was out of sight, and then, springing up,
						ran for the shelter of her room. As she stole up the stairs, her eyes were so blinded
						with tears that she could hardly see the steps; tears of humiliation, that Rob, of all
						people, whose good  opinion she valued, should have
						discovered her in a situation that made her appear silly and vain.
					Luckily for the child's peace of mind, Betty had also wakened early that morning, and
						was taking advantage of the quiet hours before breakfast to attend to her
						letter-writing. Through her open door she caught sight of the woebegone little figure
						slipping past, and the next instant Mary found herself in the white and gold room with
						Betty's arm around her, and her tearful face pressed against a sympathetic shoulder.
						Little by little Betty coaxed from her the cause of her tears, then sat silent, patting
						her hand, as she wondered what she could say to console her.
					To the older girl it seemed a matter to smile over, and the corners of her mouth did
						dimple a little, until she realized that to Mary's supersensitive nature this was no
						trifle, and that she was suffering keenly from it.
					"Oh, I'm so ashamed," sobbed Mary." I never want to look Mister Rob in the face again.
						I'd rather go home and miss the wedding than meet him any more."
					"Nonsense," said Betty, lightly. "Now you're making a mountain out of a mole-hill.
						Probably Rob will never give the matter a second thought, 
						and he would be amazed if he thought you did. I've heard you say you wished you could be
						just like Lloyd. Do you know, her greatest charm to me is that she never seems to think
						of the impression she is making on other people. Now, if she should decide that her
						complexion would be better for a wash in the dew, she would go ahead and wash it, no
						matter who caught her at it, and, first thing you know, all the Valley would be
						following her example.
					"I'm going to preach you a little sermon now, because I've found out your one fault. It
						isn't very big yet, but, if you don't nip it in the bud, it will be like Meddlesome
						Matty's,-- 
							
								"'Which, like a cloud before the skies,
								Hid all her better qualities.'
							
						

					"You are self-conscious, Mary. Always thinking about the impression you are making on
						people, and so eager to please that it makes you miserable if you think you fall short
						of any of their standards. I knew a girl at school who let her sensitiveness to other
						people's opinions run away with her. She was so anxious for her friends to be pleased
						with her that she couldn't be natural. If anybody glanced in the direction of her head,
						she  immediately began to fix her side-combs, or if they
						seemed to be noticing her dress, she felt her belt and looked down at herself to see if
						anything was wrong. Half the time they were not looking at her at all, and not even
						giving her a thought. And I've known her to agonize for days over some trifle, some
						remark she had made or some one had made to her, that every one but her had forgotten.
						She developed into a dreadful bore, because she never could forget herself, and was
						always looking at her affairs through a magnifying-glass.
					"Now if you should keep out of Rob's way after this, and act as if you had done
						something to be ashamed of, which you have not, don't you see that your very actions
						would remind him of what you want him to forget? But if when you meet him you are your
						own bright, cheerful, friendly little self, this morning's scene will fade into a dim
						background."
					Only half-convinced, Mary nodded that she understood, but still proceeded to wipe her
						eyes at intervals.
					"Then, there's another thing," continued Betty. "If you sit and brood over your
						mortification, it will spread all over your sky like a black cloud, till it will seem
						bigger than any of the good times  you have had. In the
						dear old garden at Warwick Hall there is a sun-dial that has this inscription on it, 'I
						only mark the hours that shine.' So I am going to give you that as a text. Now, dear,
						that is the end of my sermon, but here is the application."
					She pointed to a row of little white books on the shelf above her desk, all bound in
						kid, with her initials stamped on the back in gold. "Those are my good-times books. 'I
						only mark the hours that shine' in them, and when things go wrong and I get discouraged
						over my mistakes, I glance through them and find that there's lots more to laugh over
						than cry about, and I'm going to recommend the same course to you. Godmother gave me the
						first volume when I came to the first house-party, and the little record gave me so much
						pleasure that I've gone on adding volume after volume. Suppose you try it, dear. Will
						you, if I give you a book?"
					"Yes," answered Mary, who had heard of these books before, and longed for a peep into
						them. She had her wish now, for, taking them down from the shelf, Betty read an extract
						here and there, to illustrate what she meant. Presently, to their astonishment, they
						heard Mom Beck knocking at Lloyd's door to awaken her, and Betty realized with  a start that she had been reading over an hour. Her letters
						were unanswered, but she had accomplished something better. Mary's tears had dried, as
						she listened to these accounts of their frolics at boarding-school and their adventures
						abroad, and in her interest in them her own affairs had taken their proper proportion.
						She was no longer heart-broken over having been discovered by Rob, and she was
						determined to overcome the sensitiveness and self-consciousness which Betty had pointed
						out as her great fault.
					As she rose to go, Betty opened a drawer in her desk and took out a square, fat diary,
						bound in red morocco. "One of the girls gave me this last Christmas," she said. "I never
						have used it, because I want to keep my journals uniform in size and binding, and I'll
						be so glad to have you take it and start a record of your own, if you will."
					"Oh, I'll begin this very morning!" cried Mary, in delight, throwing her arms around
						Betty's neck with an impulsive kiss, and trying to express her thanks.
					"Then wait till I write my text in it," said Betty, "so that it will always recall my
						sermon. I've talked to you as if I were your grandmother, haven't I?"


					



					"You've made me feel a lot more comfortable," answered Mary, humbly, with another kiss
						as Betty handed her the book. On the fly-leaf she had written her own name and Mary's
						and the inscription borne by the old sun-dial in Warwick Hall garden: 
							"I only mark the hours that shine."
						

					It was after lunch before Mary found a moment in which to begin her record, and then it
						was in unconscious imitation of Betty's style that she wrote the events of the morning.
						Probably she would not have gone into details and copied whole conversations if she had
						not heard the extracts from Betty's diaries. Betty was writing for practice as well as
						with the purpose of storing away pleasant memories, so it was often with the spirit of
						the novelist that she made her entries.
					"It seems hopeless to go back to the beginning," wrote Mary, "and tell all that has
						happened so far, so I shall begin with this morning. Soon after breakfast we went to
						Rollington in the carriage, Joyce and Betty and I on the back seat, and Lloyd in front
						with the coachman. And Mrs. Crisp cut down nearly a whole bushful of bridal wreath to
						decorate Eugenia's room with. When we got back May Lily had just finished putting up
						fresh  curtains in the room, almost as fine and thin as
						frost-work. The furniture is all white, and the walls a soft, cool green, and the rugs
						like that dark velvety moss that grows in the deepest woods. When we had finished
						filling the vases and jardinires, the room itself all snowy white and green made you
						think of a bush of bridal wreath.
					"We were barely through with that when it was time for Lloyd and Aunt Elizabeth to go
						to the station to meet Eugenia. There wasn't room for the rest of us in the carriage, so
						Betty and Joyce and I hung out of the windows and watched for them, and Betty and Joyce
						talked about the other time Eugenia came, when they walked up and down under the locusts
						waiting for her and wondering what she would be like. When she did come, they were
						half-afraid of her, she was so stylish and young-ladified, and ordered her maid about in
						such a superior way.
					"Betty said it was curious how snippy girls of that age can be sometimes, and then turn
						out to be such fine women afterward, when they outgrow their snippiness and
						snobbishness. Then she told us a lot we had never heard about the school Eugenia went to
						in Germany to take a training in housekeeping, and so many interesting things about  her that I was all in a quiver of curiosity to see her.
					"When we heard the carriage coming, Betty and Joyce tore down-stairs to meet her, but I
						just hung farther out of the window. And, oh, but she was pretty and stylish and tall --
						and just as Betty had said, patrician-looking, with her dusky hair and
						big dark eyes. She is the Spanish type of beauty. She swept into the house so grandly,
						with her maid following with her satchels (the same old Eliot who was here before), that
						I thought for a moment maybe she was as stuck-up as ever. But when she saw her old room,
						she acted just like a happy little girl, ready to cry and laugh in the same breath
						because everything had been made so beautiful for her coming. While she was still in the
						midst of admiring everything, she sat right down on the bed and tore off her gloves, so
						that she could open the queer-looking parcel she carried. I had thought maybe it was
						something too valuable to put in the satchels, but it was only a new kind of egg-beater
						she had seen in a show-window on her way from one depot to another. You would have
						thought from the way she carried on that she had found a wonderful treasure. And in the
						midst of showing us that she exclaimed:


					



					"'Oh, girls, what do you think? I met the dearest old lady on the sleeper, and she gave
						me a receipt for a new kind of salad. That makes ten kinds of salad that I know how to
						make. Oh, I just can't wait to tell you about our little love of a house! It's all
						furnished and waiting for us. Papa and I were out to look all over it the day I started,
						and everything was in place but the refrigerator, and Stuart had already ordered one
						sent out.'
					"Then Lloyd opened the closet door and called her attention to the great pile of
						packages waiting to be opened. She flew at them and called us all to help, and for a
						little while Mom Beck and Eliot were kept busy picking up strings and wrapping-paper and
						cotton and excelsior. When we were through, the bed and the chairs and mantel and two
						extra tables that had been brought in were piled with the most beautiful things I ever
						saw. I never dreamed there were such lovely things in the world as some of the beaten
						silver and hand-painted china and Tiffany glass. There was a jewelled fan, and all sorts
						of things in gold and mother-of-pearl, and there was some point lace that she said was
						more suitable for a queen than a young  American girl. Her
						father has so many wealthy friends, and they all sent presents.
					"Opening the bundles was so much fun,-- like a continual surprise-party, Betty said, or
						a hundred Christmases rolled into one. Between times when Eugenia wasn't exclaiming over
						how lovely everything was, she was telling us how the house was furnished, and what a
						splendid fellow Stuart is, and how wild she is for us to know him. I had never heard a
						bride talk before, and she was so happy that somehow it made you feel
						that getting married was the most beautiful thing in the world.
					"One of the first things she did when she opened her suit-case was to take out a
						picture of Stuart. It was a miniature on ivory in a locket of Venetian gold, because it
						was in Venice he had proposed to her. After she had shown it to us, she put it in the
						centre of her dressing-table, with the white flowers all around it, as if it had been
						some sort of shrine. There was a look in her eyes that made me think of the picture in
						Betty's room of a nun laying lilies on an altar.
					"It is after luncheon now, and she has gone to her room to rest awhile. So have the
						other girls. But I couldn't sleep. The days are slipping by too fast for me to waste any
						time that way."


					



					The house was quiet when Mary closed her journal. Joyce was still asleep on the bed,
						and through the open door she could see Betty, tilted back in a big chair, nodding over
						a magazine. She concluded it would be a good time to dash off a letter to Holland, but
						with a foresight which prompted her to be ready for any occasion, she decided to dress
						first for the evening. Tiptoeing around the room, she brushed her hair in the new way
						Mom Beck had taught her, and, taking out her prettiest white dress, proceeded to array
						herself in honor of the best man's coming. Then she rummaged in the tray of her trunk
						till she found her pink coral necklace and fan-chain, and, with a sigh of satisfaction
						that she was ready for any emergency, seated herself at her letter-writing.
					She had written only a page, however, when the clock on the stairs chimed four. The
						deep tones echoing through the hall sent Lloyd bouncing up from her couch, her hair
						falling over her shoulders and her long kimono tripping her at every step, as she ran
						into Joyce's room.
					"What are we going to do?" she cried in dismay. "I ovahslept myself, and now it's foah
						o'clock, and Phil's train due in nine minutes. The carriage is at the doah and none of
						us dressed  to go to meet him. I wrote that the entiah
						bridal party would be there."
					Joyce sprang up in a dazed sort of way, and began putting on her slippers. The
						bridesmaids had talked so much about the grand welcome the best man was to receive on
						his entrance to the Valley that, half-awake as she was, she could not realize that it
						was too late to carry out their plans.
					"Oh, it's no use trying to get ready now," said Lloyd, in a disappointed tone. "We
						couldn't dress and get to the station in time to save ou' lives." Then her glance fell
						on Mary, sitting at her desk in all her brave array of pink ribbons and corals.
					"Why, Mary can go!" she cried, in a relieved tone. "I had forgotten that she knows Phil
						as well as we do. Run on, that's a deah! Don't stop for a hat! You won't need it in the
						carriage. Tell him that you're the maid of honah on this occasion!"
					It was all over so quickly, the rapid drive down the avenue, the quick dash up to the
						station as the train came puffing past, that Mary had little time to rehearse the part
						she had been bidden to play. She was so afraid that Phil would not recognize her that
						she wondered if she ought not to begin by introducing herself. She pictured the scene in
							 her mind as they rolled along, unconscious that she was
						smiling and bowing into empty air, as she rehearsed the speech with which she intended
						to impress him. She would be as dignified and gracious as the Princess herself; not at
						all like the hoydenish child of eleven who had waved her sunbonnet at him in parting
						three years before.
					The sight of the train as it slowed up sent a queer inward quiver of expectancy through
						her, and her cheeks were flushed with eagerness as she leaned forward watching for him.
						With a nervous gesture, she put her hand up to her hair-ribbons to make sure that her
						bows were in place, and then clutched the coral necklace. Then Betty's sermon flashed
						across her mind, and the thought that she had done just like the self-conscious girl at
						school brought a distressed pucker between her eyebrows. But the next instant she forgot
						all about it. She forgot the princess-like way in which she was to step from the
						carriage, the dignity with which she was to offer Phil her hand, and the words wherewith
						she was to welcome him. She had caught sight of a wide-brimmed gray hat over the heads
						of the crowd, and a face, bronzed and handsome, almost as dear in its familiar outlines
						as Jack's or Holland's. Her carefully rehearsed  actions
						flew to the winds, as, regardless of the strangers all about, she sprang from the
						carriage and ran along bareheaded in the sun. And Phil, glancing around him for the
						bridal party that was to meet him, was surprised beyond measure when this little
						apparition from the Arizona Wigwam caught him by the hand.
					"Bless my soul, it's the little Vicar!" he exclaimed. "Why, it's like getting back home
						to see you! And how you've grown, and how really civilized you
						are!"
					So he had remembered her. He was glad to see her. With her face
						glowing and her feet fairly dancing, she led him to the carriage, pouring out a flood of
						information as they went, about The Locusts and the wedding and the people they passed,
						and how lovely everything was in the Valley, till he said, with a twinkle in his eyes:
						"You're the same enthusiastic little soul that you used to be, aren't you? I hope you'll
						speak as good a word for me at The Locusts as you did at Lee's ranch. I am taking it as
						a good omen that you were sent to conduct me into this happy land. You made a success of
						it that other time; somehow I'm sure you will this time."
					All the way to the house Mary sat and beamed  on him as
						she talked, thinking how much older he looked, and yet how friendly and brotherly he
						still was. She introduced him to Mrs. Sherman with a proud, grandmotherly air of
						proprietorship, and took a personal pride in every complimentary thing said about him
						afterward, as if she were responsible for his good behavior, and was pleased with the
						way he was "showing off."
					Rob came over as usual in the evening. Phil was not there at first. He and Eugenia were
						strolling about the grounds. Mary, sitting in a hammock on the porch, was impatient for
						them to come in, for she wanted to see what impression he would make on Rob, whom she
						had been thinking lately was the nicest man she ever met. She wanted to see them
						together to contrast the two, for they seemed wonderfully alike in size and general
						appearance. In actions, too, Mary thought, remembering how they both had teased her.
					She had not seen Rob since their unhappy encounter early that morning, when she had
						been so overcome with mortification; and if Betty had not been on the porch also, she
						would have found it hard to stay and face him. But she wanted to show Betty that she had
						taken her little sermon to heart. Then, besides, the affair did not look so  big, after all that had happened during this exciting
						day.
					As they waited, Joyce joined them, and presently they heard Lloyd coming through the
						hall. She was singing a verse from Ingelow's "Songs of Seven:" 
							
								"'There is no dew left on the daisies and clover.
								There is no rain left in the heaven.
								I've said my seven times over and over --
								Seven times one are seven.'"
							
						

					Then she began again, "'There is no dew left on the daisies and clover -'" Rob turned
						to Mary. "I wonder why," he said, meaningly.
					The red flashed up into Mary's face and she made no audible answer, but Joyce, turning
						suddenly, saw to her horror that Mary had made a saucy face at him and thrust out her
						tongue like a naughty child.
					"Why, Mary Ware! " she began, in a shocked tone, but Betty interrupted with a laugh.
						"Let her alone, Joyce; he richly deserved it. He was teasing her."
					"Betty was right," thought Mary afterward. It was better to make fun
						of his teasing than to run off and cry because he happened to mention  the subject. If I had done that, he never would have said
						to Betty afterward that I was the jolliest little thing that ever came over the pike.
						How much better this day has ended than it began."


					

				

				
					 CHAPTER VIII.
						AT THE BEECHES

					THE invitation came by telephone while the family was at breakfast
						next morning. Would the house-party at The Locusts join the house-party at The Beeches
						in giving a series of tableaux at their lawn fte that night? If so, would the
						house-party at The Locusts proceed immediately to The Beeches to spend the morning in
						the rehearsing of tableaux, the selection of costumes, the manufacture of paper roses,
						and the pleasure of each other's honorable company in the partaking of a picnic-lunch
						under the trees ?
					There was an enthusiastic acceptance from all except Eugenia, who, tired from her long
						journey and with many important things to attend to, begged to be left behind for a
						quiet day with her cousin Elizabeth. Mary, tormented by a fear that maybe she was not
						included in the invitation, since she was a child, and all the guests at The Beeches
						were grown, could scarcely finish her breakfast in  her
						excitement. But long before the girls were ready to start, her fears were set at rest by
						the arrival of Elise Walton in her pony-cart. She wanted Mary to drive to one of the
						neighbors with her, to borrow a bonnet and shawl over fifty years old, which were to
						figure in one of the tableaux.
					Elise had not been attracted by Mary's appearance the day she met her in the restaurant
						and was not sure that she would care for her. It was only her hospitable desire to be
						nice to a guest in the Valley that made her comply so willingly to her mother's request
						to show her some especial attention. Mary, spoiled by the companionship of the older
						girls for the society of those her own age, was afraid that Elise would be a repetition
						of Girlie Dinsmore; but before they had gone half a mile together they were finding each
						other so vastly entertaining that by the time they reached The| Beeches they felt like
						old friends.
					It was Mary's first sight of the place, except the glimpse she had caught through the
						trees the morning they passed on their way to Rollington. As the pony-cart rattled up
						the wide carriage drive which swept around in front of the house, she felt as if she
						were riding straight into a beautiful old Southern story of ante-bellum days. Back into
						the times  when people had leisure to make hospitality
						their chief business in life, and could afford for every day to be a holiday. When there
						were always guests under the spreading rooftree of the great house, and laughter and
						plenty in the servants' quarters. The sound of a banjo and a negro melody somewhere in
						the background heightened the effect of that illusion.
					The wide front porch seemed full of people. Allison and Kitty looked up with a word of
						greeting as the two girls came up, one carrying the bonnet and the other the shawl, but
						nobody seemed to think it necessary to introduce Elise's little friend to the other
						guests. It would have been an embarrassing ordeal for her, for there were so many
						strangers. Mary recognized the two young lieutenants.
					With the help of a pretty brunette in white, whom Elise whispered was Miss Bonham from
						Lexington, they were rigging up some kind of a coat of mail for Lieutenant Logan to wear
						in one of the tableaux. Ranald, with a huge sheet of cardboard and the library shears,
						was manufacturing a pair of giant scissors, half as long as himself, which a blonde in
						blue was waiting to cover with tin foil. She was singing coon songs while she  waited, to the accompaniment of a mandolin, and in such a
						gay, rollicking way, that every one was keeping time either with hand or foot.
					"That is Miss Bernice Howe," answered Elise, in response to Mary's whispered question.
						"She lives here in the Valley. And that's Malcolm MacIntyre, my cousin, who is sitting
						beside her. That's his brother Keith helping Aunt Allison with the programme cards."
					Mary stared at the two young men, vaguely disappointed. They were the two little
						knights of Kentucky, but they were grown up, like all the other heroes and heroines she
						had looked forward to meeting. She told herself that she might have expected it, for she
						knew that Malcolm was Joyce's age; but she had associated them so long with the handsome
						little fellows in the photograph Lloyd had, clad in the knightly costumes of King
						Arthur's time, that it was hard to recognize them now, in these up-to-date, American
						college boys, who had long ago discarded their knightly disguises.
					"And that," said Elise, as another young man came out of the house with a sheet of
						music in his hand for Miss Howe, "is Mister Alex Shelby. He lives in Louisville, but he
						comes out to the Valley  all the time to see Bernice. I'll
						tell you about them while we drive over to Mrs. Bisbee's.
					"It's this way," she began a few moments later, as they rattled down the road; "Bernice
						asked Allison if Mister Shelby couldn't be in one of the tableaux. Allison said yes,
						that they had intended to ask him before she spoke of it; that they had decided to ask
						him to be the boatman in the tableau of 'Elaine, the Lily Maid of Astolat.' But when
						Bernice found that Lloyd had already been asked to be Elaine, she was furious. She said
						she was just as good as engaged to him, or something of the sort, I don't know exactly
						what. And she knew, if Lloyd had a chance to monopolize him in that beautiful tableau,
						what it would lead to. It wouldn't be the first time that Lloyd had quietly stepped in
						and taken possession of her particular friends. She made such a fuss about it, that
						Allison finally said she'd change, and make Malcolm take the part of boatman, and give
						Alex the part they had intended for Malcolm, even if they didn't fit as well."
					"The hateful thing!" sputtered Mary, indignantly. "I don't see how she can insinuate
						such mean things about any one as sweet and beautiful as Lloyd is."
					"I don't either," agreed Elise, "but Allison says  it is
						true that everybody who has ever started out as a special friend of Bernice, men I mean,
						have ended by thinking the most of Lloyd. But everybody knows that it is simply because
						she is more attractive than Bernice. As Ranald says Lloyd isn't a girl to fish for
						attention, and that Bernice would have more if she didn't show the fellows that she was
						after them with a hook. Don't you tell Lloyd I told you all this," warned Elise.
					"Oh, I wouldn't think of doing such a thing!" cried Mary. "It would hurt her dreadfully
						to know that anybody talked so mean about her. I wouldn't be the one to repeat it, for
						worlds!"
					Left to hold the pony while Elise went in at Mrs Bisbee's, Mary sat thinking of the
						snake she had discovered in her Eden. It was a rude shock to find that every one did not
						admire and love the "Queen of Hearts," who to her was without fault or flaw. All the
						rest of that day and evening, she could not look in Bernice Howe's direction, without a
						savage desire to scratch her. Once, when she heard her address Lloyd as "dearie," she
						could hardly keep from crying out, "Oh, you sly, two-faced creature!"
					Lloyd and her guests arrived on the scene while Mary was away in the pony-cart on
						another borrowing  expedition. All of the tableaux, except
						two, were simple in setting, requiring only the costumes that could be furnished by the
						chests of the neighborhood attics. But those two kept everybody busy all morning long.
						One was the reproduction of a famous painting called June, in which seven garlanded
						maidens in Greek costumes posed in a bewitching rose bower. Quantities of roses were
						needed for the background, great masses of them that would not fade and droop; and since
						previous experience had proved that artificial flowers may be used with fine stage
						effect in the glare of red footlights the whole place was bursting into tissue-paper
						bloom. The girls cut and folded the myriad petals needed, the boys wired them, and a
						couple of little pickaninnies sent out to gather foliage, piled armfuls of young
						oak-leaves on the porch to twine into long conventional garlands, like the ones in the
						painting.
					Agnes Waring had come over to help with the Greek costumes, and since the long folds of
						cheesecloth could be held in place by girdles, basting threads, and pins, the gowns were
						rapidly finished.
					Down by the tea-house the colored coachman sawed and pounded and planed under Malcolm's
						occasional direction. He was building a barge like  the
						one described in Tennyson's poem of the Lily Maid of Astolat. From time to time, Lloyd,
						who was to personate Elaine, was called to stretch herself out on the black bier in the
						centre, to see if it was long enough or high enough or wide enough, before the final
						nails were driven into place.
					Malcolm, with a pole in his hand, posed as the old dumb servitor who was to row her up
						the river. It all looked unpromising enough in the broad daylight; the boat with its
						high stiff prow made of dry goods boxes and covered with black calico, and Lloyd
						stretched out on the bier in a modern shirtwaist suit with side-combs in her hair. She
						giggled as she meekly crossed her hands on her breast, with a piece of newspaper folded
						in one to represent the letter, and a bunch of lilac leaves in the other, which later
						was to clasp the lily. From under the long eyelashes lying on her cheeks, she smiled
						mischievously at Malcolm, who was vainly trying to put a decrepit bend into his athletic
						young back, as he bent over the pole in the attitude of an old, old man.
					"Yes, it does look silly now," admitted Miss Allison in answer to his protest that he
						felt like a fool. "But wait till you get on the long white, beard and wig I have for
						you, and the black robe. You'll look like Methuselah. And
						Lloyd will be covered with a cloth of gold, and her hair will be rippling down all over
						her shoulders like gold, too. And we've a real lily for the occasion, a long stalk of
						them. Oh, this tableau is to be the gem of the collection."
					"But half the people here won't understand it," said Malcolm.
					"Yes, they will, for we're to have readings behind the scenes in explanation of each
						one. We've engaged an amateur elocutionist for the occasion. I'll show you just the part
						she'll read for this scene, so you'll know how long you have to pose to-night. It begins
						with those lines, 'And the dead, oared by the dumb, went upward with the flood. In her
						right hand the lily, in her left the letter.' Where did I put that volume of
						Tennyson?"
					"Here it is," answered Mary Ware, unexpectedly, springing up from her seat on the grass
						to hand her the volume. She had been watching the rehearsal with wide-eyed interest.
						Deep down in her romance-loving little soul had long been the desire to see Sir Feal the
						Faithful face to face, and hear him address the Princess. The play of the "Rescue of the
						Princess Winsome" had become a real thing to her, that she felt that it must have  happened; that Malcolm really was Lloyd's true knight, and
						that when they were alone together they talked like the people in books. She was
						disappointed when the rehearsal was over because the conversation she had imagined did
						not take place.
					The coachman's carpenter-work was not of the steadiest, and Lloyd lay laughing on the
						shaky bier because she could not rise without fear of upsetting it.
					"Help me up, you ancient mariner," she ordered, and when Malcolm, instead of springing
						forward in courtly fashion to her assistance as Sir Feal should have done, playfully
						held out his pole for her to pull herself up by, Mary felt that something was wrong. A
						playful manner was not seemly on the part of a Sir Feal. It would have been natural
						enough for Phil or Rob to do teasing things, but she resented it when there seemed a
						lack of deference on Malcolm's part toward the Princess.






					After they had gone back to the porch, Mary sat on the grass a long time, reading the
						part of the poem relating to the tableau. She and Holland had committed to memory
						several pages of the "Idylls of the King," and had often run races repeating them, to
						see which could finish first. Now Mary found that she still remembered the entire page
							 that Miss Allison had read. She closed the book, and
						repeated it to herself. 
							
								"So that day there was dole in Astolat.
								
								Then rose the dumb old servitor, and the dead,
								Oared by the dumb, went upward with the flood --
								In her right hand the lily, in her left
								The letter-- all her bright hair streaming down-- 
								And all the coverlid was cloth of gold --
								Drawn to her waist, and she herself in white.
								All but her face, and that clear-featured face
								Was lovely, for she did not seem as dead,
								But fast asleep, and lay as though she smiled."
							
						
					That was as far as Mary got with her whispered declamation, for two white-capped maids
						came out and began spreading small tables under the beech-tree where she sat. She opened
						the book and began reading, because she did not know what else to do. While she had been
						watching Lloyd in the boat, Elise had been summoned to the house to try on the dress she
						was to wear in the tableau of the gipsy fortune-teller. The people on the porch had
						divided into little groups which she did not feel free to join. She was afraid they
						would think she was intruding. Even her own sister seemed out of her reach, for she and
						Lieutenant Logan had taken their share of paper roses over to a rustic  seat near the croquet grounds and were talking more busily
						than they were fashioning tissue flowers.
					Mary was unselfishly glad that Joyce was having attention like the other girls and that
						she had been chosen for one of the Greek maidens in the tableau of June. And she wasn't
						really jealous of Elise because she was to be tambourine girl in the gipsy scene, but
						she did wish, with a little fluttering sigh, that she could have had some small part in
						it all. It was hard to be the only plain one in the midst of so many pretty girls; so
						plain that nobody even thought of suggesting her for one of the characters. "I know very
						well," she said to herself, "that a Lily Maid of Astolat with freckles would be ridicu
						ridiculous, and I'm not slim and graceful enough to be a tambourine girl, but it would
						be so nice to have some part in it. It would be such a comfortable feeling to know that
						you're pretty enough always to be counted in."
					Her musings were interrupted by the descent of the party upon the picnic tables, and
						she looked up to see Elise beckoning her to a seat. To her delight it was at the table
						opposite the one where Lloyd and Phil, Anna Moore and Keith were seated. Malcolm was
						just across from them, with Miss  Bonham on one side and
						Betty and Lieutenant Stanley on the other. Mary looked around inquiringly for her
						sister. She was with Rob now, and Lieutenant Logan was placing chairs for Allison and
						himself on the other side of the tree. Mr. Shelby and the hateful Miss Bernice Howe were
						over there, too, Mary noted, glad that they were at a distance.
					Malcolm was still in a teasing mood, it seemed, for as Lloyd helped herself in picnic
						fashion from a plate of fried chicken, he said, laughing, "Look at Elaine now. Tennyson
						wouldn't know his Lily Maid if he saw her in this way." He struck an attitude,
						declaiming dramatically, "In her right hand the wish-bone, in her left the olive."
					"That's all right," answered Lloyd, tossing the olive stone out on the grass, and
						helping herself to a beaten biscuit. "I always did think that Elaine was a dreadful
						goose to go floating down the rivah to a man who didn't care two straws about her. She'd
						much bettah have held on to a wishbone and an olive and stayed up in her high towah with
						her fathah and brothahs who appreciated her. She would have had a bettah time and he
						would have had lots moah respect for her."
					"Oh, I don't think so," cooed Miss Bonham,  with a
						coquettish side glance at Phil. "That always seemed such a beautifully romantic
						situation to me. Doesn't it appeal to you, Mr. Tremont?"
					Mary listened for Phil's answer with grave attention, for she, too, considered it a
						touching situation, and more than once had pictured, in pleasing day-dream, herself as
						Elaine, floating down a stream in that poetic fashion.
					"Well, no, Miss Bonham," said Phil, laughingly. "I'm free to confess that if I had been
						Sir Lancelot, I'd have liked her a great deal better if she had been a cheerful sort of
						body, and had stayed alive. Then if she had come rowing up in a nice trig little craft,
						instead of that spooky old funeral barge, and had offered me a wish-bone and an olive,
						I'd have thought them twice as fetching as a lily and that doleful letter. I'd have
						joined her picnic in a jiffy, and probably had such a jolly time that the poem would
						have ended with wedding bells in the high tower instead of a funeral dirge in the
						palace.
					"She wasn't game," he continued, smiling across at Mary, who was listening with
						absorbing attention. "Now if she had only lived up to the Vicar of Wakefield's motto --
						instead of mooning over Lancelot's old shield, and embroidering things for  it, and acting as if it were something too precious for
						ordinary mortals to touch-- if she'd batted it into the corner, or made mud pies on it,
						to show that she was inflexible, fortune would have changed in her
						favor. Sir Lancelot would have had some respect for her common sense."
					Mary, who felt that the remark was addressed to her, crimsoned painfully. Rob took up
						the question, and his opinion was the same as Phil's and Malcolm's. Long after the
						conversation passed to other topics, Mary puzzled over the fact that the three
						knightliest-looking men she knew, the three who, she supposed, would make ideal lovers,
						had laughed at one of the most romantic situations in all poesy, and had agreed that
						Elaine was silly and sentimental. Maybe, she thought with burning cheeks, maybe they
						would think she was just as bad if they knew how she had admired Elaine and imagined
						herself in her place, and actually cried over the poor maiden who loved so fondly and so
						truly that she could die of a broken heart.
					When she reflected that Lloyd, too, had agreed with them, she began to think that her
						own ideals might need reconstructing. She was glad that Phil's smile had seemed to say
						that he took it for granted that she would have been inflexible to the  extent of making mud pies on Lancelot's shield.
						Unconsciously her reconstruction began then and there, for although the seeds sown by
						the laughing discussion at the picnic table lay dormant in her memory many years, they
						blossomed into a saving common sense at last, that enabled her to see the humorous side
						of the most sentimental situation, and gave her wisdom to meet it as it deserved.
					The outdoor tableaux that night proved to be one of the most successful entertainments
						ever given in the Valley. A heavy wire, stretched from one beech-tree to another, held
						the curtains that hid the impromptu stage. The vine-covered tea-house and a dense clump
						of shrubbery formed the background. Rows of Japanese lanterns strung from the gate to
						the house, and from pillar to pillar of the wide porches, gave a festive appearance to
						the place, but they were not really needed. The full moon flooded the lawn with a
						silvery radiance, and, as the curtains parted each time, a flash of red lights
						illuminated the tableaux.
					It was like a glimpse of fairy-land to Mary, and she had the double enjoyment of
						watching the arrangement of each group behind the scenes, and then hurrying back with
						Elise to their chairs in the  front row, just as Ranald
						gave the signal to burn the red lights.
					There was the usual confusion in the dressing-room, the tea-house having been taken for
						that purpose. There was more than usual in some instances, for while the fte had been
						planned for some time, the tableaux were an afterthought, and many details had been
						overlooked. Still, with slight delays, they moved along toward a successful finish.
					Group by group posed for its particular picture and returned to seats in the audience
						to enjoy the remainder of the performance. At last only three people were left in the
						tea-house, and Miss Allison sent Keith, Rob, Phil, and Lieutenant Logan before the
						curtain, with instructions to sing one of the longest songs they knew and two encores,
						while Gibbs repaired the prow of the funeral barge. Some one had used it for a
						step-ladder, and had broken it.
					Mary, waiting in the audience till the quartette had finished its first song, did not
						appear on the scene behind the curtain until Malcolm was dressed in his black robe and
						long white beard and wig, and Lloyd was laid out on the black bier.
					"Stay just as you are," whispered Miss Allison.  "It's
						perfect. I'm going out into the audience to enjoy the effect as the curtain rises."
					As she passed Miss Casey, the elocutionist, she felt some one catch her sleeve. "I've
						left that copy of Tennyson at the house," she gasped. "What shall I do?"
					"I'll run and get it," volunteered Elise in a whisper, and promptly started off. Mary,
						standing back in the shadow of a tall lilac bush, clasped her hands in silent admiration
						of the picture. It was wonderful how the moonlight transformed everything. Here was the
						living, breathing poem itself before her. She forgot it was Lloyd and Malcolm posing in
						makeshift costumes on a calico-covered dry goods box. It seemed the barge itself, draped
						all in blackest samite, going upward with the flood, that day that there was dole in
						Astolat. While she gazed like one in a dream, Lloyd half-opened her eyes, to peep at the
						old boatman.
					"I wish they'd hurry," she said, in a low tone. "I never felt so foolish in my whole
						life."
					"And never looked more beautiful," Malcolm answered, trying to get another glimpse of
						her without changing his pose.
					"Sh," she whispered back saucily. "You forget that you are dumb. You mustn't say a
						word."




					

					"I will," he answered, in a loud whisper. "For even if I were really dumb I think I
						should find my voice to tell you that with your hair rippling down on that cloth of gold
						in the moonlight, and all in white, with that lily in your hand, you look like an angel,
						and I'm in the seventh heaven to be here with you in this boat."
					"And with you in that white hair and beard I feel as if it were Fathah Time paying me
						compliments," said Lloyd, her cheeks dimpling with amusement. "Hush! It's time for me to
						look dead," she warned, as the applause followed the last encore. "Don't say anything to
						make me laugh. I'm trying to look as if I had died of a broken heart."
					Elise darted back just as the prompter's bell rang, and Mary, turning to follow her to
						their seats in the audience, saw Miss Casey tragically throw up her hands, with a
						horrified exclamation. It was not the copy of Tennyson Elise had brought her. In her
						haste she had snatched up a volume of essays bound in the same blue and gold.
					"Go on!" whispered Malcolm, sternly. "Say something. At least go out and explain the
						tableau in your own words. There are lots of people who won't know what we are aiming
						at."


					


					Miss Casey only wrung her hands. "Oh, I can't! I can't!" she answered, hoarsely. "I
						couldn't think of a word before all those people!" As the curtain drew slowly apart, she
						covered her face with her hands and sank back out of sight in the shrubbery.
					The curtain-shifter had answered the signal of the prompter's bell, which at Miss
						Allison's direction was to be rung immediately after the last applause. Neither knew of
						the dilemma.
					A long-drawn "O-o-oh" greeted the beautiful tableau, and then there was a silence that
						made Miss Allison rise half-way in her seat, to see what had become of the interpreter.
						Then she sank back again, for a clear, strong voice, not Miss Casey's, took up the
						story. 
							
								"And that day there was dole in Astolat.
								Then rose the dumb old servitor, and the dead,
								Oared by the dumb, went upward with the flood."
							
						

					She did not know who had sprung to the rescue, but Joyce, who recognized Mary's voice,
						felt a thrill of pride that she was doing it so well. It was better than Miss Casey's
						rendering, for it was without any professional frills and affectations; just the. simple
						story told in the simplest way by one who 
						
							"A LONG-DRAWN 'O - O - OH' GREETED THE BEAUTIFUL TABLEAU"
						
						
						 felt to the fullest the beauty of the picture and the
						music of the poem.
					The red lights flared up, and again the exclamation of pleasure swept through the
						audience, for Lloyd, lying on the black bier with her hair rippling down and the lily in
						her hand, might indeed have been the dead Elaine, so ethereal and fair she seemed in
						that soft glow. Three times the curtains were parted, and even then the enthusiastic
						guests kept applauding.
					There was a rush from the seats, and half a dozen admiring friends pushed between the
						curtains to offer congratulations. But before they reached her, Lloyd had rolled off her
						bier to catch Mary in an impulsive hug, crying, "You were a perfect darling to save the
						day that way! Wasn't she, Malcolm? It was wondahful that you happened to know it!"
					The next moment she had turned to Judge Moore and Alex Shelby and the ladies who were
						with them, to explain how Mary had had the presence of mind and the ability to throw
						herself into Miss Casey's place on the spur of the moment, and turn a failure into a
						brilliant success. The congratulations and compliments which she heard on every side
						were very sweet to Mary's ears, and when Phil came up  a
						little later to tell her that she was a brick and the heroine of the evening, she
						laughed happily.
					"Where is the fair Elaine?" he asked next. "I see her boat is empty. Can you tell me
						where she has drifted?"
					"No," answered Mary, so eager to be of service that she was ready to tell all she knew.
						"She was here with Sir Feal till just a moment ago."
					"Sir Feal!" echoed Phil, in amazement.
					"Oh, I forgot that you don't know the Princess play. I meant Mister Malcolm. While so
						many people were in here congratulating us and shaking hands, I heard him say something
						to her in an undertone, and then he sang sort of under his breath, you know, so that
						nobody else but me heard him, that verse from the play: 
							
								"'Go bid the Princess in the tower
								Forget all thought of sorrow.
								Her true love will return to her
								With joy on some glad morrow.'
							
						

					"Then he bent over her and said still lower, 'By my calendar it's the
						glad morrow now, Princess.'
					"He went on just like he was in the play, you know. I suppose they have rehearsed it so
						much that it is sort of second nature for them to talk  in
						that old-time way, like kings and queens used to do."
					"Maybe," answered Phil. "Then what did she say?" he demanded,
						frowning.
					"I don't know. She walked off toward the house with him, and that's the last I saw of
						them. Why, what's the matter?"
					"Oh, nothing!" he replied, with a shrug of his shoulders. "Nothing's the matter, little
						Vicar. Let us keep inflexible, and fortune will at last change in our
							favor."
					"Now whatever did he mean by that!" exclaimed Mary, as she watched him walk away. It
						puzzled her all the rest of the evening that he should have met her question with the
						family motto.

				

				



				


					 CHAPTER IX. "SOMETHING BLUE"

					A RAINY day followed the lawn fte, such a steady pour that little
						rivers ran down the window -panes, and the porches had to be abandoned. But nobody
						lamented the fact that they were driven indoors. Rob and Joyce began a game of chess in
						the library. Lloyd and Phil turned over the music in the cabinet until they found a pile
						of duets which they both knew, and began to try them, first to the accompaniment of the
						piano, then the harp.
					Mary, sitting in the hall where she could see both the chess-players and the singers,
						waited in a state of bliss to be summoned to the sewing-room. Only that morning it had
						been discovered that there was enough pink chiffon left, after the bridesmaids' gowns
						were completed, to make her a dress, and the seamstress was at work upon it now. So it
						was a gay, rose-colored world to Mary  this morning,
						despite the leaden skies and pouring rain outside. Not only was she to have a dress, the
						material for which had actually been brought from Paris, but she was to have little pink
						satin slippers like the bridesmaids, and she was to have a proud place in the wedding
						itself. When the bridal party came down the stairs, it was to be her privilege to swing
						wide the gate of roses for them to pass through.
					Joyce had designed the gate. It was to be a double one, swung in the arch between the
						hall and the drawing-room, and it would take hundreds of roses to make it, the florist
						said.
					In Mary's opinion the office of gate-opener was more to be desired than that of
						bridesmaid. As she sat listening to the music, curled up in a big hall chair like a
						contented kitten, she decided that there was nobody in all the world with whom she would
						change places. There had been times when she would have exchanged gladly with Joyce,
						thinking of the artist career ahead of her, or with Betty, who was sure to be a famous
						author some day, or with Lloyd, who seemed to have everything that heart could wish, or
						with Eugenia with all her lovely presents and trousseau and the new home on the Hudson
						waiting for her. But just  now she was so happy that she
						wouldn't even have stepped into a fairy-tale.
					Presently, through the dripping window-panes, she saw Alec plodding up the avenue under
						an umbrella, his pockets bulging with mail packages, papers, and letters. Betty, at her
						window up-stairs, saw him also, and came running down the steps, followed by Eugenia.
						The old Colonel, hearing the call, "The mail's here," opened the door of his den, and
						joined the group in the hall where Betty proceeded to sort out the letters. A registered
						package from Stuart was the first thing that Eugenia tore open, and the others looked up
						from their letters at her pleased exclamation:
					"Oh, it's the charms for the bride's cake!"
					"Ornaments for the top?" asked Rob, as she lifted the layer of jeweller's cotton and
						disclosed a small gold thimble, and a narrow wedding-ring.
					"No! Who ever heard of such a thing!" she laughed. "Haven't you heard of the
						traditional charms that must be baked in a bride's cake? It is a token of the fate one
						may expect who finds it in his slice of cake. Eliot taught me the old rhyme: 
						
							
								"'Four tokens must the bridescake hold:
								A silver shilling and a ring of gold,
								A crystal charm good luck to symbol,
								And for the spinster's hand a thimble.'
							
						

					"Eliot firmly believes that the tokens are a prophecy, for years ago, at her cousin's
						wedding in England, she got the spinster's thimble. The girl who found the ring was
						married within the year, and the one who found the shilling shortly came into an
						inheritance. True, it didn't amount to much, -- about five pounds, -- but the
						coincidence firmly convinced Eliot of the truth of the superstition. In this country
						people usually take a dime instead of a shilling, but I told Stuart that I wanted to
						follow the custom strictly to the letter. And look what a dear he is! Here is a bona fide English shilling, that he took the trouble to get for me."
					Phil took up the bit of silver she had placed beside the thimble and the ring, and
						looked it over critically. "Well, I'll declare!" he exclaimed. "That was Aunt Patricia's
						old shilling! I'd swear to it. See the way the hole is punched, just between those two
						ugly old heads? And I remember the dent just below the date. Looks as if some one had
						tried to bite it. Aunt Patricia used to  keep it in her
						treasure-box with her gold beads and other keepsakes."
					The old Colonel, who had once had a fad for collecting coins, and owned a large
						assortment, held out his hand for it. Adjusting his glasses, he examined it carefully.
						"Ah! Most interesting," he observed. "Coined in the reign of 'Bloody Mary,' and bearing
						the heads of Queen Mary and King Philip. You remember this shilling is mentioned in
						Butler's 'Hudibras:' 
							
								"'Still amorous and fond and billing,
								Like Philip and Mary on a shilling.'
							
						

					"You couldn't have a more appropriate token for your cake, my dear," he said to Eugenia
						with a smile. Then he laid it on the table, and taking up his papers, passed back into
						his den.
					"That's the first time I ever heard my name in a poem," said Phil. "By rights I ought
						to draw that shilling in my share of cake. If I do I shall take it as a sign that
						history is going to repeat itself, and shall look around for a ladye-love named Mary.
						Now I know a dozen songs with that name, and such things always come in handy when 'a
						frog he would a-wooing go.' There's 'My Highland Mary' and 'Mary of Argyle,' and  'Mistress Mary, quite contrary,' and 'Mary, call the cattle
						home, across the sands of Dee!'"
					As he rattled thoughtlessly on, nothing was farther from his thoughts than the
						self-conscious little Mary just behind him. Nobody saw her face grow red, however, for
						Lloyd's exclamation over the last token made every one crowd around her to see.


					It was a small heart-shaped charm of crystal, probably intended for a watch-fob. There
						was a four-leaf clover, somehow mysteriously imbedded in the centre.
					"That ought to be doubly lucky," said Eugenia. "Oh, what a dear
						Stuart was to take so much trouble to get the very nicest things. They couldn't be more
						suitable."
					"Eugenia," asked Betty, "have you thought of that other rhyme that brides always
						consider? You know you should wear 
							
								"'Something old, something new,
								Something borrowed, something blue.'
							
						

					"Yes, Eliot insisted on that, too. The whole outfit will, itself, be something new, the
						lace that was on my mother's wedding-gown will be the something old. I thought I'd
						borrow a hairpin  apiece from you girls, and I haven't
						decided yet about the something blue."
					"No," objected Lloyd. "The borrowed articles ought to be something really valuable. Let
						me lend you my little pearl clasps to fasten your veil, and then for the something blue,
						there is your turquoise butterfly. You can slip it on somewhere, undah the folds of
						lace."
					"What a lot of fol-de-rol there is about a wedding," said Rob. "As if it made a
						particle of difference whether you wear pink or green! Why must it be
						blue?"
					There was an indignant protest from all the girls, and Rob made his escape to the
						library, calling to Joyce to come and finish the game of chess.
					That evening, Mary, sitting on the floor of the library in front of the Poets' Corner,
						took down volume after volume to scan its index. She was looking for the songs Phil had
						mentioned, which contained her name. At the same time she also kept watch for the name
						of Philip. She remembered she had read some lines one time about "Philip my King."
					As she pored over the poems in the dim light, for only the shaded lamp on the central
						table was burning, she heard steps on the porch outside. The  rain had stopped early in the afternoon, and the porches had dried so that
						the hammocks and chairs could be put out again. Now voices sounded just outside the
						window where she sat, and the creaking of a screw in the post told that some one was
						sitting in the hammock. Evidently it was Lloyd, for Phil's voice sounded nearer the
						window. He had seated himself in the armchair that always stood in that niche, and was
						tuning a guitar. As soon as it was keyed up to his satisfaction, he began thrumming on
						it, a sort of running accompaniment to their conversation.
					It did not occur to Mary that she was eavesdropping, for they were talking of
						impersonal things, just the trifles of the hour; and she caught only a word now and then
						as she scanned the story of Enoch Arden. The name Philip, in it, had arrested her
						attention.
					"I think the maid of honor ought to wear something blue as well as the bride," remarked
						Phil.
					"Why?" asked Lloyd.
					There was such a long pause that Mary looked up, wondering why he did not answer.
					"Why?" asked Lloyd again.
					Phil thrummed on a moment longer, and then began playing in a soft minor key, and his
						answer,  when it finally came, seemed at first to have no
						connection with what he had been talking about.
					"Do you remember when we were in Arizona, the picnic we had at Hole-in-the-rock, and
						the story that that old Norwegian told about Alaka, the gambling god, who lost his
						string of precious turquoises and even his eyes?"
					"Yes."
					 Mary looked up from her book, listening alertly. The mystery of years was about to be
						explained.
					"Well, do you remember a conversation you had with Joyce about it afterward, in which
						you called the turquoise the 'friendship stone,' because it was true blue? And you said
						it was a pity that some people you knew, not a thousand miles away, couldn't go to the
						School of the Bees, and learn that line from Watts about Satan finding mischief for idle
						hands to do. And Joyce said yes, it was too bad for a fine fellow to get into trouble
						just because he was a drone, and had no ambition to make anything of himself; that if
						Alaka had gone to the School of the Bees he wouldn't have lost his eyes. And then you
						said that if somebody kept on he would at least lose his turquoises. Do you remember all
						that?"
					The screw in the post stopped creaking as Lloyd  sat
						straight up in the hammock to exclaim in astonishment: "Yes, I remembah, but how undah
						the sun, Phil Tremont, do you happen to know anything about that
						convahsation? You were not there."
					"No, but little Mary Ware was. She didn't have the faintest idea that you meant me, and
						that Sunday morning when I called at the Wigwam for the last time to make my apologies
						and farewells, and you were not there, she told me all about it like the blessed little
						chatterbox that she was. Then, when I saw plainly that I had forfeited my right to your
						friendship, I did not wait to say good-by, just left a message for you with Mary. I knew
						she would attempt to deliver it, but I have wondered many times since if she gave it in
						the words I told her. Of course I couldn't expect you to remember the exact words after
						all this time."
					"But it happens that I do," answered Lloyd. "She said, 'Alaka has lost his precious
						turquoises, but he will win them back again some day.'"
					"Did you understand what I meant, Lloyd?"
					"Well, I-- I guessed at yoah meaning."
					"Mary unwittingly did me a good turn that morning. She was an angel unawares, for she
						showed me myself as you saw me, a drone in the  hive, with
						no ambition, and the gambling fever in my veins making a fool of me. I went away vowing
						I would win back your respect and make myself worthy of your friendship, and I can say
						honestly that I have kept that vow. Soon after, while I was out on that first surveying
						trip I came across some unset stones for a mere song. This little turquoise was among
						them." He took the tiny stone from his pocket and held it out on his palm, so that the
						light streaming out from the library fell across it.
					"I have carried it ever since. Many a time it has reminded me of you and your good
						opinion I was trying to win back. I've had lots of temptations to buck against, and
						there have been times when they almost downed me, but I say it in all humility, Lloyd,
						this little bit of turquoise kept me 'true blue,' and I've lived straight enough to ask
						you to take it now, in token that you do think me worthy of your friendship. When I
						heard Eugenia talking about wearing something blue at the wedding, I had a fancy that it
						would be an appropriate thing for the maid of honor to do, too."
					Lloyd took the little stone he offered, and held it up to the light.
					"It certainly is true blue," she said, with a smile, 
						"and I'm suah you are too, now. I didn't need this to tell me how well you've been doing
						since you left Arizona. We've heard a great deal about yoah successes from Cousin
						Carl."
					"Then let me have it set in a ring for you," he added. "There will be plenty of time
						before the wedding."
					"No," she answered, hastily. "I couldn't do that. Papa Jack wouldn't like it. He
						wouldn't allow me to accept anything from a man in the way of jewelry, you know. I
						couldn't take it as a ring. Now just this little unset stone"-- she hesitated. "Just
						this bit of a turquoise that you say cost only a trifle, I'm suah he wouldn't mind that.
						I'll tell him it's just my friendship stone."
					"What a particular little maid of honor you are!" he exclaimed. "How many girls of
						seventeen do you know who would take the trouble to go to their fathers with a trifle,
						like that, and make a careful explanation about it? Besides, you can't tell him that it
						is only a friendship stone. I want it to mean more than that to you,
						Lloyd. I want it to stand for a great deal more between us. Don't you see how I care --
						how I must have cared all this time, to let the thought of you make such a difference in
						my life?"


					


					There was no mistaking the deep tenderness of his voice or the earnestness of his
						question. Lloyd felt the blood surge up in her face and her heart throbbed so fast she
						could hear it beat. But she hastily thrust back the proffered turquoise, saying in
						confusion:
					"Then I can't wear it! Take it back, please; I promised Papa Jack --"
					"Promised him what?" asked Phil, as she hesitated.
					"Well, it's rathah hard to explain," she began in much confusion, "unless you knew the
						story of 'The Three Weavahs.' Then you'd undahstand."
					"But I don't know it, and I'd rather like an explanation of some kind. I think you'll
						have to make it clear to me why you can't accept it, and what it was you promised your
						father."
					"Oh, I can't tell it to make it sound like anything," she began, desperately. "It was
						like this. No, I can't tell it. Come in the house, and I'll get the book and let you
						read it for yoahself."
					"No, I'd rather hear the reason from your own lips. Besides, some one would interrupt
						us in there, and I want to understand where I'm 'at' before that happens."
					"Well," she began again, "it is a story Mrs.  Walton told
						us once when our Shadow Club was in disgrace, because one of the girls eloped, and we
						were all in such trouble about it that we vowed we'd be old maids. Afterward it was the
						cause of our forming another club that we called the 'Ordah of Hildegarde.' I'll give
						you a sawt of an outline now, if you'll promise to read the entiah thing aftahward."
					"I'll promise," agreed Phil.
					"Then, this is it. Once there were three maidens, of whom it was written in the stahs
						that each was to wed a prince, provided she could weave a mantle that should fit his
						royal shouldahs as the falcon's feathahs fit the falcon. Each had a mirror beside her
						loom like the Lady of Shalott's in which the shadows of the world appeahed.
					"One maiden wove in secret, and falling in love with a page who daily passed her
						mirror, imagined him to be a prince, and wove her web to fit his unworthy shouldahs. Of
						co'se when the real prince came it was too small, and so she missed the happiness that
						was written for her in the stahs.
					"The second squandahed her warp of gold first on one, then anothah, weaving mantles for
						any one who happened to take her fancy-- a shepherd boy and a troubador, a student and a
						knight.  When her prince rode by she had nothing left to
						offah him, so she missed her life's happiness.
					"But the third had a deah old fathah like Papa Jack, and he gave her a silvah yahdstick
						on which was marked the inches and ells that a true prince ought to be. And he warned
						her like this:
					"'Many youths will come to thee, each begging, "Give me the royal
						mantle, Hildegarde. I am the prince the stahs have destined for thee."
						And with honeyed words he'll show thee how the mantle in the loom is just the length to
						fit his shouldahs. But let him not persuade thee to cut it loose and give it to him as
						thy young fingahs will be fain to do. Weave on anothah yeah and yet anothah, till thou,
						a woman grown, can measuah out a perfect web, moah ample than these stripling youths
						could carry, but which will fit thy prince in faultlessness, as the falcon's feathahs
						fit the falcon.'
					"Then Hildegarde took the silvah yahdstick and said, 'You may trust me, fathah. I will
						not cut the golden warp from out the loom, until I, a woman grown, have woven such a web
						as thou thyself shalt say is worthy of a prince's wearing.' (That's what I promised Papa
						Jack.)
					"Of co'se it turned out, that one day with her  fathah's
						blessing light upon her, she rode away beside the prince, and evah aftah all her life
						was crowned with happiness, as it had been written for her in the stahs."
					There was a long pause when she finished, so long that the silence began to grow
						painful. Then Phil said, slowly:
					"I understand now. Would you mind telling me what the measure was your father gave you
						that your prince must be?"
					"There were three notches. He must be clean and honahable and strong."
					There was another long pause before Phil said, "Well, I wouldn't be measuring up to
						that second notch if I asked you to break your promise to your father, and you wouldn't
						do it even if I did. So there's nothing more for me to say at present. But I'll ask this
						much. You'll keep the turquoise if we count it merely a friendship stone, won't
						you?"
					"Yes, I'll be glad to do that. And I'll weah it at the wedding if you want me to, as my
						bit of something blue. I'll slip it down into my glove."
					"Thank you," he answered, then added, after a pause: "And I suppose there's another
						thing.  That yardstick keeps all the other fellows at a
						distance, too. That's something to be cheerful over. But you mark my words-- I'm doing a
						bit of prophesying now-- when your real prince comes you'll know him by this: he'll come
						singing this song. Listen."
					Picking up his guitar again, he struck one full deep chord and began singing softly the
						"Bedouin Love-song," "From the desert I come to thee." The refrain floated tremulously
						through the library window. 
							
								"Till the stars are old,
								And the sun grows cold,
								And the leaves of the judgment
								Book unfold."
							
						

					It brought back the whole moonlighted desert to Lloyd, with the odor of orange-blossoms
						wafted across it, as it had been on two eventful occasions they rode over it together.
						She sat quite still in the hammock, with the bit of turquoise clasped tight in her hand.
						It was hard to listen to such a beautiful voice unmoved. It thrilled her as no song had
						ever done before.
					As it floated into the library, it thrilled Mary also, but in a different way; for with
						a guilty  start she realized that she had been listening
						to something not meant for her to hear.
					"Oh, what have I done! What have I done!" she whispered to herself, dropping the book
						and noiselessly wringing her hands. She could hear voices on the stairs now. Eugenia and
						Betty were coming down, and Rob's whistle down the avenue told that he was on his way to
						join them. Too ashamed to face any one just then, and afraid that her guilty face would
						betray the fact to Phil and Lloyd that she shared their secret, she hurried out of the
						library and up to her room, where Joyce was rearranging her hair. In response to Joyce's
						question about her coming up so early in the evening, she said she had thought of
						something she wanted to write in her journal. But when Joyce had gone down she did not
						begin writing immediately. Turning down the lamp until the room was almost in darkness,
						she sat with her elbows on the window-sill staring out into the night.
					"I never meant to do it!" she kept explaining to her conscience. "It
						just did itself. It seemed all right to listen at first, when they were talking about
						things I had a right to know, and then I got so interested, it was like reading a story,
						and I couldn't go away because I forgot there was such  a
						person living as me. But Lloyd mightn't understand how it was. She'd
						scorn to be an eavesdropper herself, and she'd scorn and despise me if she knew that I
						just sat there like a graven image and listened to Phil the same as propose to her."
					Hitherto Mary had looked upon Malcolm as Lloyd's especial knight, and had planned to be
						his valiant champion should need for her services ever arise. But this put matters in a
						different light. All her sympathies were enlisted in Phil's behalf now. She liked Phil
						the best, and she wanted him to have whatever he wanted. He had called her his "angel
						unawares," and she wished she could do something to further deserve that title. Then she
						began supposing things.
					Suppose she should come tripping down the stairs some day (this would be sometime in
						the future, of course, when Lloyd's promise to her father was no longer binding) and
						should find Phil pacing the room with impatient strides because the maid of honor had
						gone off with Sir Feal to the opera or somewhere, in preference to him, on account of
						some misunderstanding. "The little rift within the lute" would be making the best  man's music mute, and now would be her time to play angel
						unawares again.
					She would trip in lightly, humming a song perhaps, and finding him moody and downcast,
						would begin the conversation with some appropriate quotation. In looking through the
						dictionary the day before, her eye had caught one from Shakespeare, which she had stored
						away in her memory to use on some future occasion. Yes, that one would be very
						appropriate to begin the conversation. She would go up to him and say, archly: 
							
								"My lord leans wondrously to discontent.
								His comfortable temper has forsook him."
							
						

					With that a smile would flit across his stern features, and presently he would be moved
						to confide in her, and she would encourage him. Then, she didn't know yet exactly in
						what way it could come about, she would do something to bring the two together again,
						and wipe out the bitter misunderstanding.
					It was a very pleasing dream. That and others like it kept her sitting by the window
						till nearly bedtime. Then, just before the girls came upstairs, she turned up the lamp
						and made an entry in her journal. With the fear that some prying  eye might some day see that page, she omitted all names, using only
						initials. It would have puzzled the Sphinx herself to have deciphered that entry, unless
						she had guessed that the initials stood for titles instead of names. The last paragraph
						concluded: "It now lies between Sir F. and the B. M., but I think it will be the B. M.
						who will get the mantle, for Sir F. and his brother have gone away on a yachting trip.
						The M. of H. does not know that I know, and the secret weighs heavy on my mind."
					She was in bed when the girls came up, but the door into the next room stood open and
						she heard Betty say, "Oh, we forgot to give you Alex Shelby's message, Lloyd. Joyce and
						I met him on our way to the post-office. He was walking with Bernice. He sent his
						greetings to the fair Elaine. He fairly raved over the way you looked in that moonlight
						tableau."
					"It was evident that Bernice didn't enjoy his raptures very much," added Joyce. "Her
						face showed that she was not only bored, but displeased."
					"I can imagine it," said Lloyd. " Really, girls, I think this is a serious case with
						Bernice. She seems to think moah of Mistah Shelby than any one who has evah gone to see
						her, and she is old  enough now to have it mean something.
						She's neahly twenty, you know. I do hope he thinks as much of her as she does of
						him."
					"There!" whispered Mary to herself, nodding wisely in the darkness of her room, as if
						to an unseen listener. "I knew it! I told you so! All the king's horses and all the
						king's men couldn't make me believe she'd stoop to such a thing as that nasty Bernice
						Howe insinuated. She's a maid of honor in every way!"
				
				



				
					CHAPTER X. "A COON HUNT"

					THE morning after the arrival of the rest of the bridal party, Betty
						was out of bed at the first sound of any one stirring in the servants' quarters. She and
						Lloyd had given up their rooms to the new guests, and moved back into the sewing-room
						together. Now in order not to awaken Lloyd she tiptoed out to the little vine-covered
						balcony, through the window that opened into it from the sewing-room. She was in her
						nightgown, for she could not wait to dress, when she was so eager to find out what kind
						of a day Eugenia was to have for her wedding.
					Not a cloud was in sight. It was as perfect as only a June morning can be, in Kentucky.
						The fresh smell of dewy roses and new-mown grass mingled with the pungent smoke of the
						wood fire, just beginning to curl up in blue rings from the kitchen chimney. Soft
						twitterings and jubilant bird-calls followed the flash of wings from tree to  tree. She peeped out between the thick mass of wistaria
						vines, across the grassy court, formed by the two rear wings of the house, to another
						balcony opposite the one in which she stood. It opened off Eugenia's room, and was
						almost hidden by a climbing rose, which made a perfect bride's bower, with its gorgeous
						full-blown Gloire Dijon roses.
					Stray rhymes and words suggestive of music and color and the morning's glory began to
						flit through her mind as she stood there, as if a little poem were about to start to
						life with a happy fluttering of wings; a madrigal of June. But in a few moments she
						slipped back into the house through the window, put on her kimono and slippers, and
						gathering up her journal in one hand and pen and ink with the other, she stole back to
						the balcony again. The seamstress had left her sewing-chair out there the afternoon she
						finished Mary's dress, and it still stood there, with the lap-board beside it. Taking
						the board on her knees, and opening her journal upon it, Betty perched her ink-bottle on
						the balcony railing and began to write. She knew there would be no time later in the day
						for her to bring her record up-to-date, and she did not want to let the happenings pile
						up unrecorded. She was afraid she might leave out something she wanted to include,  and she had found that the trivial conversations and the
						trifles she noted were often the things which recalled a scene most vividly, and almost
						made it seem to live again. She began her narrative just where she had left off, so that
						it made a continuous story.
					"We didn't settle down to anything yesterday morning. Phil went to town with Papa Jack
						directly after breakfast, and we girls just strolled up and down the avenue and talked.
						It was delightfully cool under the locusts, and we knew it would be our last morning
						with Eugenia; that after the arrival of the rest of the bridal party, everything would
						be in confusion until after the wedding, and then she would never be Eugenia Forbes
						again. She would be Mrs. Stuart Tremont.
					"She told us that her being married wouldn't make any difference, that she'd always be
						the same to us. But it's bound to make a difference. A married woman can't be interested
						in the same things that young girls are. Her husband is bound to come first in her
						consideration.
					"Joyce asked her if it didn't make her feel queer to know that her wedding-day was
						coming closer and closer, and quoted that line from 'The Siege of Lucknow,' -- 'Day by day the Bengal tiger nearer  drew and
							closer crept.' She said she'd have a fit if she knew her wedding-day was creeping
						up on her that way. Eugenia was horrified to have her talk that way, and said that it
						was because she didn't know Stuart, and didn't know what it meant to care enough for a
						man to be glad to join her life to his, forever and ever. There was such a light in her
						eyes as she talked about him, that we didn't say anything more for awhile, just wondered
						how it must feel to be so supremely happy as she is. There is no doubt about it, he is
						certainly the one written for her in the stars, for he measures up to every ideal of
						hers, as faultlessly 'as the falcon's feathers fit the falcon.'
					"We had heard so much from her and Phil about Doctor Miles Bradford, Stuart's friend
						who is coming with him to be one of the ushers, that we dreaded meeting him. When she
						told us that he is from Boston and belongs to one of its most exclusive families, and is
						very conventional, and twenty-five years old, Joyce nicknamed him 'The Pilgrim Father,'
						and vowed she woudn't have him for her attendant; that I had to take him and let her
						walk in with Rob. She said she'd shock him with her wild west slang and uncivilized
						ways, and that  I was the literary lady of the
						establishment, and would know how to entertain such a personage.
					"I was just as much afraid of him as she was, and wanted Rob myself, so we squabbled
						over it all the way up and down the avenue. We were walking five abreast, swinging
						hands. When we got to the gate we saw some one coming up the road, and we all stood in a
						row, peeping out between the bars till we saw that it was Rob himself. Then Joyce said
						that we would make him decide the matter -- that we'd all put our hands through the bars
						as if we had something in them, and make him choose which he'd take, right or left. If
						he said right, I could have him for my attendant and she'd take Doctor Bradford, but if
						he said left I'd have to put up with the Pilgrim Father, and she'd take Rob.
					"He came along bareheaded, swinging his hat in his hand, and we were so busy explaining
						to him that he was to choose which hand he'd take, right or left, that we did not notice
						that he had a kodak hidden behind his hat. He held it up in front of him, and bowed and
						scraped and did all sorts of ridiculous things to keep us from noticing what he was
						doing, till all of a sudden we heard the shutter click and he gave a whoop and said,
						'There! That will be one of the best pictures in my collection. 
						

							"'ALL YOU GIRLS STANDING WITH YOUR HANDS STUCK THROUGH THE BARS'"

						
						
						 "All you girls standing with your hands stuck through the
						bars, like monkeys at the Zoo, begging for peanuts. I don't know whether to call it
						"Behind the Bars," or "Don't Feed the Animals."'
					"Then Lloyd said he shouldn't come in for making such a speech, and he sat down on the
						grass and began to sing in a ridiculous way, the old song that goes: 
								"'Oh, angel, sweet angel, I pray thee
								Set the beautiful gates ajar.'
							
					"He was off the key, as he usually is when he sings without an accompaniment, and it
						was so funny, such a howl of a song, that we laughed till the tears came. Then he said
						he'd name the picture 'At the Gate of Paradise,' and make a foot-note to the effect that
						she was a Peri, if she'd let him in.
					"After awhile she said she'd let him in to Paradise if he could name one good deed he'd
						ever done that had benefited human kind. He said certainly he could, and that he
						wouldn't have to dig it up from the dead past. He could give it to her hot from the
						griddle, for only ten minutes before he had completed arrangements for the evening's
						entertainment of the bridal party.
					"Lloyd opened the gate in a hurry then, and fairly begged him to come in, for we had
						been wild  all week to know what godmother had decided
						upon. She only laughed when we teased her to tell us, and said we'd see. We were sure it
						would be something very elegant and formal. Maybe a real grown-up affair, with an
						orchestra from town and distinguished strangers to meet the three fathers, Eugenia's,
						Stuart's and the Pilgrim F.
					"We couldn't believe Rob when he told us that we were to go on a coon
							hunt, and went racing up to the house to ask godmother herself.
					"And she said yes, she was sure they would enjoy a glimpse of real country Southern
						life, and some of our informal fun, far more than the functions they could attend any
						time in the East. Besides she wanted everybody to keep in mind that we were still little
						schoolgirls, even if we were to be bridesmaids, and that was why she was taking us all
						off to the woods for an old-time country frolic, instead of having a grand dinner or a
						formal dance.
					"Then Rob asked us if we didn't want to beg his pardon for doubting his word, but Lloyd
						told him no, that 
							
								"'The truth itself is not believed
								From one who often has deceived.'
							
						 "Then we tried to make him choose which he'd have, right or left, and held out our
						hands again,  but he said he knew that some great question
						of choice was being involved, and that he would not assume the responsibility. That we'd
						have to draw straws, if we wanted to decide anything. So Eugenia held two blades of
						grass between her palms, and Joyce drew the longest one. I couldn't help groaning, for
						that meant that the Pilgrim Father must fall to my lot.
					"But it didn't seem so bad after I met him. They all came out on the three o'clock
						train with Phil. When the carriage came up from the station we had a grand jubilee.
						Cousin Carl seemed so glad to get back to the Valley, but no gladder than everybody was
						to see him. Stuart is so much like Phil that we felt as if we were already acquainted
						with him. He is very boyish-looking and young, but there is something so dignified and
						gentle in his manner that one feels he is cut out to be a staid old family physician,
						and that in time he will grow into the love and confidence of his patients like
						Maclaren's Doctor of the Old School. But dear old Doctor Tremont is the flower of that family. We all fell in love with him the moment we saw him. It is
						easy to see what he has been to his boys. The very tone in which they call him 'Daddy'
							 shows how they adore him; and he is so sweet and tender
						with Eugenia.
					"Contrasted with him and Cousin Carl, I must say that the Pilgrim Father is not a
						suitable name for Doctor Bradford. Really, with his smooth shaven face, and clear ruddy
						complexion like an Englishman's, he doesn't seem much older than Malcolm. Still his
						dignity is rather awe-full, and his grave manner and Boston accent make him seem sort of
						foreign, so different from the boys whom we have always known. We were afraid at first
						that godmother had made a great mistake in planning to take him on a coon hunt. But it
						turned out that she was right, as she always is. He told us afterward he had never
						enjoyed anything so much in all his life.
					"It was just eight o'clock when we set out on the hunt last night. A big hay-wagon
						drove up to the door with the party from The Beeches already stowed away in it, sitting
						flat on the hay in the bottom. Mrs. Walton was with them, and Miss Allison and Katie
						Mallard and her father, and several others they had picked up on the way.
					"While they were laughing and talking and everybody was being introduced, Alec came
						driving up from the barn with another big wagon, and we 
						all piled into it except Lloyd and Rob, Joyce and Phil. They were on horseback and kept
						alongside of us as outriders. The moon hadn't come up, but the starlight was so bright
						that the road gleamed like a white ribbon ahead of us, and we sang most of the way to
						the woods.
					"Old Unc' Jefferson led the procession on his white mule, with three lanky coon dogs
						following. They struck the trail before we reached our stopping-place, and went dashing
						off into the woods. Unc' Jefferson fairly rolled off his old mule, and threw the rope
						bridle over the first fence-post, and went crashing through the underbrush after them.
						The wagons kept on a few rods farther and landed us on the creek bank, up by the black
						bridge.
					"It seemed as if the whole itinerary of the hunt had been planned for our especial
						benefit, for just as we reached the creek the moon began to roll up through the trees
						like a great golden mill-wheel, and we could see our way about in the woods. Evidently
						the coon's home was in some hollow near our stopping-place, for instead of staying in
						the dense beech woods, up where it would have been hard for us to climb, the first dash
						of the dogs sent him scurrying toward the row of big sycamores that overhang the
						creek.


					



					"It whizzed by us so fast that at first we did not know what had passed us till the
						dogs came tumbling after at breakneck speed. They were such old hands at the game that
						they gave their quarry a bad time of it for awhile, turning and doubling on his tracks
						till we were almost as excited and bewildered as the poor coon. Little Mary Ware just
						stood and wrung her hands, and once when the dogs were almost on him she teetered up and
						down on her tiptoes and squealed.
					"All of a sudden the coon dodged to one side and disappeared. We thought he had
						escaped, but a little later on we heard the dogs baying frantically farther down the
						creek, and Rob shouted that they had treed him, and for everybody to hurry up if they
						wanted to be in at the death. So away we went, helter-skelter, in a wild race down the
						creek bank, godmother, Papa Jack, Cousin Carl, and everybody. It was a rough scramble,
						and as we pitched over rolling stones, and caught at bushes to pull ourselves up, and
						swung down holding on to the saplings, I wondered what Doctor Bradford would think of
						our tomboy ways.
					"Nobody waited to be helped. It was every fellow for himself, we were in such a hurry
						to get to the coon. Lloyd kept far in the lead, ahead of 
						everybody, and Joyce walked straight up a steep bank as if she had been a fly. When we
						got to the tree where the dogs were howling and baying we had to look a long time before
						we could see the coon. Then all we could distinguish was the shine of its eyeballs, for
						it crouched so flat against the limb that it seemed a part of the bark. It was away out
						on the tip-end of one of the highest branches.
					"The only way to get it was to shake it down, and to our surprise, before we knew who
						had volunteered, we saw Doctor Bradford, in his immaculate white flannels, throw off his
						coat and go shinning up the tree like an acrobat in a circus. He had to shake and shake
						the limb before he could dislodge the coon, but at last it let go, and the dogs had it
						before it fairly touched the ground. We girls didn't wait to see what they did with it,
						but stuck our fingers in our ears and tore back to the wagons. Rob made fun of Lloyd
						when she said she didn't see why they couldn't have coon hunts without coon killings,
						and that they ought to have made the dogs let go. They had had the fun of catching it,
						and they ought to be satisfied with that.
					"Joyce whispered to me that the hunt had had one desirable result. It had limbered up
						the Pilgrim Father so thoroughly, that he couldn't be stiff and  dignified again after his acrobatic feat. It really did make a difference,
						for after that he was one of the jolliest men in the party.
					"As it was out of season and old Unc' Jefferson didn't care for the coons, he called
						off the dogs after they had caught one, to show us what the sport was like, and then he
						built us a grand campfire on the creek bank, and we had what Mrs. Walton called the
						sequel. She and Miss Allison and godmother made coffee and unpacked the hampers we had
						brought with us. There was beaten biscuit and fried chicken and iced watermelon, and all
						sorts of good things. As we ate, the moon came up higher and higher, and silvered the
						white trunks of the sycamores till they looked like a row of ghosts standing with
						outstretched arms along the creek. It was so lovely there above the water. All the sweet
						woodsy smells of fern and mint and fallen leaves seem stronger after nightfall.
						Everybody enjoyed the feast so much, and was in such high spirits that we all felt a
						shade of regret that it had to come to an end so soon.
					"There were two boats down by the bridge which we found that Rob had had sent over that
						morning for the occasion. They had brought the oars over in the wagon. Pretty soon we
						saw Eugenia and 
						


							'THEY STEPPED IN AND ROWED OFF DOWN THE SHINING WATERWAY '
						
						
						 Stuart going down toward one of them, a little white
						canvas one, and they stepped in and rowed off down the shining waterway. It was only a
						narrow creek, but the moonlight seemed to glorify it, and we knew that it made them
						think of that boatride that had been the beginning of their happiness, in far-away
						Venice.
					"The other boat was larger. Allison and Miss Bonham, Phil and Lieutenant Stanley went
						out in that. The music of their singing, as it floated back to us was so beautiful, that
						those of us on the bank stopped talking to listen. When they came back presently, Kitty
						and Joyce, Rob and Lieutenant Logan pushed out in it for awhile. They sang too.
					"When the little boat came back, Doctor Bradford asked Lloyd to go out with him, and
						she said she would as soon as she had given her chatelaine watch to her father to keep
						for her. The clasp kept coming unfastened and she was afraid she would lose it."
					Here Betty laid down her pen a moment and sat peering dreamily out between the vines.
						She was about to record a little conversation she had overheard between Lloyd and her
						father as they stood a moment in the bushes behind her, but paused as she reflected that
						it would be like betraying a  confidence to make an entry
						of it in her journal. It would be even worse, since it was no confidence of hers, but a
						matter lying between Lloyd and her father alone.
					She sat tapping the rim of the ink-bottle with her pen as she recalled the
						conversation. "Yes, it's all right for you to go, Lloyd, but wait a moment. Have you my
						silver yardstick with you to-night, dear?"
					"Why of co'se, Papa Jack. What makes you ask such a question?"
					"Well," he answered, "there is so much weaving going on around you lately, and weddings
						are apt to put all sorts of notions into a girl's head. I just wanted to remind you that
						only village lads and shepherd boys are in sight, probably not even a knight, and the
						mantle must be worthy of a prince's wearing, you know."
					Then Lloyd pretended to be hurt, and Betty could tell from her voice just how she
						lifted her head with an air of injured dignity.
					"Remembah I gave you my promise, suh, the promise of a Lloyd. Isn't that enough?"
					"More than enough, my little Hildegarde." As they stepped out of the bushes together
						Betty saw him playfully pinch her cheek. Then Lloyd went 
						on down the bank. Here Betty took up her pen again.
					"When she stepped into the boat the moonlight on her white dress and shining hair made
						her look almost as ethereal and fair as she had in the Elaine tableau. The boats could
						only go as far as the shallows, just a little way below the bridge, so they went back
						and forth a number of times, making such a pretty picture for those who waited on the
						bank.
					"After Doctor Bradford had brought Lloyd back he asked me to go with him, and oh, it
						was so beautiful out there on the water. I'll enjoy the memory of it as long as I live.
						At first I couldn't think of anything to say, and the more I tried to think of something
						that would interest a man like him, the more embarrassed I grew. It was the first time I
						had ever tried to talk to any but old men or the home boys.
					"After we had rowed a little way in silence he turned to me with the jolliest twinkle
						in his eyes and asked me why the boat ought to be called the Mayflower. I was so surprised, I asked him if that was a riddle, and he said no, but he
						wondered if I wouldn't feel that it was the Mayflower because I was adrift in it with
						the Pilgrim Father.


					


					"I was so embarrassed I didn't know what to say, for I couldn't imagine how he had
						found out that we had called him that. I couldn't have talked to him at all if I had
						known what Lloyd told me afterward when we had gone to our room. It seems that by some
						unlucky chance he was left alone with Mary Ware for awhile before dinner. Godmother told
						her to entertain him, and she proceeded to do so by showing him the collection of all
						the kodak pictures Rob had taken of us during the house-party. After he left us
						yesterday morning he went straight to work to develop and print the films he had just
						taken, and when he brought us the copies that afternoon, we were busy, and he slipped
						them into the album with the others without saying anything about them. So none of us
						saw them until Mary came across them in showing them to Doctor Bradford.
					"There was the one of us with our hands thrust through the bars, when we were trying to
						make Rob choose right or left, and one of Joyce and me drawing straws. Neither of us had
						the slightest idea that he had taken us in that act, and Mary was so surprised that she
						gave the whole thing away -- blurted out what we were doing, before she thought that he
						was the Pilgrim Father. Then in her  confusion, to cover
						up her mistake, she began to explain as only Mary Ware can, and the more she explained,
						the more ridiculous things she told about us. Doctor Bradford must have found her vastly
						entertaining from the way he laughed whenever he quoted her, which he did
						frequently.
					"I wish she wouldn't be so alarmingly outspoken when she sings our praises to
						strangers. She gave him to understand that I am a full-fledged author and playwright,
						the peer of any poet laureate who ever held a pen; that Lloyd is a combination of
						princess and angel and halo-crowned saint, and Joyce a model big sister and an all-round
						genius. How she managed in the short time they were alone to tell him as much as she did
						will always remain a mystery.
					"He knew all about Joyce raising bees at the Wigwam to earn money for her art lessons,
						and my nearly going blind at the first house-party, and why we all wear Tusitala rings.
						Only time will reveal what else she told. Maybe, after all, her confidences made things
						easier, for it gave us something to laugh about right in the beginning, and that took
						away the stiff feeling, and we were soon talking like old friends. By the time the boat
						landed I was glad that he had fallen to my lot as 
						attendant instead of Rob, for he is so much more entertaining. He told about a moonlight
						ride he had on the Nile last winter when he was in Egypt, and that led us to talking of
						lotus flowers, and that to Tennyson's poem of the 'Lotus Eaters.' He quoted a verse from
						it which he said was, to him, one of the best comparisons in English verse.

					
						
							''There is sweet music here that softer falls
							Than petals from blown roses on the grass,
							Or night dews upon still waters, between walls
							Of shadowy granite in a gleaming pass.
							
								Music that gentlier on the spirit lies Than tired eyelids upon
									tired eyes.'
							
						
					

					"The other boat-load, far down the creek, was singing 'Sweet and low, wind of the
						western sea,' and he rested on his oars for us to listen. I had often repeated that
						verse to myself when I closed my eyes after a hard day's study. Nothing falls gentlier
						than tired eyelids upon tired eyes, and to have him understand the feeling and admire
						the poem in the same way that I did, was such a pleasant sensation, as if I had come
						upon a delightful unexplored country, full of pleasant surprises.
					"Such thoughts as that about music are the ones I love best, and yet I never would
						dream of  speaking of such things to Rob or Malcolm, who
						are both old and dear friends.
					"After all, the coon hunt proved a very small part of the evening's entertainment, and
						he must have liked it, for I heard him say to godmother, as he bade her good night, that
						if this was a taste of real Kentucky life, he would like a steady diet of it all the
						rest of his days."

				
				

				
					CHAPTER XI.
						THE FOUR-LEAVED CLOVER

					As Betty carefully blotted the last page and placed the stopper in
						the ink-bottle, the clock in the hall began to strike, and she realized that she must
						have been writing fully an hour. The whole household was astir now. She would be late to
						breakfast unless she hurried with her dressing.
					Steps on the gravelled path below the balcony made her peep out between the vines.
						Stuart and Doctor Bradford were coming back from an early stroll about the place. The
						wistaria clung too closely to the trellis for them to see her, but, as they crossed the
						grassy court between the two wings, they looked up at Eugenia's balcony opposite. Betty
						looked too. That bower of golden-hearted roses had drawn her glances more than once that
						morning. Now in the midst of it, in a morning dress of pink, fresh and fair as a blossom
						herself, stood Eugenia, reaching up for a half-blown bud above her head. Her sleeves
						fell back from her  graceful white arms, and as she broke
						the bud from its stem a shower of rose-petals fell on her dusky hair and upturned
						face.
					Then Betty saw that Doctor Bradford had passed on into the house, leaving Stuart
						standing there with his hat in his hand, smiling up at the beautiful picture above
						him.
					"Good morrow, Juliet," he called, softly. "Happy is the bride the sun shines on. Was
						there ever such a glorious morning?"
					"It's perfect," answered Eugenia, leaning out of her rose bower to smile down at
						him.
					"I wonder if the bride's happiness measures up to the morning," he asked. "Mine
						does."
					For answer she glanced around, her finger on her lips as if to warn him that walls have
						ears, and then with a light little laugh tossed the rosebud down to him. "Wait! I'll
						come and tell you," she said.
					Betty, gathering up her writing material, saw him catch the rose, touch it to his lips
						and fasten it in his coat. Then, conscience-smitten that she had seen the little by-play
						not intended for other eyes, she bolted back into her room through the window, so
						hurriedly that she struck her head against the  sash with
						a force which made her see stars for several minutes.
					The first excitement after breakfast was the arrival of the bride's cake. Aunt Cindy
						had baked it, the bride herself had stirred the charms into it, but it had been sent to
						Louisville to be iced. Lloyd called the entire family into the butler's pantry to admire
						it, as it sat imposingly on a huge silver salver.
					"It looks as if it might have come out of the Snow Queen's palace," she said, "instead
						of the confectionah's. Wouldn't you like to see the place where those snow-rose garlands
						grow?"
					"Somebody take Phil away from it! Quick!" said Stuart. "Once I had a birthday cake iced
						in pink with garlands of white sugar roses all around it, and he sneaked into the pantry
						before the party and picked off so many of the roses that it looked as if a mouse had
						nibbled the edges. Aunt Patricia put him to bed and he missed the party, but we couldn't
						punish him that way if he should spoil the wedding cake, because we need his services as
						best man. So we'd better remove him from temptation."

					"Look here, son," answered Phil, taking Stuart by the shoulders and pushing him ahead
						of him.  "When it comes to raking up youthful sins you'd
						better lie low. 'I could a tale unfold' that would make Eugenia think that this is 'a
						fatal wedding morn.' If she knew all she wouldn't have you."
					"Then you sha'n't tell anything," declared Lloyd. "I'm not going to be cheated out of
						my share of the wedding, no mattah what a dahk past eithah of you had. Forget it, and
						come and help us hunt the foah-leaf clovahs that Eugenia wants for the dream-cake
						boxes."
					"What are they?" asked Miles Bradford, as he edged out of the pantry after the others.
						Mary happened to be the one in front of him, and she turned to answer, pointing to one
						of the shelves, where lay a pile of tiny heart-shaped boxes, tied with white satin
						ribbons.
					"Each guest is to have one of those," she explained. "There'll be a piece of wedding
						cake in it, and a four-leaf clover if we can find enough to go around. Most people don't
						have the clovers, but Eugenia heard about them, and she wants to try all the customs
						that everybody ever had. You put it under your pillow for three nights, and whatever you
						dream will come true. If you dream about the same person all three nights, that is the
						one you will marry."


					


					"Horrible!" exclaimed he, laughing. "Suppose one has nightmares. Will they come
						true?"
					 Mary nodded gravely. "Mom Beck says so, and Eliot. So did old Mrs. Bisbee. She's the
						one that told Eugenia about the clovers. There was one with her piece of cake from her
						sister's wedding, that she dreamed on nearly fifty years ago. She dreamed of Mr. Bisbee
						three nights straight ahead, and she said there never was a more fortunate wedding.
						They'll celebrate their golden anniversary soon."
					"Miss Mary," asked her listener, solemnly, "do you girls really believe all these signs
						and wonders? I have heard more queer superstitions the few hours I have been in this
						Valley, than in all my life before."
					"Oh, no, we don't really believe in them. Only the darkies do that. But you can't help
						feeling more comfortable when they 'point right' for you than when they don't; like
						seeing the new moon over your right shoulder, you know. And it's fun to try all the
						charms. Eugenia says so many brides have done it that it seems a part of the
						performance, like the veil and the trail and the orange-blossoms."
					They passed from the dining-room into the hall, then out on to the front porch, where
						they stood  waiting for Joyce and Eugenia to get their
						hats. While they waited, Rob Moore joined them, and they explained the quest they were
						about to start upon.
					"Where are you going to take us, Miss Lloyd?" asked Miles Bradford. "According to the
						old legend the four-leaved clover is to be found only in Paradise."
					"Oh, do you know a legend about it?" asked Betty, eagerly. "I've always thought there
						ought to be one."
					"Then you must read the little book, Miss Betty, called 'Abdallah, or the Four-leaved
						Shamrock.' Abdallah was a son of the desert who spent his life in a search for the lucky
						shamrock. He had been taught that it was the most beautiful flower of Paradise. One leaf
						was red like copper, another white like silver, the third yellow like gold, and the
						fourth was a glittering diamond. When Adam and Eve were driven out of the garden, poor
						Eve reached out and clutched at a blossom to carry away with her. In her despair she did
						not notice what she plucked, but, as she passed through the portal, curiosity made her
						open her hand to look at the flower she had snatched. To her joy it was the shamrock.
						But while she looked, a gust of 4}  wind caught up the
						diamond leaf and blew it back within the gates, just as they closed behind her. The name
						of that leaf was Perfect Happiness. That is why men never find it in this world for all
						their searching. It is to be found only in Paradise."
					"Oh, but I don't believe that!" cried Lloyd. "Lots and lots of times I have been
						perfectly happy, and I am suah that everybody must be at some time or anothah in this
						world."
					"Yes, but you didn't stay happy, did you?" asked Joyce, who had come back in time to
						hear part of the legend. "We get glimpses of it now and then, as poor Eve did when she
						opened her hand, but part of it always flies away while we are looking at it. People can
						be contented all the time, and happy in a mild way, but nobody can be perfectly,
						radiantly happy all the time, day in and day out. The legend is right. It is only in
						Paradise that one can find the diamond leaf."
					"Joyce talks as if she were a hundred yeahs old," laughed Lloyd, looking up at Doctor
						Bradford. "Maybe there is some truth in yoah old Oriental legend, but I believe times
						have changed since Abdallah went a-hunting. Phil and I came across a song the othah day
						that I want you all to heah. Maybe it will make you change yoah minds."


					

					Phil protested with many grimaces and much nonsense that he "could not sing the old
						songs now." That he would not "be butchered to make a Roman holiday." But all the time
						he protested, he was stepping toward the piano in a fantastic exaggerated cake-walk that
						set his audience to laughing. At the first low notes of the accompaniment, he dropped
						his foolishness and began to sing in a full, sweet voice that brought the old Colonel to
						the door of his den to listen. Eliot, packing trunks in the upper hall, leaned over the
						banister:

					
						
							"I know a place where the sun is like gold,
							And the cherry blooms burst with snow.
							And down underneath is the loveliest nook
							Where the four-leaf clovers grow.
						
						
							"One leaf is for hope and one is for faith,
							And one is for love you know,
							And God put another one in for luck.
							If you search you will find where they grow.
						
						
							"And you must have hope and you must have faith.
							You must love and be strong, and so
							If you work, if you wait, you will find the place
							Where the four-leaf clovers grow."
						
					

					It was a sweet, haunting melody that accompanied the words, and the gay party of nine,
						strolling toward the orchard, hummed it all the way.
					There in the shade of the big apple-trees, where  the
						clover grew in thick patches, they began their search; all together at first, then in
						little groups of twos and threes, until they had hunted over the entire orchard. Stuart,
						who had been doing more talking than hunting, went to groping industriously around on
						his hands and knees, when they all came together again after an hour's search.
					"Bradford," he said, emphatically," I am beginning to think that you and Miss Joyce are
						right, and that Paradise has a monopoly on the four-leaf kind. I haven't caught a
						glimpse of one. Not even its shadow."
					Lloyd held up a handful. "I found them in several places, thick as hops."
					"Which goes to show," he insisted, "that the song, 'If you work, if you wait, you will
						find the place,' is all a delusion and a snare. You all have worked, and Eugenia and I
						have waited, and only you, who are 'bawn lucky,' have found any. It's pure luck."
					"No," interrupted Miles Bradford, "you can't call strolling around a shady orchard with
						a pretty girl work, and the song does correspond with the legend. Abdallah worked hard
						for his first leaf, dug a well with which to bless the thirsty desert for all time. The
						bit of copper was at the bottom  of it. The effort he made
						for the second almost cost him his life. He rescued a poor slave girl in order to be
						faithful to a trust imposed in him, and taught her the truths of Allah. The silver leaf
						was his reward. He found it in the heathen fetish which she gave him in her gratitude.
						It had been her god.
					"I am not sure about the golden leaf, but I think it was the reward of living a wise
						and honorable life. The day of his birth it was said that he alone wept, while all
						around him rejoiced; and he resolved to live so well that at the day of his death he
						should have no cause for tears, and all around him should mourn. No, I'll not have you
						belittling my hero, Tremont. There was no luck about it whatsoever. He won the first
						three leaves by unselfish service, faithfulness to every trust, and wise, honorable
						living, so that he well deserved that Paradise should bring him perfect happiness."
					"Girls! " cried Betty, her face lighting up, " we must be warm on the trail, with our
						Tusitala rings, our Warwick Hall motto, and our Order of Hildegarde. A Road of the
						Loving Heart is as hard to dig in every one's memory as a well in the desert. If we keep
						the tryst in all things, we're bound  to find the silver
						leaf, and think of the wisdom it takes to weave with the honor of a Hildegarde!"
					Eugenia interrupted her: " Oh, Betty, please write a legend of the
						shamrock for girls that will fit modern times. In the old style there are always three
						brothers or three maidens who start out to find a thing, and only the last one or the
						youngest one is successful. The others all come to grief. In yours give everybody a chance to be happy.
					"There is no reason why every maiden shouldn't find the leaves
						according to the Tusitala rings and Ederyn's motto and Hildegarde's yardstick. And then,
						don't you see, they needn't wait till the end of their lives for the diamond, for the prince will bring it! Don't you see? It is his coming that makes the perfect happiness!"
					Phil laughed. "Stuart's face shows how he appreciates that compliment," he said, "and
						as for me and all the other sons of Adam, oh, fair layde, I make my bow!" Springing to
						his feet, he swept her an elaborate curtsey, holding out his coat as if it were the
						ball-gown of some stately dame in a minuet.
					Lloyd, sitting on the grass with her hands clasped on her knees, looked around the
						circle of smiling  faces, and then gave her shoulders a
						whimsical shrug.
					"That's all right if the prince comes," she exclaimed. "But how is
						one to get the diamond leaf if he doesn't? Mammy Eastah told my fortune in a teacup, and
						she said: 'I see a risin' sun, and a row of lovahs, but I don't see you a-takin' any of
						'em, honey. Yo' ways am ways of pleasantness, and all yo' paths is peace, but I'se
						powahful skeered you'se goin' to be an ole maid. I sholy is, if the teacup signs p'int
						right.'"
					"It will be your own fault, then," answered Phil. "The row of lovers is there in the
						teacup for you. You've only to take your pick."
					"But," began Rob, "maybe it is just as well that she shouldn't choose any of them. The
						prince's coming doesn't always bring happiness. Look at old Mr. Deckly. For thirty years
						he and his fair bride have led a regular cat and dog life. And there are the Twicketts
						and the Graysons and the Blackstones right in this one little valley, to say nothing of
						all the troubles one reads of in the papers."
					"No!" contradicted Eugenia, emphatically. "You have no right to hold them up as
						examples. It is plainly to be seen that Mrs. Deckly and 
						Mrs. Twickett and Mrs. Grayson and Mrs. Blackstone were not Hildegardes. They failed to
						earn their third leaf by doing their weaving wisely. They didn't use their yardsticks.
						They looked only at the 'village churls,' and wove their webs to fit their unworthy
						shoulders, so that the men they married were not princes, and they couldn't bring the
						diamond leaf."
					"The name of the prince need not always be Man, need it?" ventured
						Joyce. "Couldn't it be Success? It seems to me that if I had struggled along for years,
						trying to make the most of my little ability, had worked just as faithfully and wisely
						at my art as I could, it would be perfect happiness to have the world award me the place
						of a great artist. It would be as much to me as the diamond leaf that marriage could
						bring. I should think you'd feel that way, too, Betty, about your writing. There are
						marriages that are failures just as there are artistic and literary careers that are
						failures, and there are diamond leaves to| reward the work and waiting of old maids,
						just as there are diamond leaves to reward the Hildegardes who use their yardsticks.
						Sometimes there are girls who don't marry because they sacrifice their lives to taking
						care of their families, or living for  those who are
						dependent on them. Surely there must be a blessedness and a happiness for them greater
						than any diamond leaf a prince could bring."
					"There is probably," answered Eugenia, "but it seems as if most people of that kind
						have to wait till they get to Paradise to find it."
					"I don't think so," said Betty. "I believe all the dear old-maid aunts and daughters,
							who earn the first three leaves, find the fourth waiting somewhere
						in this world. It is only the selfish ones, who slight their share of the duties life
						imposes on every one, who are cross and unlovely and unloved. They probably would not
						have been happy wives if they had married."
					"Well, but what about me!" persisted Lloyd. "I nevah expect to have a
						career, so Success in big lettahs will nevah bring me a medal or a chromo. I am not
						sacrificing my life for anybody's comfort, and I can nevah have any little nieces and
						nephews to whom I can be one of those deah old aunts Betty talks about, and there is
						that dreadful teacup!"
					She did not hear Doctor Bradford's laughing answer, for Phil, turning his back on the
						others, looked down into her upturned face and began to 
						hum, as if to himself, "From the desert I come to thee!" Only Mary
						understood the significance of it as Lloyd did, and she knew why Lloyd suddenly turned
						away and began passing her hands over the grass around her, as if resuming her search.
						She wanted to hide her face, into which the color was creeping.
					A train whistled somewhere far across the orchard, and Rob took out his watch. The
						sight of it suggested something in line with the conversation, for when he had noted the
						time, he touched the spring that opened the back of the case.
					"Never you mind, Little Colonel," he said, in a patronizing, big-brotherly tone. "If
						nobody else will stand between you and that teacup, I'll come to the
						rescue. Bobby won't go back on his old chum. I'll bring you a
						four-leaf clover. Here's one, all ready and waiting."
					Lloyd looked across at the watch he held out to her. "Law, Bobby," she exclaimed,
						giving him the old name she had called him when they first played together, "I supposed
						you had lost that clovah long ago."
					"Not much," he answered. "It's the finest hoodoo ever was. It helped me through high
						school. I swear I never could have passed in Latin but 
						for your good-luck charm. It's certainly to my interest to hang on to it.
					"Think of it, Mary," he added, seeing that her eyes were round with interest, "that was
						given to me by a princess."
					Mary darted a quick look at Lloyd and another one at him to see if he were teasing.
					"Oh, I see!" she remarked, in a tone of enlightenment.
					"What do you see?" he demanded, laughing.
					She would not answer, but, ignoring his further attempts to make her talk, she, too,
						turned again to search for clovers, inwardly excited over the discovery she thought she
						had made. She would make a note of it in her journal, she decided, something like this:
						"The plot thickens. The B. M. and Sir F. have a rival they little suspect. R. carries
						the charm the M. of H. gave him in years gone by, and I can see many reasons why he
						should be the one to bring her the diamond leaf."
					Only two dozen clovers rewarded their united search, but Eugenia was satisfied. " We'll
						put them in the boxes haphazard," she said, "and the uncertainty of getting one will
						make it more exciting than if there were one for every box."
					The path back to the house led past the kitchen,  where
						several colored women were helping Aunt Cindy. Just as they passed, one of them put her
						head out of the door to call to a group of children crowded around one of the windows of
						the great house. They were watching the decorators at work inside the drawing-room,
						hanging the gate of roses in the arch. The youngest one was perched on a barrel that had
						been dragged up for that purpose, so that his older brothers and sisters might be spared
						the weariness of holding him up to see. A narrow board laid across the top made an
						uneasy and precarious perch for him. He was seated astride, with his bare black legs
						dangling down inside the barrel.
					"You M'haley Gibbs," called the woman, "don't you let Ca'line Allison lean agin that
						bo'd. It'll upset Sweety into the bar'l."
					Her warning came too late, for even as she called the slight board was pushed off its
						foundations by the weight of the roly-poly Ca'line Allison, and the pickaninny went down
						into the barrel as suddenly as a candle is snuffed out by the wind.
					"You M'haley, I'll natcherly lay you out," shrieked the woman, hurrying up the path to
						the rescue. But M'haley, made agile by fifteen years of constant practice, dodged the
						cuffing as it was  about to descend, and scuttled around
						the house to wait till Sweety stopped howling.
					"They are Sylvia Gibbs's children," said Lloyd, in answer to Doctor Bradford's
						astonished comment at seeing so many little negroes in a row. "They can scent a pahty
						five miles away, and they hang around like little black buzzahds waiting for scraps of
						the feast. I suppose they feel they have a right to be heah to-day, as Sylvia is helping
						in the kitchen. They're the same children, Eugenia," she added, "who were heah so much
						when I had my first house-pahty. M'haley is the one who brought you that awful, skinny,
						mottled chicken in a bandbox for you to 'take home on the kyers fo' a pet,' she
						said."
					"So she is!" exclaimed Eugenia, as they passed around the corner of the house and
						caught sight of M'haley, who was peeping out to see if the storm was over, and if it
						would be safe to return to the sightseeing at the window. Her teeth and eyeballs were
						ashine with pleasure when Eugenia passed on, after a pleasant greeting and some
						reference to the chicken. She felt it a great honor to be remembered by the bride, and
						thanked again, after all these years, for her parting gift. She gave a little giggle
						when Lloyd came up, and said, with a coy  self-conscious
						air that was extremely amusing to the Northern man, who had never met this type of the
						race before, "I'se a maid of honah, too, Miss Lloyd."
					"You are!" was the surprised answer. "How does that happen?"
					"Mammy's gwine to git married agin, to Mistah Robinson, and she says nobody has a
						bettah right than me to be maid of honah to her own ma's weddin'. So that's how come she
						toted us all along to you-all's weddin', so that Sweety and Ca'line and the boys could
						learn how to act at her and Mistah Robinson's."
					"When is it to be?" inquired Lloyd.
					"To-morrow night. Mammy's done give her fish-fry and ice-cream festible, and she
						cleahed enough to pay the weddin' expenses. You-all's suah gwine to git an invite, Miss
						Lloyd."
					"It is sort of a benefit," Betty explained to Miles Bradford, as they walked on.
						"Instead of giving a concert or a recital, the colored people here give a fish-fry and
						festival whenever they are in need of money. They used to have them just to raise funds
						for the church, but now it is quite popular for individuals to give them when there is a
						funeral or a wedding to be paid for. I am so glad  you are
						going to stay over a few days. We can show you sights you've never dreamed of in the
						North."
					Eugenia, first to step into the hall, gave a cry of pleasure. The florist and his
						assistants had been there in their absence, and were just leaving. They had turned the
						entire house into a rose-garden. Hall, drawing-room, and library, and the dining-room
						beyond were filled with such lavishness that it seemed as if June herself had taken
						possession, with all her court. Stuart and Eugenia paused before the tall gate of smilax
						and American beauties.
					"It is the Gate into Paradise, sweetheart," he whispered, looking through its
						blossom-covered bars to the altar beyond, that had been built in the bay-window of the
						drawing-room, and covered with white roses.
					"Yes," answered Eugenia, smiling up at him. "The legend is right. We must enter
						Paradise to find the diamond leaf. But I was right, too. It is my prince who will bring
						mine to me."
				


				

				
					CHAPTER XII.
						THE WEDDING

					LUNCH was served on the porch, for the tables for the wedding supper
						were already spread in the dining-room, and Alec had locked the doors that nothing might
						disturb its perfect order.
					"I think we are really going to be able to avoid that last wild rush which usually
						accompanies home weddings," said Mrs. Sherman, as they sat leisurely talking over the
						dessert. "Usually the bridesmaids' gloves are missing, or the bride's slippers have been
						packed into one of the trunks and sent on ahead to the depot. But this time I have tried
						to have everything so perfectly arranged that the wedding will come to pass as quietly
						and naturally as a flower opens. I want to have everything give the impression of having
							bloomed into place."
					"Eliot and Mom Beck are certainly doing their part to make such an impression," said
						Eugenia.  "Eliot has already counted over every article I
						am to wear, a dozen times, and they're all laid out in readiness, even to the 'something
						blue.'"
					"Oh, that reminds me!" began Lloyd, then stopped abruptly. Nobody noticed the
						exclamation, however, but Mary, and, with swift intuition, she guessed what the
						something blue had suggested to the maid of honor. It was that bit of turquoise that
						caused the only scramble in the preparations, for Lloyd could not remember where she had
						put it.
					"I was suah I dropped it into one of the boxes in my top bureau drawer," she said to
						herself on the way up-stairs. Then, with her finger on her lip, she stopped on the
						threshold of the sewing-room to consider. She remembered that when she gave up her room
						to the guests, all the boxes had been taken out of that drawer. Some of them had been
						put in the sewing-room closet, and some carried to a room at the end of the back hall,
						where trunks and hampers were stored.
					Now, while Betty was down-stairs, helping with a few last details, Lloyd took advantage
						of her absence to search all the boxes in the closet and drawers of the sewing-room, but
						the missing turquoise was not in any of them.


					


					"I know I ought to be taking a beauty sleep," she thought, "so I'll be all fresh and
						fine for the evening, but I must find it, for I promised Phil I'd wear it."
					In the general shifting of furniture to accommodate so many guests, several articles
						had found their way back among the trunks. Among them was an old rocking-chair. It was
						drawn up to the window now, and, as Lloyd pushed open the door, to her surprise she
						found Mary Ware half-hidden in its roomy depths. She was tilted back in it with a book
						in her hands.
					Mary was as surprised as Lloyd. She had been so absorbed in the story that she did not
						hear the knob turn, and as the hinges suddenly creaked, she started half out of her
						chair.
					"Oh!" she exclaimed, settling back when she saw it was only Lloyd. "You frightened me
						nearly out of my wits. I didn't know that anybody ever came in here." Then she seemed to
						feel that some explanation of her presence was necessary.
					"I came in here because our room is full of clothes, spread out ready to wear. They're
						all over the room, -- mine on one side and Joyce's on the other. I was so afraid I'd
						forget and flop down on  them, or misplace something, that
						I came in here to read awhile. It makes the afternoon go faster. Seems to me it never
						will be time to dress."
					Lloyd stood looking at the shelves around the room, then said: "If time hangs so heavy
						on yoah hands, I believe I'll ask you to help me hunt for something I have lost. It's
						just a trifle, and maybe it is foolish for me to try to find it now, when everything is
						in such confusion, but it is something that I want especially."
					"I'd love to help hunt," exclaimed Mary, putting down her book and holding out her arms
						to take the boxes which Lloyd was reaching down from the shelves. One by one she piled
						them on a packing-trunk behind her, and then climbed up beside them, sitting Turk
						fashion in their midst, and leaving the chair by the window for Lloyd.
					"It's just a scrap of unset turquoise," explained Lloyd, as she unwrapped a small
						package, "no larger than one of the beads on this fan-chain. I was in a big hurry when I
						dropped it into my drawer, and I didn't notice which box I put it in. So we'll have to
						take out all these ribbons and laces and handkerchiefs and sachet-bags."
					It was the first time during her visit that Mary had been entirely alone with her
						adored Princess,  and to be with her now in this intimate
						way, smoothing her dainty ribbons, peeping into her private boxes, and handling her
						pretty belongings, gave her a pleasure that was indescribable.
					"Shall I open this, too?" she asked, presently, picking up a package wrapped in an old
						gauze veil.
					Lloyd glanced up. "Yes; although I haven't the slightest idea what it can be."
					A faint, delicious odor stole out as Mary unwound the veil, an odor of sandalwood, that
						to her was always suggestive of the "Arabian Nights," of beautiful Oriental things, and
						of hidden treasures in secret panels of old castles.
					"I've hunted for that box high and low!" cried Lloyd, reaching forward to take it. "Mom
						Beck must have wrapped it so, to keep the dust out of the carving. I nevah thought of
						looking inside that old veil for anything of any account. I think moah of what it holds
						than any othah ornament I own."
					Mary watched her curiously as she threw back the lid and lifted out a necklace of
						little Roman pearls. Lloyd dangled it in front of her, lifting the shining string its
						full length, then letting it slip back into her palm, where it lay a shimmering mass  of tiny lustrous spheres. Regarding it intently, she said,
						with one of those unaccountable impulses which sometimes seize people:
					"Mary, I've a great mind to tell you something I've nevah yet told a soul, -- how it
						was I came to make this necklace. I believe I'll weah it when I stand up at the altah
						with Eugenia. It seems the most appropriate kind of a necklace that a maid of honah
						could weah."
					The story of Ederyn and the king's tryst was fresh in Mary's mind, for Betty had told
						it at the lunch-table half an hour before, in answer to Doctor Bradford's question about
						the motto of Warwick Hall; the motto which Betty declared was a surer guide-post to the
						silver leaf of the magic shamrock than the one Abdallah followed.
					"I can't undahstand," began Lloyd, "why I should be telling this to a little thing like
						you, when I hid it from Betty as if it were a crime. I knew she would think it a
						beautiful idea, -- marking each day with a pearl when its duties had been well done, but
						I was half-afraid that she would think it conceited of me -- conceited for me to count
						that any of my days were perfect enough to be marked with a pearl. But it wasn't that I
						thought them so. It was only that I tried my hardest to 
						make the most of them, -- in my classes and every way, you know."
					As Lloyd went on, telling of the times she had failed and times she had succeeded, Mary
						felt as if she were listening to the confessions of a white Easter lily. It seemed
						perfectly justifiable to her that Lloyd should have had tantrums, and stormed at the
						doctor when he forbade her going back to school after the Christmas vacation, and that
						she should have cried and moped and made everybody around her miserable for days. Mary's
						overweening admiration for the Princess carried her to the point of feeling that
						everybody ought to be miserable when she was unhappy. In Mary's
						opinion it was positively saintly of her the way she took up her rosary again after
						awhile, trying to string it with tokens of days spent unselfishly at home; days
						unstained by regrets and tears and idle repinings for what could not be helped.
					Mary laughed over the story of one hard-earned pearl, the day spent in making pies and
						cleaning house for the disagreeable old Mrs. Perkins, who didn't want to be reformed,
						and who wouldn't stay clean.
					"I haven't the faintest idea why I told you all this," said Lloyd at last, once more
						lifting the string  to watch the light shimmer along its
						lustrous length. "But now you see why I prize this little rosary so highly. It was what
						lifted me out of my dungeon of disappointment."
					Afterward Mary thought of a dozen things she wished she had said to Lloyd while they
						were there together in the privacy of the trunk-room. She wished she had let her know in
						some way how much she admired her, and longed to be like her, and how she was going to
						try all the rest of her life to be a real maid of honor, worthy in every way of her love
						and confidence. But some shy, unusual feeling of constraint crowded the unspoken words
						back into her throbbing little throat, and the opportunity passed.
					Clasping the pearls around her neck, Lloyd picked up the sandalwood box again and shook
						it. "Heah's a lot of loose beads of all kinds, with as many colahs as a kaleidoscope.
						You do bead-work, don't you, Mary? You may have these if you can use them."
					In response to her eager acceptance, Lloyd looked around for something to pour the
						beads into. "There's an empty cologne bottle on that shelf above yoah head. If you will
						reach it down, I'll poah them into that."


					


					Beads of various sizes and colors, from garnet to amber, poured in a rainbow stream
						from the box to the wide-necked bottle. Here and there was the glint of cut steel and
						the gleam of crystal, and several times Mary noticed a little Roman pearl like those on
						the rosary, and thought with a thrill of the necklace she intended to begin making that
						very day. Suddenly Lloyd gave an exclamation and reversed the gay-colored stream,
						pouring it slowly back into the box from the bottle.
					"I thought I saw that turquoise," she cried. "I remembah now, it was in my hand when I
						took off my necklace, and I must have dropped them in heah togethah."
					She parted the beads with a cautious forefinger, pushing them aside one at a time.
						Presently a bit of blue rolled uppermost, and she looked up triumphantly. "There it
						is!"
					Mary flushed guiltily at sight of the turquoise, wondering what Lloyd would think if
						she knew that she had overheard what Phil had said about that bit of something blue. She
						went back to her chair and her book by the window after Lloyd left, but the book lay
						unopened in her lap. She had many things to think of while she slowly turned the bottle
						between herself and the light and watched its  shifting
						colors. Several times a black bead appeared among the others.
					"I'd have had to use black beads more than once," she reflected, "if I had been making a rosary, for there's the day I was so rude to Girlie
						Dinsmore, and the awful time when I got so interested that I eavesdropped."

					The wedding was all that Mrs. Sherman had planned, everything falling into place as
						beautifully and naturally as the unfolding of a flower. The assembled guests seated in
						the great bower of roses heard a low, soft trembling of harp-strings deepen into chords.
						Then to this accompaniment two violins began the wedding-march, and the great gate of
						roses swung wide. As Stuart and his best man entered from a side door and took their
						places at the altar in front of the old minister, the rest of the bridal party came down
						the stairs: Betty and Miles Bradford first, Joyce and Rob, then the maid of honor
						walking alone with her armful of roses. After her came the bride with her hand on her
						father's arm.
					Just at that instant some one outside drew back the shutters in the bay-window, and a
						flood of late afternoon sunshine streamed across the room, the  last golden rays of the perfect June day making a path of light from the
						gate of roses to the white altar. It shone full across Eugenia's face, down on the
						long-trained shimmering satin, the little gleaming slippers, the filmy veil that
						enveloped her, the pearls that glimmered white on her white throat.
					Eliot, standing in a corner, nervously watching every movement with twitching lips,
						relaxed into a smile. "It's a good omen!" she said, half under her breath, then gave a
						startled glance around to see if any one had heard her speak at such an improper
						time.
					The music grew softer now, so faint and low it seemed the mere shadow of sound. Above
						the rare sweetness of that undertone of harp and violins rose the words of the ceremony:
							"I, Stuart, take thee, Eugenia, to be my wedded wife."
					Mary, standing at her post by the rose gate, felt a queer little chill creep over her.
						It was so solemn, so very much more solemn than she had imagined it would be. She
						wondered how she would feel if the time ever came for her to stand in Eugenia's place,
						and plight her faith to some man in that way -- "for better, for worse, for
							richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, until death us do part."


					



					Eliot was crying softly in her comer now. Yes, getting married was a terribly solemn
						thing. It didn't end with the ceremony and the pretty clothes and the shower of
						congratulations. That was only the beginning. "For better, for worse,"
						-- that might mean all sorts of trouble and heartache. "Sickness and
							death," -- it meant to be bound all one's life to one person, morning, noon, and
						night. How very, very careful one would have to be in choosing, -- and then suppose one
						made a mistake and thought the man she was marrying was good and honest and true, and he
							wasn't! It would be all the same, for "for better, for
							worse," ran the vow, "until death us do part."
					Then and there, holding fast to the gate of roses, Mary made up her mind that she could
						never, never screw her courage up to the point of taking the vows Eugenia was taking, as
						she stood with her hand clasped in Stuart's, and the late sunshine of the sweet June day
						streaming down on her like a benediction.
					"It's lots safer to be an old maid," thought Mary. "I'll take my chances getting the
						diamond leaf some other way than marrying. Anyhow, if I ever should make a choice, I'll
						ask somebody else's opinion, like I do when I go shopping, so I'll be  sure I'm getting a real prince, and not an imitation
						one."
					It was all over in another moment. Harp and violins burst into the joyful notes of
						Mendelssohn's march, and Stuart and Eugenia turned from the altar to pass through the
						rose gate together. Lloyd and Phil followed, then the other attendants in the order of
						their entrance. On the wide porch, screened and canopied with smilax and roses, a cool
						green out-of-doors reception-room had been made. Here they stood to receive their
						guests.
					Mary, in all the glory of her pink chiffon dress and satin slippers, stood at the end
						of the receiving line, feeling that this one experience was well worth the long journey
						from Arizona. So thoroughly did she delight in her part of the affair, and so heartily
						did she enter into her duties, that more than one guest passed on, smiling at her
						evident enjoyment.
					"I wish this wedding could last a week," she confided to Lieutenant Logan, when he
						paused beside her. "Don't you know, they did in the fairytales, some of them. There was
						'feasting and merrymaking for seventy days and seventy nights.' This one is going by so
						fast that it will soon be train-time. I don't suppose they care," she
						added, with a nod toward the bride, "for they're going  to
						spend their honeymoon in a Gold of Ophir rose-garden, where there are goldfish in the
						fountains, and real orange-blossoms. It's out in California, at Mister Stuart's
						grandfather's. Elsie, his sister, couldn't come, so they're going out to see her, and
						take her a piece of every kind of cake we have to-night, and a sample of every kind of
						bonbon. Don't you wonder who'll get the charms in the bride's cake? That's the only
						reason I am glad the clock is going so fast. It will soon be time to cut the cake, and
						I'm wild to see who gets the things in it."
					The last glow of the sunset was still tinting the sky with a tender pink when they were
						summoned to the dining-room, but indoors it had grown so dim that a hundred rose-colored
						candles had been lighted. Again the music of harp and violins floated through the
						rose-scented rooms. As Mary glanced around at the festive scene, the tables gleaming
						with silver and cut glass, the beautiful costumes, the smiling faces, a line from her
						old school reader kept running through her mind: "And all went merry as a
							marriage-bell! And all went merry as a marriage-bell!"
					It repeated itself over and over, through all the gay murmur of voices as the supper
						went on,  through the flowery speech of the old Colonel
						when he stood to propose a toast, through the happy tinkle of laughter when Stuart
						responded, through the thrilling moment when at last the bride rose to cut the mammoth
						cake. In her nervous excitement, Mary actually began to chant the line aloud, as the
						first slice was lifted from the great silver salver: "All went merry -- " Then she
						clapped her hand over her mouth, but nobody had noticed, for Allison had drawn the
						wedding-ring, and a chorus of laughing congratulations was drowning out every other
						sound.
					As the cake passed on from guest to guest, Betty cried out that she had found the
						thimble. Then Lloyd held up the crystal charm, the one the bride had said was doubly
						lucky, because it held imbedded in its centre a four-leaved clover. Nearly every slice
						had been crumbled as soon as it was taken, in search of a hidden token, but Mary, who
						had not dared to hope that she might draw one, began leisurely eating her share.
						Suddenly her teeth met on something hard and flat, and glancing down, she saw the edge
						of a coin protruding from the scrap of cake she held.
					"Oh, it's the shilling!" she exclaimed, in such open-mouthed astonishment that every
						one laughed,  and for the next few moments she was the
						centre of the congratulations. Eugenia took a narrow white ribbon from one of the
						dream-cake boxes, and passed it through the hole in the shilling, so that she could hang
						it around her neck.
					"Destined to great wealth!" said Rob, with mock solemnity. "I always did think I'd like
						to marry an heiress. I'll wait for you, Mary."
					"No," interrupted Phil, laughing, "fate has decreed that I should be the lucky man.
						Don't you see that it is Philip's head with Mary's on that shilling?"
					"Whew!" teased Kitty. "Two proposals in one evening, Mary. See what the charm has done
						for you already!"
					Mary knew that they were joking, but she turned the color of her dress, and sat
						twiddling the coin between her thumb and finger, too embarrassed to look up. They sat so
						long at the table that it was almost train-time when Eugenia went up-stairs to put on
						her travelling-dress. She made a pretty picture, pausing midway up the stairs in her
						bridal array, the veil thrown back, and her happy face looking down on the girls
						gathered below. Leaning far over the banister with the bridal bouquet in her hands, she
						called:


					


					
						
							"Now look, ye pretty maidens, standing all a-row,
							The one who catches this, the next bouquet shall throw."
						
					

					There was a laughing scramble and a dozen hands were outstretched to receive it. "Oh,
						Joyce caught it! Joyce caught it!" cried Mary, dancing up and down on the tips of her
						toes, and clapping her hands over her mouth to stifle the squeal of delight that had
						almost escaped. "Now, some day I can be maid of honor."
					"So that's why you are so happy over your sister's good fortune, is it?" asked Phil,
						bent on teasing her every time opportunity offered.
					"No," was the indignant answer. "That is some of the reason, but I'm gladdest because
						she didn't get left out of everything. She didn't get one of the cake charms, so I hoped
						she would catch the bouquet."
					When the carriage drove away at last, a row of shiny black faces was lined up each side
						of the avenue. All the Gibbs children were there, and Aunt Cindy's other grandchildren,
						with their hands full of rice.
					"Speed 'em well, chillun!" called old Cindy, waving her apron. The rice fell in showers
						on the top of the departing carriage, and two little white slippers were sent flying
						along after it, with such  force that they nearly struck
						Eliot, sitting beside the coachman. Tired as she was, she turned to smile approval, for
						the slippers were a good omen, too, in her opinion, and she was happy to think that
						everything about her Miss Eugenia's wedding had been carried out properly, down to this
						last propitious detail.
					As the slippers struck the ground, quick as a cat, M'haley darted forward to grab them.
						"Them slippahs is mates!" she announced, gleefully, "and I'm goin' to tote 'em home for
						we-all's wedding. I kain't squeeze into 'em myself, but Ca'line Allison suah kin."
					Once more, and for the last time, Eugenia leaned out of the carriage to look back at
						the dear faces she was leaving. But there was no sadness in the farewell. Her prince was
						beside her, and the Gold of Ophir rose-garden lay ahead.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XIII.
						DREAMS AND WARNINGS

					"IT'S all ovah now!" exclaimed Lloyd, stifling a yawn and looking
						around the deserted drawing-room, where the candles burned low in their sconces, and the
						faded roses were dropping their petals on the floor. Mr. Forbes and Doctor Tremont had
						just driven away to catch the midnight express for New York, and the last guest but Rob
						had departed.
					"It's all over with that gown of yours, too, isn't it?" asked Phil, glancing at the
						airy pink skirt, down whose entire front breadth ran a wide, zig-zag rent. "It's too
						bad, for it's the most becoming one I've seen you wear yet. I'm sorry it must be retired
						from public life so early in its career."
					Lloyd drew the edges of the largest holes together. "Yes, it's ruined beyond all hope,
						for I stepped cleah through it when I tripped on the stairs, and it pulled apart in at
						least a dozen places,  just as a thin veil would. But
						you'll see it again, and on anothah maid of honah. M'haley nevah waited to see if I was
						hurt, but pounced on it and began to beg for it befoah I got my breath again. She said
						she could fix it good enough for her to weah to her mammy's wedding. She would 'turn it
						hine side befo'' and tie her big blue sash ovah it. Imagine! She'll be heah at the break
						of day to get it."
					"Do you know it is almost that time now?" asked Betty, coming in from the dining-room
						with seven little heart-shaped boxes. "Here's our cake, and godmother says we'd better
						take it and go to dreaming on it soon, or the sun will be up before we get started."
					"Now remembah," warned Lloyd, as Rob slipped his box into his pocket and began looking
						around for his hat, "we have all promised to tell our dreams to each othah in the
						mawning. We'll wait for you, so come ovah early. Come to breakfast."

					"Thanks. I'll be on hand all right. I'll probably have to wake the rest of you."
					"Don't you do it!" exclaimed Phil. "I'll warn you now, if you're waking, don't call me early, mother, dear. If you do, to-morrow won't be the  happiest day of all your glad New Year.
						I'll promise you that. How about you, Bradford?"
					"Oh, I'm thinking of sitting up all night," he answered, laughing, "to escape having
						any dreams. Miss Mary assures me they will come true, and one might have a nightmare
						after such a spread as that wedding-supper. I can hardly afford to take such risks."
					A moment after, Rob's whistle sounded cheerfully down the avenue and Alec was going
						around the house, putting out the down-stairs lights. Late as it was, when they reached
						their room, Joyce stopped to smooth every wrinkle out of her bridesmaid dress, and
						spread it out carefully in the tray of her trunk.
					"It is so beautiful," she said, as she plumped the sleeves into shape with
						tissue-paper. "As long as an accident had to happen to one of us it was lucky that it
						was Lloyd's dress that was torn. She has so many she wouldn't wear it often anyhow, and
						this will be my best evening gown all summer. I expect to get lots of good out of it at
						the seashore."
					"I'm glad it wasn't mine that was torn," responded Mary, following Joyce's example and
						folding hers away also, with many loving pats. "Probably there'll be a good many times I
						can wear it  here this summer, but there'll never be a
						chance on the desert, and I shall have outgrown it by next summer, so when I go home I'm
						going to lay it away in rose-leaves with these darling little satin slippers, because
						I've had the best time of my life in them. In the morning Betty and I are going to pick
						all the faded roses to pieces and save the petals. Eugenia wants to fill a rose-jar with
						part of them. Betty knows how to make that potpourri that Lloyd's Grandmother Amanthis
						always kept in the rose-jars in the drawing-room. She's copied the receipt for me.
					"I'm not a bit sleepy," she continued. "I've had such a beautiful time I could lie
						awake all the rest of the night thinking about it. Maybe it's because I drank coffee
						when I'm not used to it that I'm so wide awake, and I ate -- oh, how I
						ate!"
					One by one the up-stairs lights went out, and a deep silence fell on the old mansion.
						The ticking of the great clock on the stairs was the only sound. The serene peace of the
						starlit night settled over The Locusts like brooding wings. The clock struck one, then
						two, and the long hand was half-way around its face again before any other sound but the
						musical chime broke the stillness. Then a succession of strangled moans began to
						penetrate  the consciousness of even the soundest sleeper.
						Whoever it was that was trying to call for help was evidently terrified, and the terror
						of the cries sent a cold chill through every one who heard them.
					"It's burglars," shrieked Lloyd, sitting up in bed. "Papa Jack! They're in Joyce's
						room! They're trying to strangle her! Papa Jack!"
					Lights glimmered in every room, and doors flew open along the hall. A dishevelled
						little group in bath-robes and pajamas rushed out, Mr. Sherman with a revolver, Miles
						Bradford with a heavy Indian club, and Phil with his walking-stick with the electric
						battery in its head. He flashed it like a search-light up and down the hall.
					At the first moan, Joyce had wakened, and realizing that it came from Mary's corner of
						the room, began to grope on the table beside her bed for matches. Her fingers trembled
						so she could scarcely muster strength to scratch the match when she found it. Then she
						glanced across the room and began to laugh hysterically.
					"It's all right!" she called. "Nobody's killed! Mary's just having a nightmare!"
					By this time Mr. Sherman had opened the door, and the blinding glare of Phil's electric
						light flashed full in Mary's eyes. At the same instant Lloyd  opened the door on the other side, between the two rooms, and Betty and Mrs.
						Sherman followed her in. So when Mary struggled back to wakefulness far enough to sit up
						and look around in a dazed way, the room seemed full of people and lights and voices,
						and she tried to ask what had happened. She was still sobbing and trembling.
					"What's the matter, Mary?" called Phil from the hall. "Were the Indians after you
						again? "
					"Oh, it was awfuller than Indians," wailed Mary, in a shrill, excited voice. "It was
						the worst nightmare I ever had! I can't shake it off. I'm scared yet."
					"Tell us about it," said Mrs. Sherman, soothingly. "That's the best remedy, for the
						terror always evaporates in the telling, and makes one wonder how anything foolish could
						have seemed frightful."
					"I-- was being married," wailed Mary, "to a man I couldn't see. And just as soon as it
						was over he turned from the altar and said, 'Now we'll begin to lead a
						cat and dog life.' And, oh, it was so awful," she continued, sobbingly, the terror of
						the dream still holding her, "he -- he barked at me! And he showed his
						teeth, and I had to spit and mew and hump my back whether I wanted to or not."  Her voice grew higher and more excited with every sentence.
						"And I could feel my claws growing longer and longer, and I knew I'd never have fingers
						again, only just paws with fur on 'em! Ugh! It made me sick to feel the fur growing over
						me that way. I cried and cried. Now as I tell about it, it begins to sound silly, but it
						was awful then, -- so dark, and me hanging by my claws to the edge of the wood-shed
						roof, ready to drop off. I thought Phil was in the house, and I tried to call him, but I
						couldn't remember his name. I got mixed up with the Philip on the shilling, and I kept
						yelling, Shill! Philling! Shilling! and I couldn't make him understand. He wouldn't
						come!"
					As she picked up the corner of the sheet to wipe her eyes Mrs. Sherman and the girls
						burst out laughing, and there was an echoing peal of amusement in the hall. The affair
						would not have seemed half so ridiculous in the daylight, but to be called out of bed at
						that hour to listen to such a dream, told only as Mary Ware could tell it, impressed the
						entire family as one of the funniest things that had ever happened. They laughed till
						the tears came.
					"I don't see what ever put such a silly thing into my head," said Mary, finally,
						beginning to feel  mortified as she realized what an
						excitement she had created for nothing.
					"It was Rob's talking about people who live a regular cat and dog life," said Betty.
						"Don't you remember how long we talked about it to-day down in the clover-patch?"
					"You mean yesterday," prompted Phil from the hall, "for it's nearly morning now. And,
						Mary, I'll tell you why you had it. It's a warning! A solemn warning! It means that you
						must never, never marry."
					"That's what I thought, too," quavered Mary, so seriously that they all laughed
						again.
					"I hope everybody will excuse me for waking them up," called Mary, as they began to
						disperse to their rooms. "Oh, dear!" she added to Joyce, as she lay back once more on
						her pillow. "Why is it that I am always doing such mortifying things! I am so ashamed of myself."
					The lights went out again, and after a few final giggles from Lloyd and Betty, silence
						settled once more over the house. But the terror of the nightmare had taken such hold
						upon Mary that she could not close her eyes.
					"Joyce," she whispered, "do you mind if I come  over into
						your bed? I'm nearly paralyzed, I'm so scared again."
					Slipping across the floor as soon as Joyce had given a sleepy consent, Mary crept in
						beside her sister in the narrow bed, and lay so still she scarcely breathed, for fear of
						disturbing her. Presently she reached out and gently clasped the end of Joyce's long
						plait of hair. It was comforting to be so near her. But even that failed to convince her
						entirely that the dream was a thing of imagination. It seemed so real, that several
						times before she fell asleep she laid her hands against her face to make sure that her
						fingers had not developed claws, and that no fur had started to grow on them.
					The dreams told around the breakfast-table next morning seemed tame in comparison to
						Mary's recital the night before. Rob had had none at all, which was interpreted to mean
						that he would live and die an old bachelor. Miles Bradford had a dim recollection of
						being in an automobile with a girl who seemed to be a sort of a human kaleidoscope, for
						her face changed as the dream progressed, until she had looked like every woman he ever
						knew. They could think of no interpretation for that dream. Lloyd's was fully as
						indefinite.
					"I thought I was making a cake," she said, "and  there
						was a big bowl of eggs on the table. But every time I started to break one Mom Beck
						would say, 'Don't do that, honey. Don't you see it is somebody's haid?' And suah enough,
						every egg I took up had somebody's face on it, like those painted Eastah eggs; Rob's,
						and Phil's, and Malcolm's, and Doctah Bradford's, and evah so many I'd nevah seen
						befoah."
					"A very appropriate dream for a Queen of Hearts," said Phil, "and anybody can see it's
						only a repetition of Mammy Easter's fortune, the 'row of lovahs in the teacup.' Tell us
						which one you are going to choose."
					"It's Joyce's turn," was the only answer Lloyd would make.
					"And my dream was positively brilliant," replied Joyce. "I thought we were all at The
						Beeches, and Allison, and Kitty, and all of us were making Limericks. Kitty began: 
							
								"'There was a lieutenant named Logan,
								Who found one day a small brogan.'"
							
						 Then she stuck, and couldn't get any farther, and Allison had to be smart and pun
						on my name She made up a line: "'So what will Joyce Ware if she meets a great
							bear?'"
						 Nobody could get the last rhyme for awhile, but after
						floundering around a few minutes I had a sudden inspiration and sprang up and struck an
						attitude as if I were on the stage, and solemnly thundered out: "'And how can he
							shoot him with no gun?'

					"In my dream it seemed the most thrilling thing -- I was the heroine of the hour, and
						Lieutenant Logan took me aside and told me that the question which I had embodied in
						that last line was the question of the ages. It had staggered the philosophers and
						scientists of all times. Nobody could answer that question -- 'how can he shoot him with
							no gun,' and he was a better and a happier man, to think that I had
						rhymed that ringing query with the proud name of Logan. It's the silliest dream I ever
						had, but you can't imagine how real it seemed at the time. I was so stuck up over his
						compliments that I began flouncing around with my head held high, like the picture of
						'Oh, fie! you haughty Jane.'"
					"Oh, Joyce, what a dream to dream on wedding-cake!" exclaimed Mary, with a long indrawn
						breath. There was no mistaking her interpretation of it. Everybody laughed, and Joyce
						hastened to  227 explain, "It isn't worth anything, Mary.
						It'll never come true, for just before I came down-stairs to breakfast I discovered my
						little box of cake lying on the table under a pile of ribbons. It had been there all
						night. I had forgotten to put it under my pillow. And," she added, cutting short Mary's
						exclamation of disappointment, "your box lay beside it. We both were
						so busy putting away our dresses, and talking over the wedding that we forgot the most
						important thing of all."
					"Well, I'm certainly glad that mine wasn't under my head when I had that dreadful
						nightmare!" exclaimed Mary, in such a relieved tone that every one laughed again. "I
						couldn't help taking it as a warning."
					"Joyce and I must have changed places in our sleep," said Betty, when her turn came.
						"She was making verses, and I was trying to draw. But I did my drawing with a thimble. I
						thought some one said, 'Betty always likes to put her finger in everybody's pie, and now
						she has a fate thimble to wear on it, she'll mix up things worse than ever.' And I said,
						'No, I'll be very conservative, and only make a diagram of the way the animals should go
						into the ark, and then let them do as they please about following my diagram.' So I
						began to draw  with the thimble on my finger, but instead
						of animals going into the ark they were people going over Tanglewood stile into the
						churchyard, and then into the church-- a great procession of people in the funniest
						combinations. There was old Doctor Shelby and the minister's great-aunt, Allison and
						Lieutenant Stanley, Kitty and Doctor Bradford, Lloyd and Rob, and dozens and dozens
						besides."
					"Lloyd and Rob," echoed the Little Colonel, her face dimpling. "Think of that, Bobby!
						You nevah in yoah wildest dreams thought of that combination, now did you?"
					"No, I never did," confessed Rob, with an amused smile. "Betty has just put it into my
						head. She is like the old woman who told her children not to put beans in their ears
						while she was gone. They never would have dreamed of doing such a thing if she hadn't
						suggested it, but, of course, they wanted to see how it would feel, and immediately
						proceeded to fill their ears with beans as soon as her back was turned."
					"You can profit by their example," laughed Lloyd. "They found that it hurt. It would
						have been bettah if they had paid no attention to her suggestion."
					"Moral," added Rob, "don't do it. Betty,  don't you dare
						put any more dangerous notions in my head."
					Phil's turn came next. "My dream is soon told," he said. "I had been sleeping like the
						dead -- a perfectly dreamless sleep -- till Mary woke us up with her cat-fight. That
						aroused me so thoroughly that I didn't go to sleep again for more than an hour. Then
						when I did drop off at nearly morning, I dreamed that there was a spider on my head, and
						I gave it a tremendous whack to kill it. It was no dream whack, I can tell you, but a
						real live double-fisted one, that made me see stars. It actually made a dent in my
						cranium and got me so wide awake that I couldn't drop off again. I got up and sat by the
						window till there were faint streaks of light in the sky. I did the rest of my dreaming
						with my eyes open, so I don't have to tell what it was about."
					"I can guess," thought Mary, intercepting the swift glance he stole across the table at
						something blue. This time it was the ribbon that tied Lloyd's hair, a big bow of
						turquoise taffeta, knotted becomingly at the back of her neck. Lloyd, unconscious of the
						glance, had turned to speak to Miles Bradford, to answer his question about Sylvia
						Gibbs's wedding.


					



					"Yes, it really is to take place to-night in the colohed church. M'haley was heah
						befoah we were awake, to get the dress and to repeat the invitation for the whole family
						to attend. There are evah so many white folks invited, M'haley says. All the Waltons and
						Maclntyres, of co'se, because Miss Allison is their patron saint, and they swear by her,
						and all the families for whom Sylvia has washed."
					"It is extremely fortunate for those of us who are going away so soon that she set the
						date as early as to-night," said Doctor Bradford. "Twenty-four hours later would have
						cut us out."
					Phil interrupted him. "Don't bring up such disagreeable topics at the table, Bradford.
						It takes my appetite to think that we have only one more day in the Valley-- that it has
						come down to a matter of a few hours before we must begin our farewells."
					"Speaking of farewells," said Rob, "who-all's coming down to the station with me to
						wave good-by to Miss Bonham? She goes back to Lexington this morning."
					"We'll all go," answered Lloyd, promptly. "Mothah will be glad to get us out of the way
						while the servants give the place a grand 'aftah the ball' cleaning, and Joyce wants to
						see the girls once moah  befoah she begins packing, to
						arrange several things about their journey."
					"How does it happen that Logan and Stanley are not going with Miss Bonham?" asked Rob.
						"Isn't their time up, too, or can't they tear themselves away?"
					"I thought you knew," answered Joyce. "Miss Allison arranged it all last night. You
						know she goes up to Prout's Neck, in Maine, for awhile every summer, and this year
						Allison and Kitty are going with her. She has offered to take me under her wing all the
						way, and has arranged her route to go right past the place where the summer art school
						is, on Cape Cod coast. Lieutenant Logan and Lieutenant Stanley are staying over a day
						longer than they had intended, in order to go part of the way with us, and Phil and
						Doctor Bradford are leaving a day earlier to take advantage of such good company all the
						way home. Won't it be jolly, -- eight of us! Kitty calls it a regular house-party on
						wheels."
					"I certainly envy you," answered Rob. "Miss Allison is the best chaperone that can be
						imagined, just like a girl herself; and Allison and Kitty are as good as a circus any
						day. I'll wager it didn't take much persuading to make Stanley stay over.  He hasn't eyes for anything or anybody but Allison."

					"He had eyes for Bernice Howe the night of Katie Mallard's musicale," said Betty. "He
						scarcely left her."
					"Do you know why?" asked Rob in an aside. They were rising from the table now,
						strolling out to the chairs and hammocks on the shady porch. He spoke in a low tone as
						he walked along beside her.
					"It is very ungallant for me to say such a thing, but between you and me and the
						gate-post, Betty, he was roped into being so attentive. Bernice Howe beats any girl I
						ever saw for making dates with fellows, and handling her cards so as to make it seem she
						is immensely popular. It is an old trick of hers, and that night it was very apparent
						what she was trying to do. Alex Shelby was there, you remember, and when she saw him
						talking to Lloyd every chance he got, she didn't want it to appear that she was being
						neglected by the man who had brought her, and with a little skilful manoeuvring she
						managed to bag the lieutenant's attention. I've been wanting to ask you for some time,
						why is it that she seems so down on the Little Colonel?"
					"She isn't!" declared Betty, much surprised.  "You must
						be letting your imagination run away with you, Rob. There isn't a girl in the Valley
						friendlier and sweeter to Lloyd than Bernice Howe. You watch them next time they are
						together, and see. They've been good friends for years."
					"Then all I can say is that some girls have a queer idea of friendship. It's downright
							catty the way they purr and rub around to your face, and then show
						their spiteful little claws when your back is turned. That's what I've noticed Bernice
						doing lately. She calls her all the sugary names in the dictionary when she's with her,
						but when her back is turned -- well, it's just a shrug of the shoulders or a lift of the
						eyebrows or a little twist of the mouth maybe, but they insinuate volumes. What makes
						girls do that way, Betty? Boys don't. If they have any grievance they fight it out and
						then let each other alone."
					"I'm sure I don't know why," answered Betty. "I'll be honest with you and confess that
						you are right. Half the girls at school were that way. They might be fair and
						high-minded about everything else, but when it came to that one thing they were -- well,
						as you say, regular cats. They didn't have the faintest conception of what a David and
						Jonathan friendship could be like. Even the  ordinary kind
						didn't seem to bind them in any way, or impose any obligation on them when their own
						interests were concerned."
					"Deliver me from such friends!" ejaculated Rob. "I'd rather have a sworn enemy. He
						wouldn't do me half the harm." Then after a pause, "I suppose, if you haven't noticed
						it, then Lloyd hasn't either, that Bernice is bitterly jealous of her."
					"No, I am sure she has not."
					"Then I wish you'd drop her a hint. I couldn't mention the subject to her, because it
						is an old fight of ours. You know how we've squabbled for hours over it -- the
						difference between the codes of honor in a girl's friendships and boys'. No matter how
						carefully I made the distinction that I meant the average girl, and not all of them, she
						always flared into a temper, and in order to be loyal to her entire sex, took up arms
						against me in a regular pitched battle. She's ordered me off the place more than once,
						and yet in her soul I believe she agrees with me."
					"But, Rob, if that is a pet theory of yours that you go around applying in a wholesale
						way, isn't it barely possible that you've made a mistake this time and imagined that
						Bernice is two-faced in her friendship?"


					




					Rob shook his head. "She'll be at the station this morning. You can see for yourself,
						if you keep your eyes open."
					"Now, to be explicit, just what is it I shall see?" retorted Betty. But Phil
						interrupted their tte--tte at that point, and when they started to the station an
						hour later, her question was still unanswered. Bernice Howe was there, as Rob had
						predicted, and Katie Mallard and several other of the Valley girls who had enjoyed the
						hospitality of The Beeches during Miss Bonham's visit.
					"It looks quite like a garden-party," said Miles Bradford to Miss Allison, watching the
						pretty girls, in their light summer costumes, flutter around the waiting-room. "I don't
						know whether to compare them to a flock of butterflies or a bouquet of sweet peas. I am
						glad we are going to take some of them with us to-morrow, and wish -- "
					Betty, who had turned to listen, because his smiling glance seemed to include her in
						the conversation, failed to hear what it was he wished. Bernice Howe, who was standing
						with her back to her, took occasion just then to draw Miss Bonham aside, and her voice,
						although pitched in a low key, was unusually penetrating. At the same moment the entire
						party shifted positions to make room for some  new
						arrivals in the waiting-room, and Betty was jostled so that she was obliged to dodge a
						corpulent woman with a carpet-bag and a lunch-basket. When she recovered her balance she
						found herself out of range of Doctor Bradford's voice, but almost touching elbows with
						Bernice. She was saying:
					"We're going to miss you dreadfully, Miss Bonham. I always do miss Allison's guests and
						Kitty's nearly as much as my own. They're so dear about sharing them with me. Now some
						girls are so stingy, they fairly keep their visitors under lock and key -- that is, if
						they are men. They wouldn't dream of taking them to call on another girl. Afraid to, I
						suppose. Afraid of losing their own laurels. There's one of the kind."
					Betty saw her nod with a meaning smile toward Lloyd, and caught another sentence or two
						in which the words, "Queen of Hearts, tied to her apron-string," gave her the drift of
						the remarks.
					"She's plainly trying to give Miss Bonham an unpleasant impression of Lloyd to carry
						away with her," thought Betty. "She's hurt because she wasn't invited to the coon hunt,
						and the other little affairs we had for the bridal party. She never took it into
						consideration that what would have been perfectly convenient at another time was out of
							 the question when the house was so full of guests and
						all torn up with preparations for the wedding. Lloyd had all she could do then to think
						of the guests in the house, without considering those outside. It certainly is a flimsy
						sort of a friendship that can't overlook a seeming neglect like that or make due
						allowances. Besides, if she feels slighted, why doesn't she keep it to herself, and not
						try to get even by giving Miss Bonham a false impression of her? Rob is right. Boys
						don't stoop to such mean little things. In the first place they don't magnify trifles
						into big grievances, and go around feeling slighted and hurt over nothing."
					"Here comes the train!" called Ranald, seizing Miss Bonham's suit-case and leading the
						way to the door. There was a moment of hurried good-byes, a fluttering of handkerchiefs,
						a waving of hats. Then the train passed on, leaving the group gazing after it.
					"What are we going to do now?" asked Rob. "Will you all come over to the store and have
						some peanuts?"
					"No, you're all coming up home with me," said Lloyd, "Miss Allison and everybody. I saw
						Alec carrying some watahmelons into the ice-house, and 
						they'll be good and cold by this time. We'll cut them out on the lawn."
					Ranald excused himself, saying he had promised to take his Aunt Allison to the
						dressmaker's in the pony-cart, but Allison and Kitty promptly accepted the invitation
						for themselves and the two lieutenants. Katie Mallard walked on with one and Joyce the
						other, Rob and Betty bringing up the rear. Lloyd still waited.
					"Come on, Bernice," she urged. "The watahmelons are mighty fine, and we'd love to have
						you come."
					"No, dearie," was the reply. "I've a lot of things to do to-day, but I'll see you
						to-night at the darky wedding."
					"I'm mighty sorry you can't come," called Lloyd, then hurried on to catch up with the
						others. As she joined Rob and Betty she felt intuitively they had changed their subject
						of conversation at her approach. She had caught the question, "Then are you going to
						warn her?" and Betty's reply, "What's the use? It would only make her feel bad."
					"What's that about warnings?" asked Lloyd, catching Betty's hand and swinging it as she
						walked along beside her.


					



					"Something that Betty doesn't believe in," began Rob, "just as I don't believe in
						dreams. Why wouldn't Bernice come with you?"
					"She said she had so much to do. Mistah Shelby is coming out latah. He is going to take
						her to Sylvia's wedding to-night."
					"Speaking of warnings," burst out Rob, impulsively, "I'm going to give you one, Lloyd,
						whether you like it or not. Don't be too smiling and gracious when you meet Alex Shelby,
						or Bernice will be assaulting you for poaching on her preserves. You must keep out of
						her bailiwick if you want to keep her friendship. It's the kind that won't stand much of
						a strain."
					"What do you mean, Rob Moore?" demanded Lloyd, hesitating between a laugh and the old
						feeling of anger that always flashed up when he referred to girls' friendships in that
						superior tone.
					"I am devoted to Bernice and she is to me. If you are trying to pick a quarrel you may
						as well go along home, for I'm positively not going to fuss with you about anything
						whatsoevah until aftah all the company is gone."
					"No'm! I don't want to quarrel," responded Rob, with exaggerated meekness. "I was
						merely  giving you a warning -- sort of playing Banshee
						for your benefit, but you don't seem to appreciate my efforts. Let's talk about
						watermelons."

				
				

				

					CHAPTER XIV.
						A SECOND MAID OF HONOR

					IT was a new experience to Miles Bradford, this trudging through the
						dense beech woods on a summer night behind a row of flickering lanterns. The path they
						followed was a wide one, and well worn by the feet of churchgoing negroes, for it was
						the shortest cut between the Valley and Stumptown, a little group of cabins clustered
						around the colored church.
					Ranald led the way with a brakeman's lantern, and Rob occasionally illuminated the
						scene by electric flashes from the head of the walking-stick he was flourishing. A
						varied string of fiery dragons, winged fish, and heathen hobgoblins danced along beside
						them, for Kitty was putting candles in a row of Japanese lanterns when they arrived at
						The Beeches, and nearly everybody in the party accepted her invitation to take one. Mary
						chose a sea-serpent with a grinning face, and Elise a pretty oval one with birds and
						cherry blossoms on each side.  Lloyd did not take any. Her
						hands were already filled with a huge bouquet of red roses.
					"Sylvia asked me to carry these," she explained to Miles Bradford, "and to weah a white
						dress and this hat with the red roses on it. Because I was maid of honah at Eugenia's
						wedding she seems to think I can reflect some sawt of glory on hers. She said she wanted
						all her young ladies to weah white."
					"Who are her young ladies, and why?" he asked.
					"Allison, Kitty, Betty, and I. You see, Sylvia's grandfathah was the MacIntyre's
						coachman befoah the wah, and her mothah is our old Aunt Cindy. She considahs that she
						belongs to us and we belong to her."
					Farther down the line they could hear Katie Mallard's cheerful giggle as she tripped
						over a beech root, then Bernice Howe's laugh as they all went slipping and sliding down
						a steep place in the path which led to the hollow crossed by the dry creek bed.
					"Sing!" called Miss Allison, who was chaperoning the party, and picking her way behind
						the others with Mary and Elise each clinging to an arm. "There's such a pretty echo down
						in this  hollow. Listen!" The tune that she started was
						one of the popular songs of the summer. It was caught up by every one in the procession
						except Miles Bradford, and he kept silent in order to enjoy this novel pilgrimage to the
						fullest. The dark woods rang with the sweet chorus, and the long line of fantastic
						lanterns sent weird shadows bobbing up in their wake.
					The bare, unpainted little church had just been lighted when they arrived, and a strong
						smell of coal-oil and smoking wicks greeted them.
					"It's too bad we are so early," said Miss Allison. "Sylvia would have preferred us to
						come in with grand effect at the last moment, but I'm too tired to wait for the bridal
						party. Let's put our lanterns in the vestibule and go in and find seats."
					A pompous mulatto man in white cotton gloves and with a cluster of tuberoses in his
						buttonhole ushered the party down the aisle to the seats of honor reserved for the white
						folks. There were seventeen in the party, too many to sit comfortably on the two
						benches, so a chair was brought for Miss Allison. After the grown people were seated,
						each of the little girls managed to squeeze in at the end of the seats nearest the
						aisle. Lloyd found herself  seated between Mary Ware and
						Alex Shelby. Leaning forward to look along the bench, she found that Bernice came next
						in order to Alex, then Lieutenant Stanley and Allison, Doctor Bradford and Betty.
					She had merely said good evening to Alex Shelby when they met at The Beeches, and,
						although positions in the procession through the woods had shifted constantly, it had
						happened she had not been near enough to talk with him. Now, with only Mary Ware to
						claim her attention, they naturally fell into conversaton. It was only in whispers, for
						the audience was assembling rapidly, and the usher had opened the organ in token that
						the service was about to begin.
					There had been an attempt to decorate for the occasion. Friends of the bride had
						resurrected both the Christmas and Easter mottoes, so that the wall behind the pulpit
						bore in tall, white cotton letters, on a background of cedar, the words, "Peace on
						Earth, Good Will to Men." Fresh cedar had been substituted for the yellowed branches
						left over from the previous Christmas, and fresh diamond dust sprinkled over the grimy
						cotton to give it its pristine sparkle of Yule-tide frost.


					



					"An appropriate motto for a wedding," whispered Alex Shelby to Lloyd. Only his eyes
						laughed. His face was as solemn as the usher's own as he turned to gaze at the word
						"Welcome" over the door, and the fringe of paper Easter lilies draping the top of each
						uncurtained window.
					Bernice claimed his attention several moments, then he turned to Lloyd again. "Do tell
						me, Miss Lloyd," he begged, "what is that wonderfully and fearfully made thing in the
						front of the pulpit? Is it a doorway or a giant picture-frame? And what part is it to
						play in the ceremony?"
					Lloyd's face dimpled, and an amused smile flashed up at him from the corner of her eye.
						Then she lowered her long lashes demurely, and seemed to be engrossed with her bunch of
						roses as she answered him.
					"The coquettish thing!" thought Bernice, seeing the glance but not hearing the whisper
						which followed it.
					"Sh! Don't make me laugh! Everybody is watching to see if the white folks are making
						fun of things, and I'm actually afraid to look up again for feah I'll giggle. Maybe it's
						a copy of Eugenia's gate of roses. It looks like the frame of a doahway. Just the
						casing, you know. Maybe it's a  doah of mawning-glories
						they're going to pass through. I recognize those flowahs twined all around it. We made
						them a long time ago for the lamp-shades when the King's Daughtahs had an oystah suppah
						at the manse. I made all those purple mawning-glories and Betty made the yellow
						ones."
					Glancing over his shoulder, he happened to spy a familiar face behind him, the kindly
						old black face of his uncle's cook.
					"Howdy, Aunt Jane!" he exclaimed, with a friendly smile. Then, in a stage whisper, he
						asked, "Aunt Jane, can you tell me? Are those morning-glories artificial?"
					The old woman wrinkled her face into a knot as she peered in the direction of the
						pulpit, toward which he nodded. One of the words in his question puzzled her. It was a
						stranger to her. But, after an instant, the wrinkles cleared and her face broadened into
						a smile.
					"No'm, Mistah Alex. Them ain't artificial flowahs, honey. They's made of papah."
					Again an amused smile stole out of the corner of Lloyd's eye to answer the gleam of
						mischief in Alex's. Not for anything would she have Aunt Jane think that she was
						laughing, so her eyes were  bent demurely on her roses
						again. Again Bernice, leaning forward, intercepted the glance and misinterpreted it.
						When Alex turned to her to repeat Aunt Jane's explanation, she barely smiled, then
						relapsed into sulky silence. Finding several other attempts at conversation received
						with only monosyllables, he concluded that she was not in a mood to talk, and naturally
						turned again to Lloyd.
					He had not been out in the Valley for years, he told her. The last visit he had made to
						his uncle, old Doctor Shelby, had been the summer that the Shermans had come back to
						Lloydsboro from New York. He remembered passing her one day on the road. She had
						squeezed through a hole in the fence between two broken palings, and was trying to pull
						a little dog through after her; a shaggy Scotch and Skye terrier.
					"That was my deah old Fritz," she answered, "and I was probably running away. I did it
						every chance I had."
					"The next time I saw you," he continued, "I was driving along with uncle. I was
						standing between his knees, I remember, proud as a peacock because he was letting me
						hold the reins. I was just out of kilts, so it was a great honor to be trusted with the
						lines. When we passed your grandfather  on his horse, he
						had you up in front of his saddle, and uncle called out, 'Good morning, little
						Colonel.'"
					These reminiscences pleased Lloyd. It flattered her to think he remembered these early
						meetings so many years ago. His relationship to the old doctor whom she loved as her own
						uncle put him on a very friendly footing.
					The church filled rapidly, and by the time the seats were crowded and people were
						jostling each other to find standing-room around the door, a young colored girl in a
						ruffled yellow dress seated herself at the organ. First she pulled out all the stops,
						then adjusting a pair of eyeglasses, opened a book of organ exercises. Then she felt her
						sash in the back, settled her side-combs, and raising herself from the organ bench,
						smoothed her skirts into proper folds under her. After these preliminaries she leaned
						back, raised both hands with a grand flourish, and swooped down on the keys.
					"Bang on the low notes and twiddle on the high!" laughed Lloyd, under her breath.
						"Listen, Mistah Shelby. She's playing the same chord in the bass straight through."
					"Is that what makes the fearsome discord?" he asked. "It makes me think of an epitaph I
						once  saw carved on a pretentious headstone in a little
						village cemetery: 
							
								"'Here lies one
								Who never let her left hand know
								What her right hand done.' "
							
						

					"Neithah of Laura's hands will evah find out what the othah one is trying to do,"
						whispered Lloyd. "She is supposed to be playing the wedding-march. Hark! There is a
						familiah note: 'Heah comes the bride.'They must be at the doah. Well,
						I wish you'd look!"
					Every head was turned, for the bridal party was advancing. Slowly down the aisle came
						M'haley, in the pink chiffon gown from Paris. Mom Beck's quick needle had altered it
						considerably, for in some unaccountable way the slim bodice fashioned to fit Lloyd's
						slender figure, now fastened around M'haley's waist without undue strain. The skirt,
						though turned "hine side befo'," fell as skirts should fall, for the fulness had been
						shifted to the proper places, and the broad sky-blue sash covered the mended holes in
						the breadth Lloyd had torn on the stairs.
					With her head high, and her armful of flowers held in precisely the same position in
						which Lloyd  had carried hers, she swept down the aisle in
						such exact imitation of the other maid of honor, that every one who had seen the first
						wedding was convulsed, and Kitty's whisper about "Lloyd's understudy" was passed with
						stifled giggles from one to another down both benches.
					Ca'line Allison came next, in a white dress and the white slippers that had been thrown
						after Eugenia's carriage with the rice.
					She was flower girl, and carried an elaborate fancy basket filled with field daisies. A
						wreath of the same snowy blossoms crowned her woolly pate, and an expression of anxiety
						drew her little black face into a distressed pucker. She had been told that at every
						third step she must throw a handful of daisies in the path of the on-coming bride, and
						her effort to keep count and at the same time keep her balance on the high French heels
						was almost too much for her.
					During her many rehearsals M'haley had counted her steps for her: " One, two, three --
							throw! One, two, three -- throw!" She had gone
						through her part every time without mistake, for her feet were untrammelled then, and
						her flat yellow soles struck the ground in safety and with rhythmic precision. She could
						give her entire mind to the  graceful scattering of her
						posies. But now she walked as if she were mounted on stilts, and her way led over thin
						ice. The knowledge that she must keep her own count was disconcerting, for she could not
						"count in her haid," as M'haley had ordered her to do. She was obliged to whisper the
						numbers loud enough for herself to hear. So with her forehead drawn into an anxious
						pucker, and her lips moving, she started down the aisle whispering, "One, two, three --
							throw! One, two, three -- throw!" Each time, as
						she reached the word "throw" and grasped a handful of daisies to suit the action to the
						word, she tilted forward on the high French heels and almost came to a full stop in her
						effort to regain her balance.
					But Ca'line Allison was a plucky little body, accustomed to walking the tops of fences
						and cooning out on the limbs of high trees, so she reached the altar without mishap.
						Then with a loud sigh of relief she settled her crown of daisies and rolled her big eyes
						around to watch the majestic approach of her mother.
					No matron of the four hundred could have swept down the aisle with a grander air than
						Sylvia. The handsome lavender satin skirt she wore had once trailed its way through one
						of the most elegant  receptions ever given in New York,
						and afterward had graced several Louisville functions. Its owner had given Sylvia the
						bodice also, but no amount of stretching could make it meet around Sylvia's ample
						figure, so the proceeds of the fish-fry and ice-cream festival had been invested in a
						ready-made silk waist. It was not the same shade of lavender as the skirt, but a
						gorgeous silver tissue belt blinded one to such differences. The long kid gloves, almost
						dazzling in their whiteness, were new, the fan borrowed, and the touch of something blue
						was furnished by a broad back-comb of blue enamel surmounted by rhinestones. One white
						glove rested airily on "Mistah Robinson's" coat-sleeve, the other carried a half-furled
						fan edged with white feathers.
					M'haley and Ca'line Allison waited at the altar, but the bridal couple, turning to the
						right, circled around it and mounted the steps leading up into the pulpit. The mystery
						of the wooden frame was explained now. It was not a symbolical doorway through which
						they were to pass, but a huge flower-draped picture-frame in which they took their
						places, facing the congregation like two life-sized portraits in charcoal.
					The minister, standing meekly below them between M'haley and Ca'line Allison, with his
						back to 
						
							"'ONE, TWO, THREE -- THROW!'"
						
						
						 the congregation, prefaced the ceremony by a long and
						flowery discourse on matrimony, so that there was ample time for the spectators to feast
						their eyes on every detail of the picture before them. Except for a slight stir now and
						then as some neck was craned in a different position for a better view, the silence was
						profound, until the benediction was pronounced.
					At the signal of a blast from the wheezy organ the couple, slowly turning, descended
						the steps. Ca'line Allison, in her haste to reach the aisle ahead of them to begin her
						posy-throwing again, nearly tilted forward on her nose. But with a little crow-hop she
						righted herself and began her spasmodic whispering, "One, two, three -- throw!"
					After the couple came M'haley and the pompous young minister. Then Lloyd, who had
						caught the bride's smile of gratification as her eyes rested on the white dress and red
						roses of this guest of honor, and who read the appealing glance that seemed to beckon
						her, rose and stepped into line. The rest of Sylvia's young ladies immediately followed,
						and the congregation waited until all the rest of the white folks passed out, before
						crowding to the carriage to congratulate "Brothah and Sistah Robinson."
					Lloyd went on to the carriage to speak to Sylvia  and
						give her the armful of roses to decorate the wedding-feast, before joining the others,
						who were lighting the lanterns for their homeward walk.
					"You'd better come in the light of ours, Miss Lloyd," said Alex Shelby, coming up to
						her with Bernice beside him. "We might as well take the lead. Ranald seems to be having
						trouble with his wick."
					Lloyd hesitated, remembering Rob's warning, but glancing behind her, she saw Phil
						hurrying toward her, and abruptly decided to accept his invitation. She knew that Phil
						was trying to arrange to walk home with her. This would be his last opportunity to walk
						with her, and while she knew that he would respect her promise to her father enough not
						to infringe on it by talking openly of his regard for her, his constant hints and
						allusions would keep her uncomfortable. He seemed to take it for granted that she was
						bound to come around to this point of view some day, and regard him as the one the stars
						had destined for her.
					So it was merely to escape a tte--tte with Phil which made her walk along beside
						Alex, and put out a hand to draw Mary Ware to the other side. She linked arms with her
						as they pushed through the crowd, and started down the road four abreast.  But the fences were lined with buggies and wagons, and the
						scraping wheels and backing horses kept them constantly separating and dodging back and
						forth across the road, more often singly than in pairs.
					By the time they reached the gap in the fence where the path through the woods began,
						the others had caught up with them, and they all scrambled through in a bunch. Lloyd
						looked around, and, with a sensation of relief, saw that Kitty had Phil safely in tow.
						She would be free as far as The Beeches, at any rate. At a call from Elise, Mary ran
						back to join her. Positions were being constantly shifted on the homeward way, just as
						they had been before, and, looking around, Lloyd decided that she would slip back
						presently with some of the others, who would not think that two is company and three a
						crowd, as Bernice might be doing. The backward glance nearly caused her a fall, for a
						big root in the path made her ankle turn, and Alex Shelby's quick grasp of her elbow was
						all that saved her.
					"It was my fault, Miss Lloyd," he insisted. "I should have held the lantern
						differently. There, I'll go slightly ahead and light the path better. Can you see all
						right, Bernice?"


					


					"Yes," she answered, shortly, out of humor that he should be as careful of Lloyd's
						comfort as her own. She trudged along, taking no part in the conversation. It was a
						general one, extending all along the line, for Rob at the tail and Ranald at the head
						shouted jokes and questions back and forth like end-men at a minstrel show. Laughing
						allusions to the maid of honor and Ca'line Allison were bandied back and forth, and when
						the line grew unusually straggling, Kitty would bring them into step with her, "One,
						two, three -- throw!"
					Neither Lloyd nor Alex noticed the determined silence in which Bernice stalked along,
						and when she presently slipped back with the excuse that she wanted to speak to Katie,
						they scarcely missed her. There was nothing unusual in the action, as all the others
						were changing company at intervals. At the entrance-gate to The Beeches she joined them
						again, for her nearest road home led through the Walton place, and they were to part
						company here with Lloyd and her guests.
					For a few minutes there was a babel of good-nights and parting sallies, in the midst of
						which Alex Shelby managed to say to Lloyd in a low tone, "Miss Lloyd, I am coming out to
						the Valley again a week from to-day. If you haven't any engagement  for the afternoon will you go horseback-riding with me?"
					The consciousness that Bernice had heard the invitation and was displeased, confused
						her so that for a moment she lost her usual ease of manner. She wanted to go, and there
						was no reason why she should not accept, but all she could manage to stammer was an
						embarrassed, "Why, yes -- I suppose so." But the next instant recovering herself, she
						added, graciously, "Yes, Mistah Shelby, I'll be glad to go."
					"Come on, Lloyd," urged Betty, swinging her hand to pull her into the group now drawn
						up on the side of the road ready to start. They had made their adieux.
					"All right," she answered, locking arms with Betty. "Good night, Mistah Shelby. Good
						night, Bernice."
					He acknowledged her nod with a courteous lifting of his hat, and repeated her
						salutation. But Bernice, standing stiff and angry in the starlight, turned on her heel
						without a response.
					"What on earth do you suppose is the mattah with Bernice?" exclaimed Lloyd, in
						amazement, as they turned into the white road leading toward home.
				

				

				
					 CHAPTER XV.
						THE END OF THE HOUSE-PARTY

					WITH the desire to make this last walk together as pleasant as
						possible, Lloyd immediately put Bernice out of her mind as far as she was able. But she
						could not rid herself entirely of the recollection that something disagreeable had
						happened. The impression bore down on her like a heavy cloud, and was a damper on her
						high spirits. Outwardly she was as gay as ever, and when the walk was over, led the
						party on a foraging expedition to the pantry.
					Rob and Phil were almost unroarious in their merriment now, and, as they devoured cold
						baked ham, pickles, cheese, beaten biscuit, and cake, they had a fencing-match with
						carving-knives, and gave a ridiculous parody of the balcony scene in " Romeo and
						Juliet." Mary, looking on with a sandwich in each hand, almost choked with laughter,
						although she, too, was borne down by the same feeling that  depressed Lloyd, of something very disagreeable having happened.
					She had been so ruffled in spirit all the way home that she had lagged behind the
						others, and it was only when Rob and Phil began their irresistible foolishness that she
						had forgotten her grievance long enough to laugh. No sooner had they all gone up-stairs,
						and she was alone with Joyce, than her indignation waxed red-hot again, and she
						sputtered out the whole story to her sister.
					"And," she said, in conclusion, "that hateful Bernice Howe said the meanest things to
						Katie. Elise and I were walking just behind, and we couldn't help hearing. She said that
						Lloyd had deliberately set to work to flirt with Mr. Shelby, and get him to pay her
						attention, and that, if Katie would watch, she'd soon see how it would be. He'd be going
						to see Lloyd all the time instead of her."
					"Sh!" warned Joyce. "They'll hear you all over the house. Your voice is getting higher
						and higher."
					Her warning came too late. Already several sentences had penetrated into the next room,
						and a quick knock at the door was followed by the entrance of Lloyd, looking as red and
						excited as Mary.


					



					"Tell me what it was, Mary," she demanded. "What made Bernice act so? I was sure you
						knew from the way you looked when you joined us."
					Mary was almost in tears as she repeated what she had told Joyce, for she could see
						that the Little Colonel's temper was rising to white heat.
					"And Bernice said it wasn't the first time you had treated her so. She said that
						Malcolm MacIntyre was so attentive to her last summer while you were away at the
						Springs; that he sent her flowers and candy and took her driving, and was like her very
						shadow until you came home. Then he dropped her like a hot potato, and you monop-
						monopolized him so that you succeeded in keeping him away from her altogether."
					"Malcolm!" gasped Lloyd. "Malcolm was my especial friend long befoah I evah heard of
						Bernice Howe! Why, at the very first Valentine pahty I evah went to, he gave me the
						little silvah arrow he won in the archery contest, for me to remembah him by. I've got
						it on this very minute."
					She put her hand up to the little silver pin that fastened the lace of her surplice
						collar. "Malcolm always has called himself my devoted knight, and
						he--"
					She paused. There were some things she could  not repeat;
						that scene on the churchyard stile the winter day they went for Christmas greens, when
						he had begged her for a talisman, and his low-spoken reply, "I'll be whatever you want
						me to be, Lloyd." There were other times, too, of which she could not speak. The night
						of the tableaux was the last one, when she had strolled down the moonlighted paths with
						him at The Beeches, and he had insisted that it was the "glad morrow" by his calendar,
						and time for her Sir Feal to tell her many things, especially as he was going away for
						the rest of the summer on a long yachting trip, and somebody else might tell her the
						same things in his absence. So many years she had taken his devotion as a matter of
						course, that it provoked her beyond measure to have Bernice insinuate that she had
						angled for it.
					Lloyd knew girls who did such things; who delighted in proving that they had a superior
						power of attraction, and who would not scruple to use all sorts of mean little underhand
						ways to lessen a man's admiration for some other girl, and appropriate it for
						themselves. She had even heard some of the girls at school boast of such things.
					"For pity's sake, Lloyd!" one of them had said, "don't look at me that way. 'All's fair
						in love and  war,' and a girl's title to popularity is
						based on the number of scalp-locks she takes."
					Lloyd had despised her for that speech, and now to have Bernice openly say that she was
						capable of such an action was more than she could endure calmly. She set her teeth
						together hard, and gripped the little fan she still happened to be carrying, as if it
						were some live thing she was trying to strangle.
					"And she said," Mary added, slowly, reluctant to add fuel to the flame, yet unable to
						withstand the impelling force of Lloyd's eyes, which demanded the whole truth, "she said
						that she had been sure for some time that Mr. Shelby was just on the verge of proposing
						to her, and that, if you succeeded in playing the same game with him that you did with
						Malcolm, she'd get even with you if it took her till her dying day. Then, right on top
						of that, you know, she heard him ask if you'd go horseback riding with him. So that's
						why she was so angry she wouldn't bid you good night."
					Lloyd's clenched hand tightened its grasp on the fan till the delicate sticks crunched
						against each other. She was breathing so hard that the little arrow on her dress rose
						and fell rapidly. The silence was so intense that Mary was frightened.  She did not know what kind of an outburst to expect. All of
						a sudden, taking the fan in both hands, Lloyd snapped it in two, and then breaking the
						pieces into a hundred splinters, threw them across the room into the open fireplace. She
						stood with her back to the girls a moment, then, to Mary's unspeakable astonishment,
						forced herself to speak as calmly as if nothing had happened, asking Joyce some
						commonplace question about her packing. There was a book she wanted her to slip into her
						trunk to read at the seashore. She was afraid it would be forgotten if left till next
						day, so she went to her room to get it.
					As the door closed behind her, Mary turned to Joyce in amazement. "I don't see how it
						was possible for her to get over her temper so quickly," she exclaimed. "The change
						almost took my breath."
					"She isn't over it," answered Joyce. " She simply got it under control, and it will
						smoulder a long time before it's finally burnt out. She's dreadfully hurt, for she and
						Bernice have been friends so long that she is really fond of her. Nothing hurts like
						being misunderstood and misconstrued in that way. It is the last thing in the world that
							Lloyd would do--suspect a friend of 
						mean motives. From what I've seen of Bernice, she is an uncomfortable sort of a friend
						to have; one of the sensitive, suspicious kind that's always going around with her
						feelings stuck out for somebody to tread on. She's always looking for slights, and when
						she doesn't get real ones, she imagines them, which is just as bad."
					If Lloyd's anger burned next morning, there was no trace of it either in face or
						manner, and she made that last day one long to be remembered by her departing
						guests.
					"How lonesome it's going to be aftah you all leave," she said to Joyce. "The rest of
						the summah will be a stupid anticlimax. The house-pahty and the wedding should have come
						at the last end of vacation instead of the first, then we would have had something to
						look forward to all summah, and could have plunged into school directly aftah it."
					"This July and August will be the quietest we have ever known at The Locusts," chimed
						in Betty. "Allison and Kitty leave to-night with you all, Malcolm and Keith are already
						gone, and Rob will be here only a few days longer. That's the last straw, to have Rob
						go."
					"What's that about yours truly? " asked Rob,  coming out
						of the house and beginning to fan himself with his hat as he dropped down on the porch
						step.
					"I was just saying that we shall miss you so much this summer. That you're always our
						stand-by. It's Rob who gets up the rides and picnics, and comes over and stirs us out of
						our laziness by making us go fishing and walking and tennis-playing. I'm afraid we'll
						simply go into our shells and stay there after you go."
					"Ah, ha! You do me proud," he answered, with a mocking sweep of his hat. "'Tis sweet to
						be valued at one's true worth. Don't think for a moment that I would leave you to pine
						on the stem if I could have my own way. But I'm my mother's angel baby-boy. She and
						daddy think that grandfather's health demands a change of air, and they are loath to
						leave me behind. So, unwilling to deprive them of the apple of their several eyes, I
						have generously consented to accompany them. But you needn't pine for company," he
						added, with a mischievous glance at Lloyd. "Alex Shelby expects to spend most of the
						summer with the old doctor, and he'll be a brother to you all, if you'll allow it."
					Lloyd made no answer, so he proceeded to make  several
						more teasing remarks about Alex, not knowing what had taken place before. He even
						ventured to repeat the warning about her keeping within her own bailiwick, as Bernice's
						friendship was not the kind that could stand much strain.
					To his surprise Lloyd made no answer, but, setting her lips together angrily, rose and
						went into the house, her head high and her cheeks flushed.
					"Whew!" he exclaimed, with a soft whistle. "What hornet's nest have I stirred up now
						?"
					Joyce and Betty exchanged glances, each waiting for the other to make the explanation.
						Then Joyce asked: "Didn't you see the way Bernice snubbed her last night at the gate,
						when we left The Beeches?"
					"Nary a snub did I see. It must have happened when I was groping around in the path for
						something that I had flipped out of my pocket with my handkerchief. It rang on the
						ground like a piece of money, and I feared me I had lost one of me ducats. What did she
						do?"
					"I can't tell you now," said Joyce, hurriedly, lowering her voice. "Here come Phil and
						Doctor Bradford."
					"No matter," he answered, airily. "I have no curiosity whatsoever. It's a trait of
						character  entirely lacking in my make-up." Then he
						motioned toward Mary, who was sitting in a hammock, cutting the pages of a new magazine.
						"Does she know?"
					Joyce nodded, and feeling that they meant her, Mary looked up inquiringly. Rob beckoned
						to her ingratiatingly.
					"Come into the garden, Maud," he said in a low tone. "I would have speech with
						thee."
					Laughing at his foolishness, but in a flutter of pleasure, Mary sprang up to follow him
						to the rustic seat midway down the avenue. As Joyce's parting glance had not forbidden
						it, she was soon answering his questions to the best of her ability.
					"You see," he explained, "it's not out of curiosity that I ask all this. It's simply as
						a means of precaution. I can't keep myself out of hot water unless I know how the land
						lies."
					That last day of the house-party seemed the shortest of all. Betty and Miles Bradford
						strolled over to Tanglewood and sat for more than an hour on the shady stile leading
						into the churchyard. Lloyd and Phil went for a last horseback ride, and Mary, watching
						them canter off together down the avenue, wondered curiously if he would have  anything more to say about the bit of turquoise and all it
						stood for.
					As she followed Joyce up-stairs to help her pack her trunk, a little wave of
						homesickness swept over her. Not that she wanted to go back to the Wigwam, but to have
						Joyce go away without her was like parting with the last anchor which held her to her
						family. It gave her a lonely set-adrift feeling to be left behind. She took her sister's
						parting injunctions and advice with a meekness that verged so nearly on tears that Joyce
						hastened to change the subject.
					"Think of all the things I'll have to tell you about when I get back from the seashore.
						Only two short months, -- just eight little weeks, -- but I'm going to crowd them so
						full of glorious hard work that I'll accomplish wonders. There'll be no end of good
						times, too: clambakes and fishing and bathing to fill up the chinks in the days, and the
						story-telling in the evenings around the driftwood fires. It will be over before we know
						it, and I'll be back here ready to take you home before you have time to really miss
						me."
					Cheered by Joyce's view of the subject, Mary turned her back a moment till she had
						winked away the tears that had begun to gather, then 
						straightway started out to make the most of the eight little weeks left to her at The
						Locusts. When she went with the others to the station "to give the house-party on wheels
						a grand send-off," as Kitty expressed it, her bright little face was so happy that it
						brought a smiling response from every departing guest.
					"Good-by, Miss Mary," Miles Bradford said, cordially, coming up to her in the
						waiting-room. "The Pilgrim Father has much to thank you for. You have helped him to
						store up some very pleasant memories of this happy Valley."
					"Good-by, little Vicar," said Phil next, seizing both her hands. "Think of the Best Man
						whenever you look at the Philip on your shilling, and think of his parting words. Do profit by that dreadful dream, and don't take any rash steps that
						would lead to another cat-fight. We'll take care of your sister," he added, as Mary
						turned to Joyce and threw her arms around her neck for one last kiss.
					"Lieutenant Logan will watch out for her as far as he goes, and I'll keep my eagle eye
						on her the rest of the way."
					"Who'll keep an eagle eye on you?" retorted Mary, following them out to the
						platform.


					


					He made a laughing grimace over his shoulder, as he turned to help Joyce up the
						steps.
					"What a good time they are going to have together," thought Mary, watching the group as
						they stood on the rear platform of the last car, waving good-by. "And what a different
						parting this is from that other one on the desert when he went away with such a sorry
						look in his eyes." He was facing the future eagerly this time, strong in hope and
						purpose, and she answered the last wave of his hat with a flap of her handkerchief,
						which seemed to carry with it all the loyal good wishes that shone in her beaming little
						face.
					Miles Bradford had made a hurried trip to the city that morning, to attend to a matter
						of business, going in on the ten o'clock trolley and coming back in time for lunch. On
						his return, he laid a package in Mary's lap, and handed one to each of the other girls.
						Joyce's was a pile of new July magazines to read on the train. Lloyd's was a copy of
						"Abdallah, or the Four-leaved Shamrock," which had led to so much discussion the morning
						of the wedding, when they hunted clovers for the dream-cake boxes.
					Mary's eyes grew round with surprise and delight when she opened her package and found
						inside the  white paper and gilt cord a big box of
						Huyler's candies. "With the compliments of the Pilgrim Father," was pencilled on the
						engraved card stuck under the string.
					There was layer after layer of chocolate creams and caramels, marshmallows and candied
						violets, burnt almonds and nougat, besides a score of other things -- specimens of the
						confectioner's art for which she knew no name. She had seen the outside of such boxes in
						the show-cases in Phoenix, but never before had such a tempting display met her eyes as
						these delicious sweets in their trimmings of lace paper and tinfoil and ribbons, crowned
						by a pair of little gilt tongs, with which one might make dainty choice.
					Betty's gift was not so sightly. It looked like an old dried sponge, for it was only a
						ball of matted roots. But she held it up with an exclamation of pleasure. "Oh, it is one
						of those fern-balls we were talking about this morning! I've been wanting one all year.
						You see," she explained to Mary, when she had finished thanking Doctor Bradford, "you
						hang it up in a window and keep it wet, and it turns into a perfect little hanging
						garden, so fine and green and feathery it's fit for fairyland. It will grow as long as
						you remember to  water it. Gay Melville had one last year
						in her window at school, and I envied her every time I saw it."
					"Now what does that make me think of?" said Mary, screwing up her forehead into a
						network of wrinkles and squinting her eyes half-shut in her effort to remember. "Oh, I
						know! It's something I read in a paper a few days ago. It's in China or Japan, I don't
						know which, but in one of those heathen countries. When a young man wants to find out if
						a girl really likes him, he goes to her house early in the dawn, and leaves a growing
						plant on the balcony for her. If she spurns him, she tears it up by the roots and throws
						it out in the street to wither, and I believe breaks the pot; but if she likes him, she
						takes it in and keeps it green, to show that he lives in her memory."
					A shout of laughter from Rob and Phil had made her turn to stare at them uneasily.
						"What are you laughing at?" she asked, innocently. "I did read it. I
						can show you the paper it is in, and I thought it was a right bright way for a person to
						find out what he wanted to know without asking."
					It was very evident that she hadn't the remotest idea she had said anything personal,
						and her  ignorance of the cause of their mirth made her
						speech all the funnier. Doctor Bradford laughed, too, as he said with a formal bow: "I
						hope you will take the suggestion to heart, Miss Betty, and let my memory and the
						fern-ball grow green together."
					Then, Mary, realizing what she had said when it was too late to unsay it, clapped her
						hands over her mouth and groaned. Apologies could only make the matter worse, so she
						tried to hide her confusion by passing around the box of candy. It passed around so many
						times during the course of the afternoon that the box was almost empty by train-time.
						Mary returned to it with unabated interest after the guests were gone. It was the first
						box of candy she had ever owned, and she wondered if she would ever have another.
					"I believe I'll save it for a keepsake box," she thought, gathering it up in her arms
						to follow Betty up-stairs. Rob had come back with them from the station, and, taking the
						story of "Abdallah," he and Lloyd had gone to the library to read it together.
					Betty was going to her room to put the fern-ball to soak, according to directions.
						Feeling just a trifle lonely since her parting from Joyce, Mary wandered off to the room
						that seemed to miss her,  too, now that all her personal
						belongings had disappeared from wardrobe and dressing-table. But she was soon absorbed
						in arranging her keepsake box. Emptying the few remaining scraps of candy into a paper
						bag, she smoothed out the lace paper, the ribbons, and the tinfoil to save to show to
						Hazel Lee. These she put in her trunk, but the gilt tongs seemed worthy of a place in
						the box. The Pilgrim Father's card was dropped in beside it, then the heart-shaped
						dream-cake box, holding one of the white icing roses that had ornamented the bride's
						cake. Last and most precious was the silver shilling, which she polished carefully with
						her chamois-skin pen-wiper before putting away.
					"I don't need to look at you to make me think of the Best Man," she
						said to the Philip on the coin. "There's more things than you that remind me of him. I
						certainly would like to know what sort of a fate you are going to bring me. There's
						about as much chance of my being an heiress as there is of that nightmare coming
						true."
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XVI.
						THE GOLDEN LEAF OF HONOR

					IT was a compliment that changed the entire course of Mary's summer;
						a compliment which Betty gleefully repeated to her, imitating the old Colonel's very
						tone, as he gesticulated emphatically to Mr. Sherman:
					"I tell you, Jack, she's the most remarkable child of her age I ever met. It is
						wonderful the information she has managed to pick up in that God-forsaken desert
						country. I say to you, sir, she can tell you as much now about scientific bee-culture as
						any naturalist you ever knew. Actually quoted Huber to me the other day, and
						Maeterlinck's 'Life of the Bee!' Think of a fourteen-year-old girl quoting Maeterlinck!
						With the proper direction in her reading, she need never see the inside of a college,
						for her gift of observation amounts to a talent, and she has it in her to make herself
						not only an honor to her sex, but one of the most interesting women of her
						generation."



					


					Mary looked up in blank amazement when Betty danced into the library, hat in hand, and
						repeated what the old Colonel had just said in her hearing. Compliments were rare in
						Mary's experience, and this one, coming from the scholarly old gentleman of whom she
						stood in awe, agitated her so much that three successive times she ran her needle into
						her finger, instead of through the bead she was trying to impale on its point. The last
						time it pricked so sharply that she gave a nervous jerk and upset the entire box of
						beads on the floor.
					"See how stuck-up that made me," she said, with an embarrassed laugh, shaking a tiny
						drop of blood from her finger before dropping on her knees to grope for the beads, which
						were rolling all over the polished floor. "It's so seldom I hear a compliment that I
						haven't learned to take them gracefully."
					"Godmother is waiting in the carriage for me," said Betty, pinning on her hat as she
						spoke, "or I'd help you pick them up. I just hurried in to tell you while it was fresh
						in my mind, and I could remember the exact words. I had no idea it would upset you so,"
						she added, mischievously.
					Left to herself, Mary soon gathered the beads back into the box and resumed her task.
						She was  making a pair of moccasins for Girlie Dinsmore's
						doll. Her conscience still troubled her for playing stork, and she had resolved to spend
						some of her abundant leisure in making amends in this way. But only her fingers took up
						the same work that had occupied her before Betty's interruption. Her thoughts started
						off in an entirely different direction.
					A most romantic little day-dream had been keeping pace with her bead-stringing. A
						day-dream through which walked a prince with eyes like Rob's and a voice like Phil's,
						and the wealth of a Croesus in his pockets. And he wrote sonnets to her and called her
						his ladye fair, and gave her not only one turquoise, but a bracelet-ful.
					Now every vestige of sentiment was gone, and she was sitting up straight and eager,
						repeating the old Colonel's words. They were making her unspeakably happy. "She has it
						in her to make herself not only an honor to her sex, but one of the most interesting
						women of her generation." "To make herself an honor," -- why, that would be winning the
						third leaf of the magic shamrock -- the golden one! Betty had said
						that she believed that every one who earned those first three leaves was sure to find
						the fourth one waiting somewhere  in the world. It
						wouldn't make any difference then whether she was an old maid or not. She need not be
						dependent on any prince to bring her the diamond leaf, and that was a good thing, for
						down in her heart she had her doubts about one ever coming to her. She loved to make up
						foolish little day-dreams about them, but it would be too late for him to come when she
						was a grandmother, and she wouldn't be beautiful till then, so she really had no reason
						to expect one. It would be much safer for her to depend on herself, and earn the first
						three in plain, practical ways.
					"To make herself an honor." The words repeated themselves again and again, as she
						rapidly outlined an arrow-head on the tiny moccasin in amber and blue. Suddenly she
						threw down the needle and the bit of kid and sprang to her feet. "I'll do
							it!" she said aloud.
					As she took a step forward, all a-tingle with a new ambition and a firm resolve, she
						came face to face with her reflection in one of the polished glass doors of the
						bookcase. The intent eagerness of its gaze seemed to challenge her. She lifted her head
						as if the victory were already won, and confronted the reflection squarely. "I'll do
						it!" she said,  solemnly to the resolute eyes in the glass
						door. "You see if I don't!"
					Only that morning she had given a complacent glance to the long shelves of fiction,
						with which she expected to while away the rest of the summer. There would be other
						pleasant things, she knew, drives with Mrs. Sherman, long tramps with the girls, and
						many good times with Elise Walton; but there would still be left hours and hours for her
						to spend in the library, going from one to another of the famous novelists, like a bee
						in a flower garden.
					"With the proper direction in her reading," the old Colonel had said, and Mary knew
						without telling that she would not find the proper beginning among the books of fiction.
						Instinctively she felt she must turn to the volumes telling of real people and real
						achievements. Biographies, journals, lives, and letters of women who had been, as the
						Colonel said, an honor to their sex and the most interesting of their generation. She
						wished that she dared ask him to choose the first book for her, but she hadn't the
						courage to venture that far. So she chose at random.
					"Lives of Famous Women" was the volume that happened to attract her first, a collection
						of short  sketches. She took it from the shelf and glanced
						through it, scanning a page here and there, for she was a rapid reader. Then, finding
						that it bade fair to be entertaining, down she dropped on the rug, and began at the
						preface. Lunch stopped her for awhile, but, thoroughly interested, she carried the book
						up to her room and immediately began to read again.
					When she went down to the porch before dinner that evening, she did not say to herself
						in so many words that maybe the Colonel would notice what she was reading, but it was
						with the hope that he would that she carried the book with her. He did notice, and
						commended her for it, but threw her into a flutter of confusion by asking her what
						similarity she had noticed in the lives of those women she was reading about.
					It mortified her to be obliged to confess that she had not discovered any, and she
						thought, as she nervously fingered the pages and looked down at her toes, "That's what I
						got for trying to appear smarter than I really am."
					"This is what I meant," he began, in his didactic way. "Each of them made a specialty
						of some one thing, and devoted all her energies to accomplishing that purpose, whether
						it was the establishing of a  salon, the discovery of a
						star, or the founding of a college. They hit the bull's-eye, because they aimed at no
						other spot on the target. I have no patience with this modern way of a girl's taking up
						a dozen fads at a time. It makes her a jack-at-all-trades and a master of none."
					 The Colonel was growing eloquent on one of his favorite topics now, and presently Mary
						found him giving her the very guidance she had longed for. He was helping her to a
						choice. By the time dinner was announced, he had awakened two ambitions within her,
						although he was not conscious of the fact himself. One was to study the strange insect
						life of the desert, in which she was already deeply interested, to unlock its treasures,
						unearth its secrets, and add to the knowledge the world had already amassed, until she
						should become a recognized authority on the subject. The other was to prove by her own
						achievements the truth of something which the Colonel quoted from Emerson. It flattered
						her that he should quote Emerson to her, a mere child, as if she were one of his peers,
						and she wished that Joyce could have been there to hear it.
					This was the sentence: "If a man can write a better book, preach a better
							sermon, or make a better  mouse-trap than his neighbor,
							though he build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten track to his
							door."
					Mary did not yet know whether the desert would yield her the material for a book or a
						mouse-trap, but she determined that no matter what she undertook, she would force the
						world to "make a beaten track to her door." The first step was to find out how much had
						already been discovered by the great naturalists who had gone before her, in order that
						she might take a step beyond them. With that in view, she plunged into the course of
						study that the Colonel outlined for her with the same energy and dogged determination
						which made her a successful killer of snakes.
					Lloyd came upon her the third morning after the breaking up of the house-party, sitting
						in the middle of the library floor, surrounded by encyclopaedias and natural histories.
						She was verifying in the books all that she had learned by herself in the desert of the
						habits of trap-door spiders, and she was so absorbed in her task that she did not look
						up.
					Lloyd slipped out of the room without disturbing her, wishing she could plunge into
						some study as absorbing, -- something that would take her 
						mind from the thoughts which had nagged her like a persistent mosquito for the last few
						days. She knew that she had done nothing to give Bernice just cause for taking offence,
						and it hurt her to be misunderstood.
					"If it were anything else," she mused, as she strolled up and down under the locusts,
						"I could go to her and explain. But explanation is impossible in a case of this kind. It
						would sound too conceited for anything for me to tell her what I know to be the truth
						about Malcolm's attentions to her, and as for the othah --" she shrugged her shoulders.
						"It would be hopeless to try that. Oh, if I could only talk it ovah with mothah or Papa
						Jack!" she sighed.
					But they had gone away immediately after the house-party, for a week's outing in the
						Tennessee mountains. She could have gone to her grandfather for advice on most
						questions, but this was too intangible for her to explain to him. Betty, too, was as
						much puzzled as herself.
					"I declare," she said, when appealed to, "I don't know what to tell you, Lloyd. It's
						going to be such a dull summer with everybody gone, and Alex Shelby is so nice in every
						way, it does seem unfair for you to have to put such a desirable companionship  from you just on account of another girl's jealousy. On the
						other hand, Bernice is an old playmate, and you can't very well ignore the claims of
						such a long-time friendship. She has misjudged and misrepresented you, and the
						opportunity is yours, if you will take it, to show her how mistaken she is in your
						character."
					Now, as Lloyd reached the end of the avenue and stopped in front of the gate, her face
						brightened. Katie Mallard was hurrying down the railroad track, waving her parasol to
						attract her attention.
					"I can't come in," she called, as she came within speaking distance. "I'm out
						delivering the most informal of invitations to the most informal of garden-parties
						to-morrow afternoon. I want you and Betty to help receive."
					"Who else is going to help ?" asked Lloyd, when she had cordially accepted the
						invitation for herself and Betty.
					"Nobody. I had intended to have Bernice Howe, and went up there awhile ago to ask her.
						She said maybe she'd come, but she certainly wouldn't help receive if you were going to.
						She's dreadfully down on you, Lloyd."
					"Yes, I know it. I've heard some of the catty  things she
						said about my breaking up the friendship between her and Malcolm. It's simply absurd,
						and it makes me so boiling mad every time I think about it that I feel like a
						smouldering volcano. There aren't any words strong enough to relieve my mind. I'd like
						to thundah and lighten at her."
					"Yes, it is absurd," agreed Katie. "I told her so too. I told her that Malcolm always
						had thought more of you than any girl in the Valley, and always would. And she said,
						well, you had no 'auld lang syne' claim on Alex, and that if he once got started to
						going to Locust you'd soon have him under your thumb as you do every one else, and that
						would be the end of the affair for her."
					"As if I were an old spidah, weaving webs for everybody that comes along!" cried Lloyd,
						indignantly. "She's no right to talk that way."
					"I think it's because she really cares so much, and not that she does it to be
						spiteful," said Katie. "She hasn't a bit of pride about hiding her feeling for him. She
						openly cried about it while she was talking to me."
					"What do you think I ought to do?" asked Lloyd, with a troubled face. "I like Mistah
						Shelby evah so much, and I'd like to be nice to him for the old doctah's sake if for no
						othah reason, for I'm  devoted to him.
						And I really would enjoy seeing him often, especially now when everybody else is gone or
						going for the rest of the summah. Besides, he'd think it mighty queah for me to write to
						him not to come next Thursday. But I'd hate to really interfere with Bernice's
						happiness, if it has grown to be such a serious affair with her that she can cry about
						it. I'd hate to have her going through the rest of her life thinking that I had
						deliberately wronged her, and if she's breaking her heart ovah it" -- she stopped
						abruptly.
					"Oh, I don't see that you have any call to do the grand renouncing act!" exclaimed
						Katie. "Why should you cut yourself off from a good time and a good friend by snubbing
						him? It will put you in a very unpleasant light, for you couldn't explain without making
						Bernice appear a perfect ninny. And if you don't explain, what will he think of you? Let
						me tell you, it is more than she would do for you if you were in her place. Somehow,
						with us girls, life seems like a game of 'Hold fast all I give you.' What falls into
						your hands is yours by right of the game, and you've no call to hand it over to the next
						girl because she whimpers that she wants to be 'it.' Don't you worry. Go on and have a
						good time."


					



					With that parting advice Katie hurried away, and Lloyd was left to pace up and down the
						avenue more undecided than before. It was late in the afternoon of the next day when she
						finally found the answer to her question. She had been wandering around the
						drawing-room, glancing into a book here, rearranging a vase of flowers there, turning
						over the pile of music on the piano, striking aimless chords on the harp-strings.
					Presently she paused in front of the mantel to lift the lid from the rose-jar and let
						its prisoned sweetness escape into the room. As she did so she glanced up into the eyes
						of the portrait above her. With a whimsical smile she thought of the times before when
						she had come to it for counsel, and the question half-formed itself on her lips: " What
						would you do, you beautiful Grandmother Amanthis?"
					Instantly there came into her mind the memory of a winter day when she had stood there
						in the firelight before it, stirred to the depths by the music this one of "the choir
						invisible" had made of her life, by her purpose to "ease the burden of the world " --
						"to live in scorn of miserable aims that end with self."
					Now like an audible reply to her question the  eyes of
						the portrait seemed to repeat that last sentence to her: "To live in scorn
							of miserable aims that end with self!"
					For a moment she stood irresolute, then dropping the lid on the rose-jar again, she
						crossed over into the next room and sat down beside the library table. It was no easy
						task to write the note she had decided to send. Five different times she got half-way
						through, tore the page in two and tossed it into the waste-basket. Each attempt seemed
						so stiff and formal that she was disgusted with it. Nearly an hour passed in the effort.
						She could not write the real reason for breaking her engagement for the ride, and she
						could not express too much regret, or he would make other occasions she would have to
						refuse, if she followed out the course she had decided upon, to give Bernice no further
						occasion for jealousy. It was the most difficult piece of composition she had ever
						attempted, and she was far from pleased with the stiff little note which she finally
						slipped into its envelope.
					"It will have to do;" she sighed, wearily, "but I know he will think I am snippy and
						rude, and I can't beah for him to have that opinion of me."
					In the very act of sealing the envelope she hesitated again with Katie's words
						repeating themselves  in her ears: "It's more than she
						would do for you, if you were in her place."
					While she hesitated there came a familiar whistle from somewhere in the back of the
						house. She gave the old call in answer, and the next moment Rob came through the
						dining-room into the hall, and paused in the library door.
					"I've made my farewells to the rest of the family," he announced, abruptly. "I met
						Betty and Mary down in the orchard as I cut across lots from home. Now I've got about
						five minutes to devote to the last sad rites with you."
					"Yes, we're going on the next train," he answered, when her amazed question stopped
						him. "The family sprung the surprise on me just a little while ago. It seems the doctor
						thought grandfather ought to go at once, so they've hurried up arrangements, and we'll
						be off in a few hours, two days ahead of the date they first set."
					Startled by the abruptness of his announcement, Lloyd almost dropped the hot
						sealing-wax on her fingers instead of the envelope. His haste seemed to communicate
						itself to her, for, springing up, she stood with one hand pressing her little signet
						ring into the wax, while the other reached for the stamp-box.
					
					"I'll be through in half a second," she said. "This lettah should have gone off
						yestahday. If you will post it on the train for me it will save time and get there
						soonah."
					"All right," he answered. "Come on and walk down to the gate with me, and we'll stop at
						the measuring-tree. We can't let the old custom go by when we've kept it up so many
						years, and I won't be back again this vacation."
					Swinging the letter back and forth to make sure that the ink was dry, she walked along
						beside him. "Oh, I wish you weren't going away!" she exclaimed, forlornly. "It's going
						to be dreadfully stupid the rest of the summah."
					They reached the measuring-tree, and taking out his knife and pocket-rule, Rob passed
						his fingers over the notches which stood for the many years they had measured their
						heights against the old locust. Then he held out the rule and waited for her to take her
						place under it, with her back against the tree.
					"What a long way you've stretched up between six and seventeen," he said. "This'll be
						about the last time we'll need to go through this ceremony, for I've reached my top
						notch, and probably you have too."
					
					"Wait!" she exclaimed, stooping to pick something out of the grass at her feet. "Heah's
						anothah foah-leaved clovah. I find one neahly every time I come down this side of the
						avenue. I'm making a collection of them. When I get enough, maybe I'll make a
						photograph-frame of them."
					"Then you ought to put your own picture in it, for you're certainly the luckiest person
						for finding them I ever heard of. I'm going to carve one on the tree, here by this last
						notch under the date. It will be quite neat and symbolical, don't you think? A sort of
						'when this you see remember me' hieroglyphic. It will remind you of the long discussions
						we've had on the subject since we read 'Abdallah' together."
					He dug away in silence for a moment, then said, "It's queer how you happened to find
						that just now, for last night I came across a verse about one, that made me think of
						you, and I learned it on purpose to say to you -- sort of a farewell wish, you
						know."
					"Spouting poetry is a new accomplishment for you, Bobby," said Lloyd, teasingly. "I
						certainly want to hear it. Go on."
					She looked down to thrust the stem of the clover through the silver arrow that fastened
						her belt,  and waited with an expectant smile to hear what
						Limerick or nonsense jingle he had found that made him think of her. It was neither.
						With eyes fixed on the little symbol he was outlining on the bark of the tree, he
						recited as if he were reading the words from it: 
							
								"Love, be true to her;
								Life, be dear to her;
								Health, stay close to her;
								Joy, draw near to her;
								Fortune, find what your gifts
								Can do for her.
								Search your treasure-house
								Through and through for her.
								Follow her steps
								The wide world over;
								You must! for here is
								The four-leaved clover."
							
						
					"Why, Rob, that is lovely!" she exclaimed, looking up at him,
						surprised and pleased. "I'm glad you put that clovah on the tree, for every time I look
						at it, it will remind me of yoah wish, and --"
					The letter she had been carrying fluttered to the ground. He stooped to pick it up and
						return it to her.
					"That's the lettah you are to mail for me," she said, giving it back to him. "Don't
						forget it, for it's impawtant."
					
					The address was uppermost, in her clear, plain hand, and she held it toward him, so
						that he saw she intended him to read it.
					"Hm! Writing to Alex Shelby, are you?" he said, with his usual brotherly frankness, and
						a sniff that plainly showed his disapproval.
					"It's just a note to tell him that I can't ride with him Thursday," she answered,
						turning away.
					"Did you tell him the reason?" he demanded, continuing to dig into the tree.
					"Of co'se not! How could I without making Bernice appeah ridiculous?"
					"But what will he think of you, if you don't?"
					"Oh, I don't know! I've worried ovah it until I'm neahly gray."
					Then she looked up, wondering at his silence and the grave intentness with which he was
						regarding her.
					"Oh, Rob, don't tell me, aftah all, that you think it was silly of me! I thought you'd
						like it! It was only the friendly thing to do, wasn't it?"
					He gave a final dig with his knife, then turned to look down into her wistful eyes.
						"Lloyd Sherman," he said, slowly, "you're one girl whose friendship means something. You
						don't measure up very high on this old locust, but when it comes to doing the  square thing -- when it's a question of honor, you measure up like a man!"
					Somehow the unwonted tenderness of his tone, the grave approval of his smile, touched
						her in a way she had not believed possible. The tears sprang to her eyes. There was a
						little tremor in her voice that she tried to hide with a laugh.
					"Oh, Rob! I'm so glad! Nothing could make me happier than to have you think that!"
					They started on down to the gate together. The only sound in all the late afternoon
						sunshine was the soft rustling of the leaves overhead. How many times the old locusts
						had watched their yearly partings! As they reached the gate, Rob balanced the letter on
						his palm an instant. Evidently he had been thinking of it all the way. "Yes," he said,
						as if to himself, "that proves a right to the third leaf." Then he dropped the letter in
						his pocket.
					Lloyd looked up, almost shyly. "Rob, I want to tell you something. Even after that
						letter was written I was tempted not to send it. I was sitting with it in my hand,
						hesitating, when I heard yoah whistle in the hall, and then it came ovah me like a
						flash, all you'd said, both in jest and earnest, about friendship and what it should
						count for. Well, it was the old test, like jumping off the roof and  climbing the chimney. I used to say 'Bobby expects it of me, so I'll do it
						or die.' It was that way this time. So if I have found the third leaf, Rob, it was you who showed me where to look for it."
					Then it was that the old locusts, watching and nodding overhead, sent a long whispering
						sigh from one to another. They knew now that the two children who had romped and raced
						in their shadows, who had laughed and sung around their feet through so many summers,
						were outgrowing that childhood at last. For the boy, instead of answering "Oh, pshaw!"
						in bluff, boyish fashion, as he would have done in other summers gone, impulsively
						thrust out his hands to clasp both of hers.
					That was their good-by. Then the Little Colonel, tall and slender like Elaine, the Lily
						Maid, turned and walked back toward the house. She was so happy in the thought that she
						had found the golden leaf, that she did not think to look behind her, so she did not see
						what the locusts saw -- Rob standing there watching her, till she passed out of sight
						between the white pillars. But the grim old family sentinels, who were always watching,
						nodded knowingly and went on whispering together.
					THE END.
				
				
				
				
			
		
	
