
   ----CITATION---- 
        Stein, Evaleen, 1863-1923.. Our little Frankish cousin of long ago. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1844
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    


      
      

        OUR LITTLE FRANKISH COUSIN OF LONG AGO

      
      



      


        THE LITTLE COUSINS OF LONG AGO SERIES
        
        
          Each volume illustrated with full page plates, frontispiece in color. Cloth,
            12mo, with decorative cover. Per volume, $1.00
        
        
        
          NOW READY
        
        
          OUR LITTLE ATHENIAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE AZTEC COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE CARTHAGINIAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE CELTIC COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE CRUSADER COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE FEUDAL COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE FLORENTINE COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE FRANKISH COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE MACEDONIAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE NORMAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE ROMAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE SAXON COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE SPARTAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          OUR LITTLE VIKING COUSIN OF LONG AGO
        
        
        
          L. C. PAGE & COMPANY
          53 BEACON STREET
          BOSTON, MASS.
        

      

      
      
      

        
          
        
      

      
      
        
           The Little Cousins of Long Ago Series

           OUR LITTLE  FRANKISH COUSIN OF LONG AGO
          Being the Story of Rainolf, A Boy at the Court of
            Charlemagne
        
         BY
          EVALEEN STEIN Author of "Our Little Norman Cousin of Long
          Ago," "Gabriel and the Hour Book," etc. ILLUSTRATED BY HELENA VON LANDAU
          and CHARLES MEISTER 
        
          BOSTON
          
          THE PAGE COMPANY
          
          MDCCCCXVII
        
      


      


      










        Copyright, 1917, by THE PAGE COMPANY  All rights reserved


        


        Made in U. S. A. First Impression, July 1917 Second Impression,
          January, 1929 Third Impression, March, 1935










        PRINTED BY THE COLONIAL PRESS INC., CLINTON, MASSACHUSETTS,
          U.S.A.
      

      






      






         TO MY LITTLE COUSIN OF TO-DAY ELIZABETH
          STEVENSON
      

      
      


      


         Preface
        

        The Frankish ruler, Charlemagne, was one of the greatest monarchs that ever lived. Great
          not merely because he was a victorious warrior and the kingdom he ruled was enor- mous,
          but rather because living as he did in a time when many of his people were lawless and
          ignorant, he saw clearly the worth of law and wisdom. He did all in his power to gov- crn
          justly and to teach his people in all that best knowledge without which no nation can
          become truly civilized.
        The world has never forgotten his great deeds, and deep in its heart it still cherishes
          him as one of its most honored heroes.
        Many are the songs and legends that cluster about his name, and some day I hope you will
             read these, for I am sure you will enjoy them. Meantime,
          perhaps you may be interested in learning something of the home life of this hero, so let
          me introduce Our Little Frankish Cousin of Long Ago, for he spent quite a while as page in
          the royal palace and so ought to be able to give you some idea of what folks did there. At
          least he can show you what Frank- ish boys did,- and, I do hope you will like him!
        
           EVALEEN STEIN. 
        
      
      



      


        Contents
        
        
          
            CHAPTER
            PAGE
          
          
            PREFACE
            vii
          
          
            PRONUNCIATION OF PROPER NAMES
            xii
          
          
            RAINOLF AND THE PALACE PAGES
            1
          
          
            A BIT OF HISTORY
            15
          
          
            THE PALACE SCHOOL
            23
          
          
            DINNER
            37
          
          
            MALAGIS AND THE BOYS
            45
          
          
            A BOAR HUNT AND A MUSIC LESSON
            59
          
          
            THE MINNESINGER TELLS OF ROLAND
            69
          
          
            PRESENTS FOR THE KING
            82
          
          
            RAINOLF IN THE WRITING-ROOM
            92
          
          
            CHRISTMAS DAY OF THE YEAR 800
            102
          

        
      
      
      
      
        List of Illustrations
        

        
          
            PAGE
          
          
            RAINOLF
            Frontispiece
          
          
            "'YOU SHALL BE
                ONE OF MY PAGES'"
            36
          
          
            "MALAGIS PURSED UP HIS LIPS AND SMILED"
            55
          
          
            "IT WAS THE DAY OF THE GREAT BOAR HUNT"
            59
          
          
            "'WITH HIS DYING BREATH BLEW A LONG BLAST'"
            77
          
          
            "A MONK WAS WRITING A CHAPTER FROM THE BIBLE IN LETTERS OF GOLD"
            96
          

        
      
      


      


        Pronounciation of Proper Names
        
        
          Aachen (ah´-ken)
          Aix-la-Chapelle (aks-la-sha-pel´)
          Alcuin (al´-kwin)
          Ay´-mon
          Bag´-dad
          Blaye (blay)
          Bordeaux (bor-doe´)
          Bur´-gun-dy
          Caliph (ka´lif)
          Charlemagne (char´-le-mane)
          Des´sen-berg
          Durandal (doo-ron-dal´)
          Einhard (ine´-hard)
          E´-mir
          Haroun-al-Raschid (ha-roon´-al-rash´-id)
          Ir´-min-sul
          Mal´-a-gis
          Marsilius (mar-see´-le-us)
          Ol´-i-vant
          Pa-der-born´
          Pyrenees (pir´-e-neez)
          Rain´-olf
          Roncesvalles (ron-thes-val´-yas)
        
      
    
    



      
      

        Our Little Frankish Cousin of Long Ago
        


          
           CHAPTER I
            RAINOLF AND THE PALACE PAGES
          One summer afternoon, ever and ever and ever so long ago, along a crooked street in the
            old town of Aachen a boy was walking slowly. He held in his hands a half unrolled scroll
            of parchment covered with queer squares and circles and quantities of stars, and at
            these he was peering with an intent curiosity. Indeed, he was so absorbed in trying to
            make out the figures on the parchment that he forgot to notice where he was going; and
            presently tripping over a large stone projecting from the narrow ill-paved street, down
            he tumbled, sprawling plump into the midst of a family of 
            little pigs that had been following their mother just ahead of him.
          Instantly there was a tremendous squealing as the frightened little beasts scurried off
            in all directions, and mingling with their squeals rose a chorus of merry shouts of
            laughter from a group of boys coming from the opposite direction.
          "Ho! Ho! Rainolf!" they cried. "What were you trying to do? Catch a little pig for the
            palace cooks?"
          Meantime Rainolf, having scrambled to his feet, began ruefully to brush the dust from
            his tunic of white linen and his legs wrapped in strips of the same material
            cross-gartered with knitted bands of blue wool. One of the boys good-naturedly picked up
            his round blue cap, while another handed him the roll of parchment which had been the
            cause of his trouble. As the boy caught a glimpse of the tracings on the scroll,
            "Rainolf," he said, "I'll wager you  have been to see Master
            Leobard the astrologer!"
          "Yes," replied Rainolf, "he was a friend of my father, and mother said for me to go to
            see him when I came to Aachen. I hunted him up to-day, and he was very kind and made my
            horoscope for a present."
          Here the boys gathered around Rainolf again as he unrolled his parchment, and they all
            looked it over trying to puzzle out its meaning. Now, a horoscope was a chart showing
            the position of the stars in the sky at the hour of a baby's birth; and from these the
            astrologer who made it, and who was supposed to know much about the stars and a good
            deal of magic besides, declared he could foretell the child's future. People who could
            afford it in those days liked to have these horoscopes made for their children; but if
            one did not happen to have it done when a baby it answered just as well later on to
            furnish the astrologer with the  right dates. This was the
            way Master Leobard had made the one for Rainolf, who had been born twelve years before,
            in a castle some distance from Aachen whither he had lately been sent by his widowed
            mother so that he might be educated in the court of the great King Charlemagne who ruled
            the land.
          As now the boys looked at the parchment, "Well," said one of them, "it's no use for us
            to try to make it out. What did Master Leobard say? Is your fortune good?"
          "Yes, Aymon," answered Rainolf, "I think it's fairly good,-- though he did say I would
            get some hard knocks now and then."
          "So," laughed one of the boys, "I suppose you tumbled down just now because your stars
            said you had to!"
          Rainolf smiled as he added, "At any rate, if I do get some knocks, he said I would be a
            good fighter and always conquer my enemies." And he drew himself up proudly.


          


          "You are a good fighter now," said Aymon, his close friend, as he looked admiringly at
            Rainolf's straight figure and fearless face with its blue eyes and frame of flaxen
            hair.
          "But," went on Rainolf, "he said there was something else I would like much better than
            fighting and that I would make a success of it, and that I would see something of the
            world." Just here the horoscope was cut short, as "Look out!" cried one of the boys, and
            they all hastened to flatten themselves against the wall of an old brown house in front
            of which they happened to be standing. For a cart was coming down the street, which was
            so narrow that anybody walking there had to get out of the way or else squeeze up
            against some of the brown-beamed wooden houses or dark little shops on either side.
          Meantime the cart came trundling by. It was heavy and rudely built, its two wheels made
            from solid blocks of wood which had been hewn  with an ax
            till they were tolerably round. The cart was drawn by a big white ox wearing a clumsy
            wooden collar; and his patient eyes scarcely blinked nor did he turn his head as the
            heavy wheels bumped and creaked over the uneven stones of the street. Beside the cart
            walked a bare-headed peasant with red hair and beard and wearing a tunic of coarse gray
            homespun, his legs wrapped in bands of linen criss- crossed around them and on his feet
            shoes of heavy leather.
          "Good-day," said Rainolf as the man passed. But the peasant only turned his head and
            stared.
          "Where are you going?" pursued another boy undaunted by his silence.
          At this, "To the King's palace," muttered the peasant as he prodded the ox with a long
            goad he held in his hand.
          The ox started, the cart gave a jerk, and "Squawk! Squawk!" came from a couple of  geese within as with feet tied together they helplessly
            flopped against some bags of meal piled in front of them.
          "Oh," said Aymon, standing on tiptoe trying to look into the cart, "never mind,
            Rainolf, that you didn't catch those little pigs! All these things are going to the
            palace kitchen!"
          "Yes," put in another boy, pointing down the crooked street, "and there come a lot
            more!"
          Sure enough, there were more ox-carts, and in between them even some flocks of sheep
            and a number of cattle. All these provisions the peasant folk had raised on the lands of
            the King near Aachen, and they were bringing them in, as they did once in so often, for
            the use of the large household at the palace. By and by, when these supplies were all
            eaten, the King and all the palace people would probably move off for a while to some
            other part of the  kingdom where he had more farms to fill
            the royal larder.
          As now the last cart went creaking along the street, "Where are you boys going?" asked
            Rainolf of the others, who, like himself, were all pages from the palace.
          "Oh," said Aymon, "nowhere in particular. The King's chamberlain sent us to old
            Grimwald, the armorer, to see if he had finished some new boar-spears for the big hunt
            next week. The palace armorer has more than he can do, so Grimwald is helping him. But
            the spears were not done."
          Meantime they all loitered along the street, now and then looking in the shops on
            either side. These were small and dark, more like little cubby holes than our idea of
            shops. There was no glass in their narrow windows, only heavy wooden shutters to be
            closed and barred at night. The shop-keepers sat on benches inside, most of them hard at
            work  making their wares. There was the shoe- dealer sewing
            up shoes of thick leather cut in one piece soles and all, or, if one preferred, he had
            sandals of rawhide with leather thongs to tie them on. There was the cloth-seller, whose
            wife had spun and woven the woollen stuffs and the rolls of linen and narrow colored
            bands in which the Frankish men wrapped and cross- gartered their legs; for no one had
            thought of trousers or stockings. Then there was the silk-dealer, whose wares had come
            from the town of Lyons, and goldsmiths beating out trinkets of gold and silver for the
            noble ladies.
          Past these was a many-gabled inn; for as Aachen was the King's capital, numbers of
            people came there on different errands. Across from the inn was a grassy square and a
            low brown house where on market days one might buy cheeses and chunks of meat and
            coarsely ground meal and a few kinds of vegetables and  for
            sweetmeats cakes made of meal and honey, for nobody had heard of sugar.
          Near the market-house a juggler was standing on his head, but only a few beggars and
            children were watching him; and as the boys went along they merely glanced at him with a
            scornful "Pooh! Does he suppose we can't stand on our heads, too?" For jugglers were
            plenty and this one not so clever as most.
          Beyond the square was the shop of Grimwald, the armorer, whose swords and helmets and
            spears were the best in Aachen. Grimwald was busy making a suit of armor by sewing
            hundreds of small iron rings on a tunic of leather, and beside him an apprentice was
            sharpening the boar-spears as he turned a great grindstone. Standing close to this was
            an elfish figure in a bright yellow tunic, a little man, not more than four feet high,
            with a peaked face and strange deep eyes, now shrewd and keen, now twinkling and
            kindly.


          


          "Ho! " cried one of the boys, looking into the shop, "there is the King's jester!"
            "Malagis," he called to the dwarf, "what are you doing in there?"
          At this Malagis came out, limping a little because of one crooked foot; though it was
            astonishing how he could caper when he wanted to. "Oh," he said, "I was just standing by
            the grindstone a minute getting my wits sharpened. It would be good for all of you,
            too," he added, sweeping the group with a carved ivory staff he held, "only it would
            take so frightfully long!"
          "One thing," said Aymon laughing, "you don't need to sharpen your tongue, Malagis!"
          Here the dwarf prodded him with his staff, just as the peasants prodded their oxen, and
            began capering along beside the boys.
          Soon they passed the row of shops and came to dwelling houses, some with upper stories
            and peaked roofs, some low and rambling. On  nearly all
            heavy shutters stood open showing within sometimes richly dressed ladies and their maids
            spinning and weaving or embroidering, and sometimes women in homespun bending over pots
            and pans in which things were cooking at big fireplaces while puffs of smoke curled out
            through the windows till you would have been quite sure all those houses were afire! But
            the boys knew better and paid no attention, for nobody had chimneys, and smoke was
            expected to get out as best it could.
          Presently, "I'll tell you what let's do!" cried Rainolf. "Let's go back to the palace
            swimming-pool and see if there is a chance for a swim!"
          "All right!" echoed the rest, and off they scampered past the last straggling houses
            till they came to the edge of Aachen, and looming ahead rose the great palace of the
            mighty King Charlemagne. After the plain wooden houses of the old town, it would have
            made you blink  to see how very large and fine was this
            palace with its stone walls and tall towers and its many porticoes and doorways and
            cornices all of beautifully carved marble. In the midst of it was a wide courtyard with
            grass and flowers and numbers of marble statues.
          Not far from the palace, in a pleasant meadow-land, was a large pool lined with blocks
            of stone and divided into two parts, in one of which was warm and in the other cold
            water; for it was fed from springs nearby, and some of these always ran warm. Indeed,
            the chief reason why King Charlemagne had built one of his finest palaces here was that
            he might bathe often in these warm medicinal springs. He had had the swimming-pool made
            large enough, however, for others of his household to enjoy it as well; though the boys
            would not have presumed to go in if the King himself were there. But when they came up
            only a few soldiers and other humbler folk were  swimming
            about, so all they had to do was to throw off their tunics and jump in, and soon they
            were splashing around like a school of porpoises.
          Presently Malagis, who had not hurried, came along by the pool and seeing Rainolf's
            parchment, which had fallen from his tunic and was about to tumble into the water,
            picked it up and placed a stone on it for safety, muttering as he did so, "There! One of
            those silly boys has been getting his horoscope! They're always in such a hurry to know
            their fortunes all at once,-- as if they wouldn't find out soon enough anyhow! I could
            have told him myself, if I was a mind to, much better than old Master Leobard!" And
            Malagis poked the parchment contemptously with his foot; for he was reputed something of
            a magician himself.

        
        

        


          CHAPTER II
             A BIT OF HISTORY

          Now, while the boys are in swimming, suppose we stop a minute and answer a few
            questions. If you children would like to know when this story begins, you will have to
            subtract something over eleven hundred years from this year and that will leave you just
            three figures; which means that it was enormously long ago. For if you have subtracted
            right you will find that the story begins in the year 800. And if you want to know where
            the old town of Aachen was, you will have to turn in your geographies to the map of
            Europe and look in the western part of Prussia; and there you will find that Aachen,
            which is very near to France, has also a French name, Aix-la-Chapelle, which means
            Aachen of the chapel, or church, because  of the wonderful
            one which King Charlemagne built there.
          But if anybody had told Rainolf or Aymon or the rest of those boys in swimming that the
            town was ever called Aix-la-Chapelle and that it was in Prussia, they would have stared
            and laughed; for the simple reason that there wasn't any Prussia then. Neither was there
            any Germany or France as they are bounded in your maps, nor Belgium nor Holland.
          "Dear me!" you say, "why what in the world was there?"
          Well, there was just the same big country with its hills and valleys and mountains and
            rivers, only it wasn't all settled and divided up and named as it is now. It was all
            ruled by King Charlemagne, and, to be sure, some of it to the east of Aachen was vaguely
            called Germany, but nobody could have told exactly how far Germany went. While west and
            north and south of Aachen, where is now Belgium and 
            Holland and France, was mostly called Gaul. In this great region many different kinds of
            people lived. Those in the southern part of Gaul were quite civilized, because once upon
            a time they had been conquered by the Romans who had taught them many things. Those up
            in the northern part of the kingdom were many of them still wild and savage; while those
            in the middle part were, as might have been expected betwixt and between; that is,
            civilized in many ways and in others very rude and ignorant.
          A few hundred years before our story begins, when the whole country was peopled by
            wandering tribes generally fighting each other, one tribe, called the Franks, being
            stronger than the rest, managed to get possession of a large part of the land and a
            Frankish chief named Clovis became King. Clovis conquered many of the other tribes and
            added to his kingdom; and though he had been a heathen to start with, he  ended by being baptized and becoming a Chris- tian.
          But Clovis seemed to be the only great chief of his family; for after he died his sons
            and grandsons and great- great- grandsons were all so stupid and good-for-nothing that
            the Frankish people did not know what to do with them. They did not like to take their
            crowns away from them, so they let them still be called Kings, but shut them up in their
            palaces or sometimes even carted them off to farmhouses in the country. And while each
            "Sluggard King," for so they were nick-named, thus dawdled away his life, the kingdom
            was really managed by a man called the Mayor of the Palace.
          By and by there was a Mayor of the Palace named Pepin who was a very clever man and
            decided to make a change. He thought that as all the descendants of Clovis were too
            silly to rule and other people had to do all their work for them, it was high time to
            stop pretending  they were Kings. By this time all the
            Frankish people had grown very tired of the foolish old royal family and quite agreed
            with Pepin. They said that as he had been such a good Mayor of the Palace he should be
            King instead of Childeric, who was the last of the family of Clovis and who was then
            shut up in a farmhouse where he did nothing but eat and drink and doze.
          So the big Frankish warriors lifted Pepin up on their shields and showed him to
            everybody as their new King; and a very good one he made.
          But it was Pepin's baby boy Charles who was destined to be the lasting glory of the
            Franks. When he grew up and inherited the kingdom, he soon earned the title of Charles
            the Great, or Charlemagne, which is the same thing. He extended his dominions till his
            kingdom spread over all that is now France and Germany and most of Italy and much more
            besides and was  one of the largest in the world; and not
            only was he a great warrior, but he was one of the very greatest and wisest rulers the
            world has ever seen. Indeed, he was so remarkable and so powerful that it is no wonder
            that for hundreds of years after his time people declared that he was at least ten feet
            tall, that in battle he could hew down dozens of his enemies at a single stroke, and
            that he was so wise that he knew instantly everything that went on in the farthest parts
            of his kingdom.
          Yes, about Charlemagne and the Twelve Paladins, who were his bravest warriors, more
            wonderful stories have been told and more beautiful songs sung than about any other King
            that ever lived, excepting only King Arthur of Britain and the Knights of the Round
            Table; and, of course, you have heard of them.
          Now, Charlemagne was indeed very wise; and among other things he saw that the Franks
               had much to learn in many ways. And this brings us back
            to the King's palace; for he knew one thing particularly his people had to be taught,
            and that was how to build beautiful houses such as he had seen in his wars in Italy and
            other far countries. So when he wanted to build the palace at his favorite Aachen he
            brought home with him not only Italian workmen to teach the Franks, but also quantities
            of fine marble columns and handsome mosaics and beautiful carvings.
          And that was why the great palace there was one of the finest of the many belonging to
            Charlemagne. And that was why, too, the big swimming-pool was so well made; for the King
            had seen baths like it at Rome.
          But really it is time Rainolf and all those other boys came out of it, for they have
            been swimming all the while we have been talking about the Frankish people! And,
            besides, Charlemagne himself has not yet come into the 
            story, and surely you must want to see what such a wonderful King is like.

          So splash! out come the boys and run off to put on their clothes, and -- if you look
            sharp -- you will see the mighty Charlemagne come into the very next chapter; though he
            will come quietly and not as if he were entering a captured city. When he did that
            people used to be terribly frightened; for marching before him would be such multitudes
            of soldiers with iron spears and coats of iron mail and iron leggings, and so many bold
            knights on horseback, wearing iron armor and iron helmets and iron breastplates and iron
            gauntlets and carrying iron battle-axes, and then the mighty Charlemagne himself clad in
            iron from head to toe, riding an iron gray horse, holding in one hand an enormous iron
            lance, and looking so -- but let us wait till he comes into the story.

        
        

        

          CHAPTER III
             THE PALACE SCHOOL

          The next morning rather early, as usual, Rainolf and the other boys tumbled out of
            their beds in the wing of the palace where they slept, and as soon as they were dressed
            they ran out into the courtyard and began jumping over each other, for all the world
            like leap-frog! So that must have been it. By and by, "I'm hungry!" cried Aymon.
          "So am I!" said Rainolf. "Let's find something to eat!"
          And they all trooped off to the great palace kitchen where the cooks gave them some
            bread and cold meat and cheese, which they stood around and ate wherever they were not
            too much in the way. For breakfast was not made much of by anybody, nor set out except
            for the  more important people of the palace. And it was
            never much like our breakfasts. There was always a great deal of meat for food, and for
            drink there was mead and wine. It had not occurred to people in those days that it might
            be agreeable to eat different kinds of things at different meals. And, besides, even if
            they had thought of it, they couldn't make their breakfasts very different from their
            dinners, because none of the Franks had ever heard of such things as rolled oats or
            puffed rice or coffee or griddle-cakes and maple syrup, poor things!
          Nevertheless, when the boys had finished munching down their meat and bread they began,
            just as you do, to think about school.
          "Rainolf!" said Aymon, "if you spell the rest of us down again to-day or get more good
            marks in grammar, I'll fight you!" But as he laughed good-naturedly as he made this
            threat, Rainolf laughed too. "Never mind," he answered, "maybe you won't have to! I
            think  to-day's lesson will be a good deal harder than
            yesterday."
          By this time they all decided that they had better be starting: so they made their way,
            not to the old town of Aachen, but across the courtyard to another part of the palace.
            Entering a handsome doorway and passing through a long corridor they came to a large
            room with a ceiling supported by many pillars and a floor of beautiful mosaics which the
            king had brought from Italy along with the rich tapestries which hung on the walls. At
            one side of the room was a raised platform, or dais, on which stood two throne-like
            chairs; while down the length of the floor below were a number of carved wooden
            benches.
          When Rainolf and the rest of the pages entered they found a group of other boys and a
            few little girls already there. These were mostly children of the common soldiers and
            humbler folks about the palace. And, besides  these, were
            quite a number of grown people, too, many of them noble ladies and gentlemen. The latter
            were dressed in linen tunics with sword-belts, and leg wrappings cross-gartered in
            bright colors, and all had long mustaches and shaven chins and hair nearly reaching
            their shoulders. The ladies wore silken tunics edged with embroidery, and trailing
            skirts, and on their heads embroidered scarfs arranged in folds covering their hair and
            with the long ends hanging down or else wrapped closely about their white throats.
          Presently there was a hush, and everybody stood back and bowed very low as a group of
            people was seen coming toward the open door. Look sharp now, for here comes
            Charlemagne!
          Rainolf fairly held his breath and stared with all his eyes as the stately figure drew
            near; for he had been in the palace only a short time and had seen but little of the
            King whose many affairs of state and various wars kept him often  away from Aachen. Rainolf had heard so much of the great deeds of
            Charlemagne, how six Kings called themselves his vassals, and how his fame was known and
            talked of all the way from Bagdad to Britain, that to the boy he seemed quite like the
            hero of some wonder tale,- as indeed he was!
          As now the great King entered the schoolroom he smiled pleasantly at the people there,
            and as he crossed over to take his place in one of the throne-like chairs on the dais,
            one might see that he was about fifty-five years old, and though not ten feet tall he
            was very near a good seven, and bore himself with royal dignity.
          Circling his noble dome-like head was a gold and jeweled crown and beneath it hung
            rather long locks of iron gray hair, while over his breast flowed a long gray beard. His
            large blue eyes were bright and sparkling and his face wore a kindly but determined
            expression.
          His dress was very simple; for the King  loved the old
            Frankish costume of his people and only on very grand occasions would he consent to wear
            the splendid jeweled robes which belonged to his station. On this day he wore, as usual,
            a plain tunic of white linen with a silken hem of blue and girt with a sword-belt of
            interlaced gold and silver from which hung a sword with hilt and scabbard of the same
            precious metals. A square sea-blue mantle was fastened over one shoulder with a golden
            clasp and on his feet were leather shoes laced with gold cords over white leg-wrappings
            cross- gartered well above the knees with narrow bands of purple silk.
          Beside Charlemagne, on the other tall chair, sat his Queen Luitgarde, while several of
            the princesses, his daughters, took their places near by; his sons would have been
            there, too, but they happened to be off fighting in a distant part of the kingdom. The
            noble ladies and gentlemen seated themselves on the benches nearest  the dais, while Malagis perched on its edge looking very wise. Last of all,
            the palace pages and other children sat down on the farther benches.
          Presently a young man entered, and, bowing before Charlemagne, laid on his knees a
            large parchment book.
          "That's Master Einhard, the King's scribe. I guess you haven't seen him before; he's
            been sick since you came," whispered Aymon to Rainolf, as the young man seated himself
            on the edge of the dais near Malagis and took from the bosom of his tunic a tablet of
            parchment and a goose-quill pen ready to write down anything the King might wish.
          "The King thinks a great deal of him," went on Aymon, "and he does of Master Alcuin,
            too. Look, there he comes now!"
          Every one looked toward the tall man entering the room. He wore a monk's hood and robe,
            and in the cord that bound the latter at  the waist were
            stuck some goose-quill pens and the hollow tip of a cow's horn filled with ink. This
            monk, who was the teacher, bowed respectfully to the King and Queen, took his place in
            the middle of the floor and school began.
          Now if you think that the great Charlemagne and Queen Luitgarde and all the other
            ladies and gentlemen had come simply to visit this palace school, you are very much
            mistaken! No, indeed! They were all there to study just as hard as Rainolf and Aymon and
            all the other boys and girls.
          For you must know that before the time of Charlemagne the Frankish people had no
            schools, and most of them knew just about as little of books and such things as reading,
            writing, and arithmetic and spelling and geography as they could possibly get along
            with; and that was very little indeed. But the wise King had done his best to change all
            this. All through  the country there were many monasteries,
            and in these he had established schools so that the monks (who were about the only
            people then who could read or write) might teach the children of both rich and poor. And
            even in his own palace Charlemagne had for nearly twenty years kept up a school taught
            by the best scholars in the world, and in it he himself and the princes and princesses
            and many other grown folks of his household were not ashamed to sit with the children
            and study as hard as any of you boys and girls do now. But Sh! for, as I told you, the
            school had begun.
          Everybody was still as a mouse; only Charlemagne spoke. "Master Alcuin," he said, "I
            would have you explain some points of grammar which I do not understand," and he looked
            with a perplexed air at the parchment book on his knees.
          The monk stepped to the King's side and in a low tone cleared up the passage which
            puzzled  him. Soon Charlemagne closed the book and said
            again, "Master Alcuin, pray tell us something of the courses of the stars at this
            season."
          For Charlemagne was always deeply interested in the sky and used often to watch the
            stars for hours at night from the top of one of the highest palace towers.
          Master Alcuin, as he was bidden, gave a little talk on astronomy; then going to an
            oaken table near by and taking a number of little books, almost like primers, written by
            hand on parchment, he gave them to the children to study.
          "Aymon," whispered Rainolf softly to his friend who sat next to him, "did you say
            Master Alcuin made these books himself?"
          "Yes," whispered Aymon, "he wrote them all out for us to use in the school."
          The books were not so easy to learn from, either, even if they were primers; for all
            were in Latin. That was because the Frankish people  had
            been fighting so long trying to make a nation of themselves that they had neither time
            nor learning to write books in their own language, which was still unfinished, and
            nobody was quite sure about its spelling or grammar. But the Greek and Latin people had
            been wise and civilized long before, while the Franks were still wild barbarians, and
            had written many wonderful books which had been carefully copied by monks and handed
            down in writing as there were no printing presses yet. It was from some of these that
            Master Alcuin had written the Latin books for the palace school.
          As the children were puzzling over their lessons, presently he began asking them
            questions. And then Malagis, as he sometimes did when no one was looking, darted from
            his seat on the dais and hovered about slyly poking with his ivory wand any boy or girl
            who looked sleepy or wasn't paying attention; for a jester 
            always did pretty much as he pleased and nobody dared complain.
          I have no idea just what Master Alcuin's questions were about, but very likely it was
            grammar and spelling and arithmetic. At any rate, Rainolf was able to give more right
            answers than anybody else, and Aymon, sitting beside him, began to nudge him warningly.
            But Rainolf only nudged back and went on answering as many more as he could; for he had
            always been anxious to learn, and before coming to Aachen had studied hard at a little
            monastery school near his home castle.
          While the boys and girls were having their lesson the grown folks were all busy with
            their own books. But soon the King, who was always interested in how things went on in
            his school, noticed Rainolf and quietly listened as the boy, with bright eyes and eager
            face, modestly answered Master Alcuin's questions. And after a while, when the school
            was  dismissed for the day, before Charlemagne passed out
            he looked toward the boys' bench and beckoned to Rainolf.
          Rainolf was so surprised and abashed that he blushed and stared and stood as if rooted
            to the spot.
          "Go on, booby!" whispered Aymon anxiously, giving him a hurried push.
          At this Rainolf suddenly plunged forward, and gathering his wits together managed to
            bow respectfully as he stood before the King, though he was trembling with excitement
            and his knees fairly knocked together.
          "Lad," said the King, smiling at his embarrassment, "I liked the way you answered
            Master Alcuin's questions. I wish all my subjects would try as hard to learn something!"
            And the great King sighed; for above all things he longed to civilize his people and
            teach them the world's best knowledge. Then, suddenly extending his hand to the boy;
            "Child," he  said, "you shall be one of my own pages. You
            remind me of Master Einhard when he was a boy in this same school. Where did you come
            from?"
          "Sir," said Rainolf faintly, at last finding his tongue, "my home is Castle Aubri, on
            the Meuse river. My father was Count Gerard. He was killed in your last war with the
            Saxons. Mother sent me here a week ago so I might go to the palace school."
          "That was right," said Charlemagne. "You have brave blood in your veins, boy. I
            remember your father well; he was a gallant soldier and a loyal subject. When we go to
            the banquet hall come up and stand near me. You shall be my cup-bearer instead of
            Charloun, who is a stupid lad." And the king left the room with Master Alcuin and the
            others.


          

          
            "'YOU SHALL BE ONE OF MY PAGES'"
          


          

        

        





        

          CHAPTER IV
            DINNER

          When the King passed on, Rainolf stood quite bewildered at his sudden advancement;
            though he could not help but wonder how it would suit Charloun, a fat dull-faced boy who
            had been made cup-bearer because his father was a powerful noble.
          And he did not have to wait long to see. For Charloun had noticed the King talking to
            Rainolf and as now the latter was alone for a moment, he marched up to him demanding
            angrily "What did the King say to you?"
          Rainolf drew himself up haughtily as he answered, "I don't know that it's any of your
            business, Charloun! Though," he added, "perhaps it is a little, seeing that he told me I
            am to be cup-bearer instead of you."



          


          At this Charloun's dull face flushed with rage and he half doubled up his fist to
            strike Rainolf. But Rainolf, who was watching him, looked him straight in the eye, and
            "Be careful!" he warned. "This is no place to fight! But if you want to come out doors
            and do it, I am ready whenever you are."
          Charloun, who was at heart a coward, dropped his fat fist and began to think he was not
            so anxious for a fight after all. And, the truth was, he was really relieved to be rid
            of the office of cup-bearer as several times Charlemagne had asked him questions about
            his lessons which he was quite unable to answer. So, muttering to himself, he stalked
            off; and Rainolf watching him smiled, for he knew Charloun was much more interested in
            the fact that it was nearly dinner-time than in his lost honors.
          Meantime in the great banquet hall near the schoolroom long tables were set, the one
            for the royal family being placed on a dais at the  upper
            end of the room. There were no cloths on these tables which were all made of polished
            boards laid over trestles, but on the royal one and those for the many noble ladies and
            gentlemen of the household were fine silver plates and gold and silver cups and flagons.
            There were neither forks nor spoons, however, only knives, which were needed to cut the
            meat of which there was always a great supply, and this and the other things people were
            expected to eat with their fingers. At the lower end of the hall were tables for the
            humbler palace folks, who had only wooden plates and great earthenware platters for
            their meat.
          Rainolf had come into the hall while things were being made ready, and as he stood
            quietly watching them he thought how different was the great palace, with its handsome
            rooms and all the gold and silver dishes from his own home. His father's castle, like
            those of most of the Frankish nobles through the country, 
            was just a big wooden house built around a square courtyard and protected outside by a
            palisade of roughly hewn logs and a moat beyond that. To be sure, there were many things
            going on within the wooden walls of the big rambling house. His father had had his own
            armorer; there was a stable for his war horses; there was a small mill where they ground
            the grain raised by the peasants on the castle lands; there were rooms where his mother
            and her maids spun and wove and embroidered; -- though as Rainolf looked at the
            wonderful tapestries hanging on the palace walls he could not but admit they were more
            beautiful than those his mother had so carefully made for their home and which he had
            always before thought the finest in all the world. And then the dishes at home were just
            great wooden bowls with only a few silver and copper flagons, -- but never mind, for
            dinner was ready and all the palace folks were taking their places.


          


          Rainolf, as he had been bidden, came and stood near the chair of Charlemagne. Though it
            seemed strange to him to be so close to the great King, yet he was not so awkward in his
            new place as he had been used to waiting on his father in the same way.
          Meantime, Aymon and the other pages busied themselves bringing in food for the royal
            table and those of the nobles. The boys only carried the dishes, for the carving and
            serving of them was an honor belonging to the highborn young men.
          "Boy," whispered one of these, a tall handsome youth standing near Rainolf, "take that
            golden flagon and fill the King's cup with wine."
          Rainolf hastened to do as he was told, and lifting in both hands the beautiful golden
            cup richly chased with figures of saints and circled with precious stones, he sank on
            one knee, as his father had taught him, and held it up to the King, who received it
            graciously, barely  tasted it, and set it down by his
            plate. And Rainolf found that being cup-bearer for Charlemagne was not very hard work,
            as he took only three sips of wine all through the dinner. Wine was then the common
            drink, but the King despised drunkenness and always set the example of taking but
            little.
          Neither was the dinner elaborate, for Charlemagne liked simple things, and, best of
            all, the roasted pheasants and hares which presently two hunters came bringing in piping
            hot and still on the long iron spits on which they had been cooked at the kitchen
            fireplace. These were carved and placed on the King's plate by the young Frankish noble
            who served also Queen Luitgarde and a tall man in rich priestly robes who sat at the
            King's left. This was the Archbishop of the Aachen cathedral, and near him was the
            teacher Master Alcuin; for Charlemagne always delighted to honor religion and
            learning.


          


          At the royal table also sat young Master Einhard who smiled kindly at Rainolf, who
            colored and smiled back; for the two seemed drawn to one another, and, indeed, were to
            become close friends in spite of the difference in their ages. Next to Master Einhard
            the dwarf Malagis perched on his own special chair, and now and then catching Rainolf's
            eye he would give him so droll a wink that the boy could hardly keep his face straight;
            and he did not dare to laugh for all through dinner everybody kept very still because at
            one side of the hall a brown-robed monk was standing holding in his hands a parchment
            book from which he read aloud in Latin.
          The book was a beautifully painted copy of "The City of God," written by the good Saint
            Augustine. Rainolf was not yet far enough along in his studies to understand it very
            well, and very likely most of the other people in the room were in the same case; but he
            noticed  that Charlemagne listened attentively and seemed
            greatly to enjoy it, for he understood Latin and liked always to be read to while he
            ate.
          Presently, however, the reading and dinner both came to an end; the latter finishing
            with large baskets of apples and cherries which were passed around to every one.
          When the King left the hall it was to go, as usual, straight upstairs to his
            sleeping-room where he took off his clothes and went to bed for a couple of hours.
            Charlemagne counted much on this after-dinner nap, for his life was busy and full of
            care and he was but a poor sleeper at night. So hush, everybody!
        

        
        

           CHAPTER V
            MALAGIS AND THE BOYS

          "Rainolf," said Aymon as the two boys went out into the courtyard after they had had
            their dinner, "while the King is sleeping, let's get the other boys and go over to the
            forest and see if there is anything in our rabbit snares."
          "All right!" said Rainolf, and soon the group of pages left the palace and crossing a
            few open meadows came to the edge of the great wild forest that stretched on and on,
            nobody knew how far.
          Here the boys scattered for awhile hunting the traps which several of them had placed
            there. But the little forest creatures had all been too wary for them and none had been
            caught. So by and by, answering Rainolf's  halloo, they all
            came out and, as the air was heavy and warm under the dense boughs, were glad to throw
            themselves on the grass beneath a great oak tree which stood near a bubbling spring.
            This spring was thought to have miraculous power, but many people who visited it were
            afraid of witches and fairies whom they thought lived in the forest beyond; so as charms
            against these they often brought little silver trinkets, a number of which dangled from
            the boughs of the oak. The spot was a favorite lounging place for the boys, and this
            time they found some one ahead of them.
          "Look!" said Aymon, "There's Malagis! I wonder if he thinks he can straighten his
            crooked foot by hanging it in the spring?"
          "Tut! Tut!" said Malagis, who had heard them, "I'm not so silly! I'm just poking up
            these bubbles with my toes to see if there are really fairies playing ball with them as
            some people say."


          

          "You had better be careful," said Aymon seriously, "They might not like your
            impudence."
          "Pshaw!" retorted Malagis, taking care however to remove his foot, "I'm not afraid of
            fairies,-- or witches either!" he added loftily. "I guess I know a few spells
            myself."
          Here the boys looked at him respectfully and with some awe; for while he liked to chaff
            with them and allowed them to be very familiar with him, nevertheless everybody declared
            Malagis was a master of magic arts.
          "Well," said one of the boys, after a pause, "maybe the King will let you work your
            spells, because you're his dwarf; but I heard one of the officers of the palace say the
            other day that Charlemagne had made a new law forbidding anybody to practice
            witchcraft."
          At this Malagis looked very wise, but merely said, "That doesn't hurt me any. I'm not a
            witch! Though there are plenty of them in  yonder forest!"
            and he nodded his head toward the dark trees behind them.
          The boys shivered a little and drew closer together; for most people then believed in
            witches and fairies and dragons, too, for that matter. More than once it had been
            whispered that firebreathing dragons were to be found in some of the rocky caverns
            hidden among the trees.
          "Malagis," said Rainolf, as he peered into its shadows, "how far does the forest
            reach?"
          "Oh," answered the dwarf vaguely, "ever and ever and ever so far! Leagues and leagues
            and leagues; I dare say it's part of the big forest where Charlemagne overthrew the
            Irminsul."
          "What was that?" asked one of the other boys.
          "Why," said Malagis, "it was the special idol of the Saxon folks. You know they are the
            wild heathen tribes up north of here that  tie their hair
            up in top-knots and carry great wooden clubs, and that Charlemagne has been fighting for
            years and years trying to conquer and make Christians of."
          "Well, the thing they called the Irminsul was a big wooden pillar set up in a certain
            place in the forest and on top of it was an image of a man wearing a helmet and carrying
            a shield with a bear and lion carved on it. There were great treasures of gold and
            jewels at the foot of the pillar, offerings from the Saxons; for the Irminsul was their
            most sacred idol."
          "And did you say Charlemagne threw it over?" put in Aymon.
          "Indeed he did!" answered Malagis. "He marched up there with his army and hunted
            through the forest till he found where it was. Of course the Saxons rushed out all ready
            to fight, but then they felt sure the idol would do something terrible to the King and
            save them  the trouble. So they stood around waiting for it
            to happen."
          "But that didn't bother Charlemagne a bit. He defied them. And then instead of the
            Irminsul doing anything, he simply walked up to it and knocked it over and smash! down
            it tumbled and broke all to pieces! After that he burned up the wooden pillar and took
            the treasures and divided them among his bravest captains."
          "What did the Saxons say to that?" asked Rainolf.
          "Well," said Malagis, "at first they were stunned; but they still had hopes of revenge.
            For it seems the King's army had had to march a long way without any water, and the
            Saxons saw the Franks were half dead from thirst and thought they would all die entirely
            in a few minutes and that that was the way the Irminsul meant to punish them."
          "But, bless your heart," went on Malagis  chuckling, "just
            then along came a big black cloud and when it got right over Charlemagne's army what did
            it do but burst and pour down buckets and buckets-full of water, so they had all they
            could drink and more, too! When the Saxons saw that, they were as meek as could be and
            all said they would submit to the King and be Christians. And there were so many that it
            kept Archbishop Turpin and all the priests who were along with Charlemagne busy for
            three days baptizing them. Of course more of the heathen ones keep cropping up now and
            then for the King to fight, but he has them very well under control now."
          "The King is surely a great warrior!" said Rainolf.
          "Yes," said Malagis, "but he's greater still at making good laws and seeing that people
            mind them. He's great on learning, too. That's why, years ago, he sent all the way to
            Britain for Master Alcuin to come over and  start the
            palace school; he wanted his children and everybody's children to learn something. You
            boys are lucky to have Master Alcuin teach you awhile, for he is a famous scholar."
          "Why, won't he teach us all the time?" asked Rainolf.
          "No," said Aymon, "didn't I tell you that three years ago the King gave him the Abbey
            at Tours and he has started another big school there?"
          "Yes," said Malagis, "he is just here now because the King wanted to consult him about
            something."
          "Who will teach us when he goes back?" again asked Rainolf.
          "Probably that big sandy-haired monk who sat to-day near Master Einhard," said Malagis,
            "Did you notice him?"
          "No," said Rainolf, who had been rather bewildered by the number of grown people in the
            school.


          


          "Well," said Malagis, who was in a talkative mood, "it's funny how he got here. One
            day, about two years ago, I was going along the street in Aachen, and when I came to the
            market-place there on a bench stood that monk and another one like him, both Scotch
            though they had come here from Ireland. They were both crying out at the top of their
            lungs, 'Knowledge to sell! Knowledge to sell! Who'll buy?' for all the world like a
            couple of fishmongers."
          "I thought it so odd, that when I got back to the palace I told Charlemagne and he sent
            for them to come to him. He asked them if it was true they were trying to hawk knowledge
            as if it were a brace of pigeons, and they said yes, it was; that they had first-rate
            knowledge to sell to the highest bidder. The King was pleased with them, and amused,
            too, I think. Anyway, he engaged them for teachers, and they proved to  be fine. One of them is off now starting more schools."
          "Does Master Einhard teach?" asked Rainolf, who wanted to know who everybody was.
          "No," said Malagis, "he has about all he can do as the King's scribe; though he is a
            mighty good minnesinger besides and often sings in the evenings. He was taught in the
            palace school with the King's children and always stood so high in his studies that
            Charlemagne noticed him and has shown him great favor."
          "You were lucky, boy," continued the dwarf, eying Rainolf shrewdly, "to attract the
            King's attention to-day. It's the good scholars that always get his help. Do you know
            what he did not long ago?"
          "No," said Rainolf wonderingly.
          "I will tell you," said Malagis, clasping his hands around his knees on which he rested
            his 
            
              "MALAGIS PURSED UP HIS LIPS AND SMILED"
            
            
             peaked chin. " He was on his way home from the town of
            Paderborn and stopped for dinner at the monastery of Saint Martin, and after dinner went
            in to look at the monastery school. About half the children there came from noble
            families and lived in castles, and the rest were just poor children from the village of
            Saint Martin. The King began asking questions, and it seems all the noble children had
            been spending their time playing and paying no attention to the monks; so just about all
            the answers he got came from the poor children who were used to minding and did what
            they were told and studied their books.
          "Charlemagne was very angry. He quickly sorted out all the poor children and put them
            at his right hand and praised them and spoke kindly to them. And then he turned around
            and if he didn't give those noble children the worst lecture they ever got!"
          Here Malagis pursed up his lips and smiled  as he went on,
            "He told them they would be terribly fooled if they thought because their fathers were
            noblemen they could have honors whether they knew anything or not. He said he would show
            his favor to the people who were learning things, no matter how poor they were, and if
            those noble children expected to get anything from him they would have to start in and
            do some studying."
          Here some of the boys who had not been getting on much at the palace school, began to
            look very uncomfortable, and one of them hastened to change the subject. "Malagis," he
            said, pointing to one of the high towers of the palace not far away, "is that really a
            brazen eagle there on top of the tower? It is so high up I can't see it very well."
          "And," said another boy, "is it true that sometimes it turns by magic, and that then
            the King knows that he is needed in whatever part  of his
            kingdom the eagle seems to look toward?"
          "Yes," answered Malagis gravely, "it is quite true. I helped to place that eagle
            myself!" and he wagged his head proudly. "You just keep watch of it,"-- here Malagis
            crumpled his claw-like hands into a sort of funnel through which his keen eyes peered at
            the eagle as he went on slowly,--"it's beginning now to turn -- just the least -- little
            tiny bit -- to the south!"
          "What does that mean?" asked the boys eagerly. "What is south of here?" For none of
            them knew much geography; nor did anybody else, for that matter. You would have laughed
            to see their maps and wondered how anyone found his way about at all.
          "Hm," said Malagis sagely, "there is a great deal south of us. There is Burgundy and
            Africa and Spain and a great deal of Asia and the kingdom of Prester John,"-- which most
               people thought was a wonderful place, somewhere to the
            southeast, where there were red and blue lions and many marvelous things. So Malagis
            supposed he was telling the truth, as also about Asia; but then he came back to facts
            when he added, "Yes, and there's Italy and Rome where the Pope lives. I wouldn't wonder
            if the eagle is going to mean Italy."
          Here a little group of Aachen folk came bringing a blind man to the spring so that he
            might bathe his eyes in its miraculous waters. And the boys and Malagis slowly strolled
            off toward the palace.


          


          
            "IT WAS THE DAY OF THE GREAT BOAR HUNT"
          

        
        
        



        


          CHAPTER VI
            A BOAR HUNT AND A MUSIC LESSON

          It was the day of the great boar hunt for which spears and knives had been sharpening
            for at least a week. Everybody had been up since dawn and the palace courtyard rang with
            the neighing of horses and the baying of hounds.
          Presently the king appeared, his blue eyes sparkling and eager; for hunting was his
            favorite sport. Indeed, the great wild forest full of wild beasts to be chased was, next
            to the warm springs, the chief reason why he had built his finest palace at the edge of
            Aachen.
          Soon Charlemagne had mounted a splendid black horse which had been pawing the ground
            impatiently as a young Frankish noble clung to the bronze chains which served for bridle
            and which he now handed over to the King as  the latter
            arranged himself on the handsomely carved leather saddle. He was dressed as usual, save
            that stuck through his sword-belt shone a long knife with a jeweled handle, while slung
            over one shoulder was a silver chain from which hung his hunting horn. It was made from
            the horn of an ox, the broad end being finished with a band of silver on which were
            chased hounds running at full speed.
          The young Frank next handed the King a long, polished boar-spear, and at this signal
            all the other huntsmen sprang to their saddles, seized their spears from the attendants,
            the packs of hounds were turned loose, and Clatter! Clatter! Clatter! Thud! Thud! Thud!
            Bow- wow! Wow-wow-wow! Brrh-rrh! off they rushed toward the great forest.
          On, on they pelted, across the meadows, toward the tall trees; and once within their
            shadows little they cared whether witch or fairy crossed their path. For the one thought
            of all  those headlong huntsmen was for their bellow- ing
            hounds to start up some one of the fierce wild boars from his forest lair, so that they
            might chase him as with quivering bristles and red burning eyes he flew before them.
          As Rainolf and the other boys, who had been in the courtyard watching the hunt start,
            heard the last echoes die away in the forest they all sighed enviously, and "Oh," said
            Rainolf, "don't I wish they'd have let us go along!"
          All the rest felt quite the same way about it; for they had been taught to ride and
            could shoot very well with their bows and arrows, though, of course, they could not
            handle spears as yet. As they turned around with long faces, they were only half
            consoled when Aymon said, "Well, one comfort, Master Alcuin says we are to have a half
            holiday and need only take our singing lesson over in the cathedral."
          So in a little while they all went over to the  great
            cathedral which the King had caused to be built near the palace. It was very beautiful,
            being patterned after one Charlemagne had seen in Italy; and, as for the palace, he had
            brought wonderful Italian marbles and mosaics for it. Inside, in the place for the
            choir, was a carved wooden rack which held a very large parchment book. Its open pages
            were covered with bars of music made big enough so a number of singers could stand in
            front of it and yet be able to see the notes; for books were too scarce for everybody to
            have one.
          When the boys entered the cathedral a row of men were already ranged in front of the
            choir book, among them Master Einhard, who smiled at Rainolf and made room for him
            beside himself as the other boys took their places behind, peering at the book as best
            they could. Facing them all stood the black-eyed teacher whom Charlemagne had brought
            from Italy to show the Frankish singers how properly  to
            chant the church service and also to instruct the children in music.
          As now the Italian beat time with one hand and sang "do-re-mi-fa," he frowned at the
            untrained voices of the Franks; that is, all but Master Einhard and Rainolf. These two
            had very sweet voices which blended well together; and as Rainolf stood beside Master
            Einhard he felt that he would rather sing beautifully than to do almost anything else,
            and he wondered if this was what Master Leobard meant when he said there would be
            something he would care more for than being a warrior. "Yes," he said to himself, "if I
            could only sing and make up songs of my own like Master Einhard does! And I will some
            day!" For, as Rainolf sang, a power began to waken within him.
          Meantime, the Italian teacher fairly wrung his hands as the other singers went on
            do-re-mi- fa-ing without the least idea how badly they were doing it. And soon another
            sound arose  which was almost as bad as their singing. It
            was the cathedral organ, which a young Frank was playing while another strapping youth
            puffed and panted as he worked a large bellows by which he forced the air into its few
            brass pipes. The keys were wide and heavy, and the young Frank in front of them struck
            each one a resounding blow with his fist, as that was the only way anybody could play on
            them.
          Nevertheless, this organ, which was the first any of the Frankish people had seen, was
            considered very wonderful indeed, and had been sent all the way from Constantinople as a
            present from the Greek emperor. And only the Sunday before, a noble Frankish lady had
            actually fainted from sheer joy at hearing so marvelous a musical instrument! So, you
            see, you really had better not laugh at it nor at the young Frank cheerfully pounding
            away with both fists.
          The choir singers and the boys listened to  the organ with
            great respect, as they had been taught, and supposed of course it must be very grand.
            Still, most of them felt relieved when the music lesson was over and they went out into
            the quiet morning air.
          In the cathedral porch was a stone seat; and here as the boys passed along they saw
            Malagis curled up beside an old man wrapped in a long mantle and holding on his knees a
            musical instrument which looked something like a fiddle.
          "I wonder where Malagis picked up that minnesinger?" whispered Rainolf to Aymon.
          But here the dwarf greeted the boys with a laugh. "Hey!" he cried. "We have been
            listening to your squawking,-- all but Rainolf there,--he sings fairly well,-- but as
            for the rest of you I thought some angry cats had climbed in at the windows and were
            fighting it out inside! But my friend here says he knows that Italian teacher of yours
            and that he is so fine that no matter how badly you bellow now,  by and by you will all sing like a parcel of bluebirds. So cheer up!"
          The old man, who had a gentle face, smiled at the speech of Malagis, and "Come, friend
            minstrel," said the dwarf, "sing us another song, like you sang to me a while ago, and
            show the youngsters what singing is!"
          The boys crowded eagerly around, for everybody delighted in these wandering minstrels,
            or minnesingers as they were often called, and whose songs usually told some story, thus
            taking the place of story books which nobody had then.
          The singer was from the southern part of Gaul, where they were better trained than in
            the ruder parts of the kingdom, and they all listened with pleasure as he touched the
            strings of his instrument and sang several song-stories in a voice still sweet and
            mellow, though he was no longer young.
          Presently, after he had paused to rest awhile,  "Won't you
            sing us another, sir minstrel?" begged Rainolf.
          "I am a little tired, lad," answered the minstrel, "for before I fell in with your
            friend Malagis here, I had been practicing my song about Roland and the battle of
            Roncesvalles, which is my most difficult piece."
          "Well," said Malagis, pursing his lips and shaking his head, "you had better leave that
            out of your list, my friend, if you want to sing in the palace before King Charlemagne,
            as I believe you said you did."
          "Why," said the minstrel with a disappointed look, "it is my best song, and I thought
            he would like it. It is a favorite subject with the minnesingers where I come from. The
            Pass of Roncesvalles is not so very far from my home."
          "That may be," said Malagis firmly, "but you don't know the King. He has never gotten
            over the loss of his nephew Roland and all the  brave
            Paladins with him, and has never been quite the same since that battle. So I advise you
            to choose some other subject for him."
          "But, sir minstrel," put in one of the boys, "won't you tell us the story? We won't ask
            you to sing it if you are tired, but just tell it. Of course we've heard of Roland and
            the Pass of Roncesvalles, but we'd like to hear what you have to say about it."
          But the story will make a chapter all to itself.

        
        

        



          CHAPTER VII THE MINNESINGER TELLS OF ROLAND

          "I dare say," began the minstrel, "you know it all happened more than twenty years ago.
            King Charlemagne with a great army had gone down to Spain to fight the Saracens there,
            who were heathens ruled by the Emir Marsilius. With Charlemagne were his twelve
            Paladins, the noblest and bravest knights of the realm; and among them the bravest of
            all was young Roland, the King's nephew."
          "Did you see Roland, sir?" asked Rainolf eagerly. "Malagis remembers him and says he
            was the handsomest knight he ever saw, and that he had more adventures than anybody else
            and had even spent a while in fairyland!" To which Malagis gravely nodded his head.
          "Why, yes," said the minstrel, with a rather  bewildered
            look, "I didn't know about his being in fairyland, but maybe he had, for every-
            everybody said he had had a wonderful life. I saw the whole army as it went by on the
            way to Spain; for my home is near the Pyrenees Mountains which divide Spain from Gaul.
            It was a great sight, the King in his iron armor riding a prancing war-horse and
            carrying a huge lance, and following him thousands of soldiers with spears and shields
            and banners and trumpets. The twelve Paladins rode together, Roland side by side with
            Oliver, his brother-in- arms."
          "Malagis said they had been best friends ever since they were little boys!" said
            Aymon.
          "True," said the minstrel, "and a noble pair they were. Hanging from Roland's shoulder
            by a golden chain I saw the gleam of his ivory horn Olivant. I suppose you know about
            that?" and the minstrel paused inquiringly.
          "0 yes!" cried several of the boys. "It  was the magic
            horn that had belonged to the King's grandfather, Charles the Hammer. It was made of the
            tooth of a sea-horse and all set thick with precious stones. After Charles the Hammer
            died nobody, not even King Charlemagne, could make the horn blow till Roland tried it
            one day and then it blew so loud that they heard it all the way from Aachen to Paris! So
            the King gave it to Roland."
          "Good!" said the minstrel, while Malagis nodded approvingly. "And I suppose it's no use
            to tell you about his sword Durandal, either?"
          "Yes," said the boys, "we know the King gave that to Roland too, and it was one Trojan
            Hector wore. It was the sharpest sword in the world."
          "Was it any finer than King Charlemagne's sword?" asked Rainolf. "Isn't Joyeuse very
            wonderful?"
          "Joyeuse is indeed a wonderful sword,"  answered Malagis.
            "Folks say that forged in it is the tip of the spear that pierced our Saviour's side. I
            don't know whether that is so or not, but it is a very terrible weapon. Though, for that
            matter," he added, " any weapon would be terrible enough in the hands of King
            Charlemagne. But," he said turning to the minstrel, "go on with your tale. It agrees
            very well with what I have always told these youngsters here."
          "So," went on the minstrel, "Charlemagne crossed the Pyrenees and marched into Spain.
            After some very hard fighting he captured a number of Saracen cities, and in one of
            them, Cordova, he decided to rest awhile. While he was there messengers came from the
            Emir saying their master was anxious for peace, and that if the Franks would go back to
            Gaul, Marsilius would soon come to Aachen and swear homage to Charlemagne and be
            baptized as a Christian. He offered rich presents as pledges  of his good faith if the King would send a favorable answer.
          "When Charlemagne asked the Paladins what they thought about it, all but Roland and
            Oliver advised him to make peace."
          "You haven't said anything about Ganelon, the traitor, sir!" said Rainolf.
          "Give me time, lad!" replied the minstrel. "I was just coming to him. I suppose you
            know he was the one the King sent back with the messengers to say he would make peace
            and to receive the pledges from Marsilius; though, of course, Charlemagne had no idea
            how false- hearted Ganelon was."
          "And Ganelon hated Roland, too, didn't he?" interrupted one of the boys.
          "Yes," said the minstrel, "he was a miserable traitor; and when he went to the Emir and
            Marsilius offered him a sum of gold if he would help plan how to destroy Charlemagne's
            army, he eagerly agreed. Though he knew Marsilius  could
            never conquer the whole army, he showed him how he might trap a part of it in which
            would be Roland and most of the bravest knights.
          "Then he went back to Cordova with the rich presents from the Emir and told the King
            everything was all right and Marsilius would do as he promised.
          "So Charlemagne started back to Gaul. He did not expect any trouble, but, as every wise
            commander does on leaving a country where enemies might be lurking, he placed a strong
            guard at the back of his army. In this rear guard were the good Archbishop Turpin, who
            was as good a fighter as a bishop, the Paladins, and twenty thousand fighting men, all
            led by Roland.
          "After several days' marching, King Charlemagne leading the main army climbed over the
            rocky peaks of the Pyrenees and entered Gaul; only the rear guard was still making its
            way  through the mountain valleys and steep narrow
            passes."
          "Then they heard the Saracens' trumpets!" broke in one of the boys; for they all knew
            the story and always grew excited in the telling.
          "Yes," said the minstrel, "all at once they heard a terrible blast of trumpets, and
            Oliver sprang from his horse and climbed to the top of a tall pine tree to try to see
            where the enemy was. He looked in all directions, and then he came down and said that
            never had he seen so great a host of Saracens! Their bright spears were gleaming on all
            sides; for, as Ganelon had planned, they had followed the rear guard and trapped them in
            the narrowest pass of the Pyrenees where it would be hardest for the Franks to defend
            themslves."
          "We know!" cried Aymon. "It was the Pass of Roncesvalles!"-- which means in our
            language the Valley of Thorns, and remember this; for everybody nowadays is expected to
               know about Roland and the Valley of Thorns just as much
            as those boys listening to the old minstrel over eleven hundred years ago.
          "In a moment," went on the minstrel, "they heard the trumpets sounding nearer; and then
            Oliver, who had seen that the Saracens outnumbered the rear guard at least ten to one,
            begged Roland to blow his wonderful horn Olivant so that King Charlemagne might hear and
            come back to help them."
          "But Roland was too brave!" exclaimed Rainolf.
          "True," said the minstrel, "he was too brave and proud, and scorned to blow his horn
            for help against the heathens. Three times Oliver begged him, but each time he refused.
            Then the good Archbishop Turpin raised his hands and blessed all the men; for none of
            them hoped to escape alive. When he had finished, he drew his own sword with the 
            

              "'WITH HIS DYING BREATH BLEW A LONG BLAST'"

            
            
             rest and soon the Saracens rushed upon them and the fight
            began. Long and terrible was the battle, and bravely did the Frankish heroes defend
            themselves; but at length, one by one, all had fallen before the spears of the Saracens,
            save only Roland and Oliver and the good Archbishop, and they, too, were mortally
            wounded.
          "Then at last Roland raised Olivant to his lips and with his dying breath blew a long
            blast; not hoping for help, for it was now too late, but because the Archbishop wished
            that Charlemagne might come and bear their bodies away from the wolves and wild
            beasts.
          The blast echoed through the mountains, loud and clear and piercing, till far away in
            Gaul King Charlemagne heard it and knew that something terrible had happened, and
            quickly he turned about and hastened back over the Pyrenees. He ordered all his
            trumpeters to keep sounding their trumpets so that when 
            they drew near Roland would know they were coming.
          "But the King's army had far to march, and long before it reached the Pass of
            Roncesvalles all lay dead there save Roland. Then he staggered to his feet, and taking
            in his hand his wonderful sword Durandal, with a last effort he struck its blade against
            a mighty rock."
          "Why did he do that? " asked Rainolf.
          "Because," answered the minstrel, "he thought he would rather destroy Durandal than
            have it fall into the hands of the heathen. But instead of Durandal breaking, it was the
            great rock that split, for nothing could turn the edge of that magic blade. Four times
            Roland struck with Durandal, but each time bright and shining he drew it from a fresh
            cleft in the stone,-- and I have seen those clefts myself," declared the minstrel, "so I
            know it is true! Then Roland lay down on the grass and placing Durandal and Olivant
            under his body, he  held up his right hand to God, and so
            died the hero."
          Everybody was very still for a few minutes. Then presently one of the boys said,
            "Malagis says that King Charlemagne cried when he came back and found Roland and all the
            brave Paladins and everybody dead."
          "Indeed he did!" said Malagis. "One of the soldiers who was with the army told me the
            King cried bitterly. And no wonder! It was a terrible blow to lose all his bravest
            knights, and he was immensely fond of Roland."
          "Where did they bury Roland?" asked the minstrel. "I never quite knew."
          "At the Abbey of Blaye," answered Malagis. "Charlemagne had Roland and Oliver and the
            Archbishop laid there in beautiful white marble tombs."
          "Please," inquired Rainolf, "what became of Durandal and Olivant?"
          "Well," said Malagis slowly, "the King  took the horn
            Olivant and filled it with gold and sent it to the church at Bordeaux where it may be
            seen in front of the altar."
          "And Durandal?" again asked Rainolf.
          But Malagis, who did not know about the end of Durandal (nor does anybody else),
            pretended not to hear; and jumping down from the stone seat, "Upon my word!" he cried.
            "Why, it is past dinner time! Come on, sir minstrel, and try the palace fare. The King
            will give you welcome when the hunt is over."
          So they all went over to the palace; and late in the day the hunters rode back with two
            great boars. These had fought viciously when brought to bay, and killed three hounds
            with their sharp tusks and badly wounded one of the huntsmen; so the hunt was considered
            to have been a great success. King Charlemagne was in high spirits, and after supper
            everybody went into the palace hall where they listened to 
            the minstrel as he sang his song-stories. The King praised him much, for heeding the
            advice of Malagis, he was wise enough to leave out the one about Roland.

        
        

        

           CHAPTER VIII
            PRESENTS FOR THE KING

          One afternoon late in the summer all the children of Aachen were racing and chasing
            through its crooked streets and looking eagerly down the long road beyond that stretched
            away to the south. Even the grown folks were coming to their doors and standing as if
            they expected to see something.
          Soon Rainolf and the palace pages came hurrying along, and as they passed a black-
            beamed house where an old man was blinking at the window, "Master Leobard," said
            Rainolf, "do you know when they are coming?"
          "No, lad," answered the old astrologer, "but the stars say the King is to receive a
            present soon, so I dare say it will be along by and by." And muttering to himself he
            went  back to tending a fire in a queer earthen stove where
            in some curious vessels he was trying, as did many people then, to make gold out of
            something else and, of course, not succeeding.
          "Master Leobard says the stars told him," laughed one of the boys, "but maybe the
            runner that came to the palace last night had fresher news."
          "Where did that runner come from?" asked another.
          "I think from the nearest town south of here," said Aymon. "You know he came to tell
            the King some people are on the way here bringing him something, I didn't hear
            what."
          "I guess he told all the town folks, too," said Rainolf, "from the way they are on the
            lookout!"

          By this time they had come to the edge of Aachen. "Let's go down the road a piece,"
            said Aymon. "Surely they will have to come this way."


          


          So on they loitered past little thatched huts here and there in the fields, where the
            peasant folk lived. Presently, "I'm thirsty!" said one of the boys; "let's go over to
            that hut and get a drink."
          When they reached it and looked in at the door a gust of smoke blew in their faces from
            an open fire on the bare earthen floor. Over this was an iron pot full of thin soup
            which a woman was stirring with one hand as she held in her arms a shock-headed baby
            dressed in homespun. At one side of the room were two or three wooden troughs filled
            with straw which were the family beds. In the middle of the floor a block of wood made
            from the stump of a tree did for table and came handy also when they needed to cut
            bread, which was always so coarse and hard that when they wanted any the father usually
            had to chop off pieces with his ax.
          When the boys asked the woman for a  drink, she handed
            them a gourd and pointed toward a tree in a near-by field; and scampering over there
            they found a spring of good water. When they returned the gourd, "Aren't you going over
            to the road?" asked Aymon.
          But she only stared at him without answering. For the Frankish peasants knew but little
            beyond ploughing the fields with their rude ploughs and toiling for a bare living. And
            the hut was not poorer than most of the others dotting the country.
          But the boys had already hurried off, for "Look!" cried Rainolf, pointing down the
            road, "there they come!"
          Sure enough, a number of people were coming toward them. Some were riding spirited
            Arabian horses and some walking, all had black eyes and hair, quite different from the
            Franks, and all had on large turbans and flowing robes such as people wear in the Far
            East. Some  were leading pack-horses with bulging
            saddlebags, but in the midst of them came the most amazing thing of all! It was a huge
            animal with a wrinkly gray skin, wide flapping ears, little shrewd black eyes, and thick
            legs with toes like the scallops of an enormous pinking-iron -- but hear the boys,
          "Do look at that outlandish beast!"
          "What on earth do you suppose it is?"
          "Is that a tail hanging where its mouth belongs? Look! Look! how it
            keeps curling it up and poking it around!"
          "My, but that's a grand red seat on its back!"
          "Wouldn't you think that man with the queer clothes would tumble out? See how it rocks
            when the beast walks!"
          "Do you think the man is guiding it with that long wand, or do you suppose he is a
            magician?"
          "Pshaw!" you say. " Why, it was just a  circus procession,
            and didn't those silly boys know an elephant when they saw it?"
          Well, you are quite mistaken; for it was no circus procession even if there was an
            elephant in it. Indeed, none of the Franks had ever heard of such a thing as a circus;
            while as for elephants, most of them would have been far less surprised if a dragon had
            come flying out of the forest, for they knew much more about dragons - or thought they
            did.
          No, the people coming along the road were messengers from Haroun-al-Raschid, the great
            Caliph of Bagdad, ever and ever so far away in Asia. (If you have read your Arabian
            Nights stories you know all about the great Caliph; and, if you don't know, you had best
            hurry up and find out.) Now, Haroun-al-Raschid and the mighty Charlemagne, though they
            had never met, were very good friends and admired each other greatly. Some time before,
            the King had sent messengers bearing handsome  presents and
            good wishes to the Caliph. It had taken over three years to reach Bagdad, for it was
            then a long and dangerous journey; while they were there the Caliph, who wished after a
            while to send gifts in return, asked them what they thought the King would like, and
            they said they knew one thing Charlemagne wanted dreadfully and that was an
            elephant.
          So, by and by, when Haroun-al-Raschid sent his own messengers to bear presents and his
            good wishes to the King, he remembered about the elephant and took care to send an extra
            big fine one. And at last, after a long long journey, here it was tramping along the
            road almost to Aachen!
          Of course the boys all ran along behind as the procession wound through the town, the
            strangers looking curiously about, the Arab horses daintily picking their way over the
            rough stones, and the elephant lumbering steadily  along
            and all the while peering around with his sharp little eyes.
          And how the town folks said, "Oh!" and "Ah!" and "What do you think
            that queer animal is?" till they reached the palace where the strangers dismounted in
            the courtyard. They unpacked the bulging saddle-bags which were full of presents, and
            with these in their arms they were taken to the great hall of the palace where
            Charlemagne received them with kindness and honor. And soon he himself came out to see
            the wonderful elephant, which seemed to delight him more than anything else.
          The boys stayed around as close as they dared, and, when presently, the elephant was
            led off to a special stall in the royal stables, they followed.
          "What a magnificent embroidered cloth that is hanging over his back!" said Rainolf.
          "Yes," said another boy, "those pearls and jewels sewed on it must have cost a
            lot!"


          


          "How do you suppose he eats, with that queer tail on his mouth?" said Aymon. "Let's
            watch what they feed him."
          And they had great fun seeing everything that was done for him and getting acquainted
            with the Bagdad elephant, who was to live in Aachen for nine years and be the chief
            pride of Charlemagne in all the royal processions of the time. He was even to go to war
            with him and carry the King's own baggage on his broad back.
          Meantime, while the boys were off in the stables, the other rich presents sent by the
            Caliph were being displayed and discussed by everybody.
          "Have you seen the wonderful clock?" said one to another.
          "No, what is a clock?"
          "It is something that tells the time of day!"
          "Is it anything like our sun-dials or hourglasses?"



          


          "Not a bit! It is a kind of machine that runs by water. It is shaped like a tower with
            twelve windows, and they say that each hour the windows open and bronze horsemen ride
            out and then ride in again!"
          "How wonderful!"
          "Yes, and there are splendid silks and gold embroideries, too, for the Queen and
            Princesses!"
          "And such beautiful chess-men for the King to play with! They are men riding on animals
            like the one that came to-day and are all carved from ivory!"
          "Oh, yes, and a wonderful silk tent, too! Big enough for dozens of men, but so fine I
            believe you could squeeze it up and carry it in your fist!"
          So the tongues wagged, and, you may be sure, neither Rainolf nor any of the other boys
            missed seeing a single thing.

        
        


        


          CHAPTER IX
            RAINOLF IN THE WRITING-ROOM

          There was one part of the palace in which Rainolf especially delighted, and this was
            the great writing-room. Here, always, were to be found a number of monks from the
            monastery by the cathedral who spent their time making the most beautiful books. It was
            chiefly the Bible and the works of the older Greek and Latin authors which they
            carefully copied out by hand so more people might read them. And all the while they were
            learning more and more how to decorate and make them beautiful with gold and color.
          The King admired these beautiful painted books above all things, and in every way
            encouraged the monks to make them finer and finer. And they grew so skillful all over
            his  kingdom that the painted, or illuminated books, as
            they were called, which were made during the reign of Charlemagne are still treasured
            and admired by everybody.
          Rainolf used to spend an hour or two every day in this writing-room, for one of the
            monks, Brother Coplas, was teaching him to write, and he hoped some day to learn to
            paint also, for he longed to make a beautiful book all himself. And down in his heart he
            looked forward to the day when one of the books he made would be filled with his own
            songs. For all the while Master Einhard was helping him with his music and even
            encouraging him to make up little songs to sing.
          Rainolf was thinking of this as he was busy at work in the writing-room a few days
            after the coming of the Caliph's messengers, when the door opened and in came the King.
            With him were two of the Bagdad strangers whom he had brought to see the writing-room,
            of  which he was very proud. The visitors looked with
            interest at the queer high desks where the monks were working, at the rolls of parchment
            and the paints and gold and colored inks and goose-quill pens.
          "Father Willibrod," said the King to the head of the writing-room, "will you not show
            us some of the finished pages?"
          Father Willibrod hastened to open a great drawer in a desk nearby and displayed a
            number of large pages so beautifully written and surrounded by such brilliant and
            glowing borders of birds and flowers with here and there pictures on backgrounds of
            sparkling gold all so lovely that the strangers exclaimed with admiration and the King
            smiled with pleasure.
          "Show us some of the covers, too, Father Willibrod," he said.
          And in another drawer they saw covers already finished ready for the painted pages.  For the finest books these covers were of wrought silver set
            with precious stones, and some of beautifully carved ivory. Others were of velvet, which
            had been embroidered by the ladies of the palace; while for the commoner books deer-skin
            would be used.
          As the party was leaving the room, the King passed near the desk where Brother Coplas
            and Rainolf sat side by side. He paused a moment looking at the boy's work and "Good!"
            he said, "You are improving, lad," and then he sighed as he added, "I wish I had had
            such training when my hand was supple as yours!"
          As he passed out Brother Coplas whispered to Rainolf, "The King would give anything to
            be able to write and paint books!"
          "Why, he can write, can't he?" asked Rainolf in surprise.
          "To be sure," said Brother Coplas. "But he wants to be able to do it evenly and
            regularly as we do in our books. One of his body  servants
            told me he keeps a pen and tablet of parchment under his pillow every night, and often
            when he can't sleep he will get up and have a lamp lighted and will practice for a long
            time trying to write beautifully."
          And this was not so easy, either; for writing then was more like printing, each letter
            being made separately, which, of course, was much slower than our way of joining them
            together; a simple little trick which no one as yet had thought of.
          Before long Rainolf had finished his page, and as his fingers were tired he got up and
            strolled around the room, for he loved to look at what they were all doing.
          "Oh, but that is beautiful!" he exclaimed as he stopped by a desk where a monk was
            writing a chapter from the Bible in letters of gold on a page of parchment he had
            stained a rich purple.
          "Master Alcuin says they have nothing finer 
            

              "A MONK WAS WRITING A CHAPTER FROM THE BIBLE IN LETTERS OF
                GOLD"
            
            
             in Tours," said another brother, who had paused to admire
            the page, "and in his monastery they do famous work."
          "Yes," said Rainolf, "Brother Coplas told me Master Alcuin is having a wonderful Bible
            made there for the King."
          "Why," he said, as he came to another desk, "I didn't know you were here, Master
            Einhard! What is this you are writing? It isn't Latin!"
          "No," answered Master Einhard, who was carefully copying on neat pages something
            written on a number of loose scraps. "It is some work I am doing for the King, and I am
            writing it in our own language; for these are songs of some of the Frankish
            minnesingers. You know how the King likes songs."
          "I know he likes yours!" said Rainolf warmly.
          "Perhaps," said Master Einhard modestly. "But he likes other peoples', too. Sometimes,
               when minnesingers come on long winter evenings, he will
            have the fireplace filled with blazing logs and will wrap himself up in a big mantle of
            otter skins and sit up half the night listening to them. Some of these men come from the
            wilder parts of the kingdom up north, and they know old heathen song-stories that have
            been handed down nobody knows how long. The King is wonderfully interested in these, and
            whenever any of those people come he gets me to write down the words of the stories they
            sing, and as, of course, I have to write very fast, it needs to be copied plainly. I
            have written out ever so many, and the King is getting quite a collection." Here he
            pointed with pride to a pile of pages in a recess of his desk.
          As Rainolf passed on, Master Einhard again bent over his work; for he could not
            possibly know that twenty years later, when King Charlemagne was dead and gone, his
            stupid son  Louis would one day find those carefully
            written pages and, not dreaming of their value, would carelessly toss them in the
            fire!
          Heigho! it is a great pity to be stupid!
          Meantime, as Rainolf left the writing-room and went into the courtyard he almost ran
            into Malagis, who was standing on the toes of his good foot and whirling around like a
            weathercock.
          "Hey, youngster!" he said, "I was just taking some exercise. By the way, I have news
            for you. Didn't your horoscope say you were to see something of the world?"
          "Yes," said Rainolf, puzzled.
          "Well, I guess all of our stars must say the same thing, for we are all likely to go
            traveling."

          "How?" asked Rainolf.
          "Listen!" answered Malagis, pointing, with a wise air, to the highest palace tower.
            "Didn't I tell you youngsters a while ago that  that big
            bronze eagle was turning a tiny bit to the south? And didn't I say it meant the King
            would be needed in that direction, most likely in Italy?"
          "Yes, you did," answered Rainolf respectfully.
          "Well," said Malagis, with a triumphant gleam in his strange bright eyes, "look at it
            now!"
          As Rainolf gazed, with an awed expression, sure enough, the great bronze bird had
            veered more and more till it seemed to be looking straight to the south.
          "Now, sir," said Malagis, "I happen to know that the King has received word that Pope
            Leo is in trouble in Rome and wants the most powerful king in Christendom -- of course
            that's Charlemagne -- to come and help him. And the King is going, and, as usual, when
            he can possibly manage it, he will take nearly everybody 
            along. So there! What did I tell you!"
          And Malagis again began his whirling, while Rainolf stared at the eagle with his head
            full of eager dreams.

        
        


        


           CHAPTER X
            CHRISTMAS DAY OF THE YEAR 800


          It was quite true, as Malagis had said, Charlemagne was going to Italy early in the
            autumn and was to take most of his household with him. The household, however, was used
            to moving about with the King from palace to palace, and even when at war he often took
            his family and the school along. So everybody knew just how to arrange things.
          But as this story must end with this very chapter, I cannot begin to tell you about all
            these preparations; of the army which, of course, must be got ready, of the ox-carts and
            ox-carts full of baggage, of the horses for the men to ride, the ponies for the pages
            and the covered wagons with embroidered scarlet curtains and cushions for the ladies, of
            the  quantities of food, and the thousand and one things
            that must go along when a lot of people set out to travel.
          Neither can I stop to tell how they started off and all the interesting and wonderful
            things which Rainolf and the palace pages saw as they rode along with the great
            cavalcade. At the town of Mainz they crossed the River Rhine on a wooden bridge with
            stone piers, which the King had caused to be built a few years before, and everybody
            thought it most remarkable! And no wonder, for it was the only real bridge in all the
            Frankish kingdom; at other places they had only boats to cross rivers.
          On, on, they went, always southward; and, by and by, up, up, they clambered over the
            towering white peaks of the Alps Mountains, round precipices that made Rainolf and his
            companions fairly hold their breath, and then at last down, down, into the lovely land
            of Italy with its blue skies and olive and orange trees 
            and its cities with such beautiful castles and palaces and churches that again the boys
            caught their breath, but this time with wonder and admiration. And you would have
            gasped, too, if you had been a Frankish boy used only to Aachen and the wild forests
            around it, and if you had always thought the King's palace and the cathedral the two
            finest buildings in all the world!
          Indeed, Rainolf and the rest of the pages found out a great many things on that
            journey; and when they drew near to the ancient city of Rome they began to realize what
            it was to be in a country that had been civilized hundreds of years before. But we
            cannot stop to hear all the things they did, nor of how at length Pope Leo with his
            bishops and cardinals came to meet King Charlemagne and together they entered imperial
            Rome, all the great cavalcade following close behind.
          Rainolf and Aymon and the other boys were  quite silent
            as they rode through the streets of the famous city. They had seen so much and exclaimed
            so much on the way, that they had used up all the wonder adjectives they knew, and
            Rainolf scarcely answered when Malagis, who rode a little piebald pony beside him, poked
            him with his wand with "Well, boy, Aachen will look a bit tame when we go back,
            hey?"
          Malagis had been in Rome once before with the King, and he now began to point out this
            and that wonderful place, till they reached the beautiful marble palace where the King
            was to stay with his family and many of his nobles and closest attendants, among these
            Malagis and Rainolf his cup-bearer. Aymon and the other boys and the rest of the
            household were lodged in palaces near by.
          It is too bad we have not time to talk about the splendid feasts for the King, for they
            lasted for seven days, and at all of them Rainolf stood behind his chair, and it is not
            likely he missed  anything that went on. Then, after the
            feasting, King Charlemagne set himself to see to the matters which had brought him to
            Rome; and the end of it was he delivered Pope Leo from the enemies who had been plotting
            against him.
          By this time it was very near Christmas, and this is the great day we have been
            hurrying up to reach; for it was to be a tremendously important one in the life of
            Charlemagne, and, indeed, in the history of the world, and we cannot possibly finish
            this story without telling about it.
          Very early in the morning everybody in Rome crowded toward the great church of Saint
            Peter for the Christmas service. All who could, squeezed in, and hundreds and hundreds,
            who couldn't, stood in the large square outside. A place within had been reserved for
            the King's household, or Rainolf, who came with Master Einhard and a number of other
            Franks, would never have had a spot to stand.


          


          As they made their way through the throng, they noticed that the faces of the Roman
            people all showed a curious air of expectancy. There seemed to be a feeling everywhere
            that something unusual was going to happen. Rainolf felt it, and wondered, as he looked
            around the church which was the most splendid sight imaginable. Gold and jewels and
            mosaics glittered everywhere, and between the lofty marble columns of the long aisles
            hung curtains of the richest purple velvet which were brought out only on the grandest
            occasions.
          These partly shut out the light gleaming dimly through the windows of clouded glass,
            but hundreds of tall wax tapers shone brightly and at the eastern end of the church,
            high over the altar, a dazzle of golden light hung from golden chains.
          "Oh, Master Einhard," whispered Rainolf, "what is that beautiful thing?"
          "That is called the 'Pharos,'" said Master  Einhard. "It
            is a candelabrum of pure gold, and they say it holds three thousand candles. I was here
            once before but I never saw it lighted, for it is only for great celebrations. Isn't it
            splendid! And look at the beautiful triumphal arch over it! I think that is new for
            to-day."
          Here Rainolf breathed another long "Oh!" and so did Master Einhard; for just then some
            of the crowd in front of them moved a little so they could see between. And there,
            directly under the blazing Pharos and the triumphal arch, shone the wonderful shrine of
            the Apostle Peter in whose honor the church had been named. The shrine was covered with
            plates of gold and silver and studded with jewels; mosaics in all the colors of the
            rainbow glittered around it, and on the steps in front of it was a majestic kneeling
            figure.
          For a moment Rainolf stared in silence; then turning to Master Einhard with a
            bewildered  look, "Is it -- can it be King Charlemagne?"
            "Yes," replied Master Einhard in a low voice, "it could be no other."
          It was indeed the King; though no wonder Rainolf was puzzled, for instead of wearing
            the familiar Frankish dress, he was clad as a Roman noble of the highest rank. A wide
            mantle of pure white wool bordered with royal purple covered him with its many folds and
            was held at one shoulder by a jeweled golden clasp. On his feet were sandals laced with
            golden cords.
          It was a splendid picture; and as the King continued to kneel with bowed head, all eyes
            were fixed upon him, still with that curious look of expectancy. In a moment a hush fell
            everywhere, for Pope Leo and his attendant priests had entered. All wore magnificent
            robes stiff with gold embroidery and precious stones, and after them came choir-boys in
            lace and velvet, swinging clouds of sweet incense from 
            beautifully jeweled censers, and the solemn mass began.
          At a pause in the service, "Master Einhard," whispered Rainolf softly, "what is it? I
            feel as if something great is going to happen." Indeed, this feeling, which had been in
            the air all the morning, seemed to grow stronger with everybody.
          "I do not know," whispered Master Einhard slowly, "but -- I believe -- King Charlemagne
            will leave this church something different --"
          But again the sound of chanting rose and fell; and then, by and by, the last notes, one
            by one, died away, the clouds of fragrant incense dissolved faintly in the quiet air,
            there was a moment of intense silence, and then just as King Charlemagne was about to
            rise from his knees, suddenly Pope Leo stood before him holding in his hands a golden
            crown. With a swift movement he placed this on the King's head, and at  the same instant, as if by magic, thousands of voices rang
            out, "To Charles the Augustus, crowned of God, the great and pacific Emperor, long life
            and victory!" which was the ancient greeting with which the Roman people were accustomed
            to hail their Emperors. Then, led by Pope Leo, everybody sang a hymn asking all the
            saints to bless the new Emperor, his children and his subjects.
          "What -- what does it all mean?" asked Rainolf, when he could get his breath for
            bewilderment.
          "It means," slowly answered Master Einhard, who had been keenly watching everything,
            "that our Frankish King Charlemagne is now also Emperor of the Roman Empire and the
            greatest monarch in all Christendom."
          "But," said Rainolf, still puzzled, "I thought he was the greatest monarch before?"
          "Yes," said Master Einhard, "he was; and what is left of the ancient Roman Empire has
               for years looked to him to defend it from its enemies;
            yet really to wear the crown as Emperor means a glory and power nothing else can quite
            give. You will understand better by and by, lad."
          As to what King,-- no, we forget,-- Emperor Charlemagne himself
            thought about it all, nobody will ever be quite sure. Perhaps in his wisdom he foresaw
            how for centuries after his own time, when the Roman Empire had ceased to be either
            Roman or even an empire, the kings who followed him would still strive to be crowned
            Emperor as he had been and there would be much war and bloodshed because of it. Perhaps
            he dimly guessed something of this, for after the coronation was over, though he
            accepted all its responsibility, nevertheless he declared that he would never have gone
            to Saint Peter's Church that Christmas morning had he known what Pope Leo meant to
            do.


          


          But whether he knew about it beforehand or not, there he was that Christmas Day of the
            year 800 leaving Saint Peter's with the Roman crown glittering on his head. And having
            thus seen our noble King Charlemagne made into an Emperor, our story must end.
          Good-by, Rainolf! Good-by, Aymon, and Malagis and Masters Einhard and Alcuin and all
            the rest! -- And would you really like to know what became of some of them? Well,
            Rainolf's horoscope worked out fairly true. When troubles came to him he met them
            manfully, and always when needed for the Frankish wars he proved a good and loyal
            soldier; but always, too, as Master Leobard had said, there was something else for which
            he cared much more. It was his songs. And as he grew older his voice grew sweeter still,
            and he and Master Einhard together used often to delight the Emperor with their singing.
            Rainolf, by and by, became a famous minnesinger, making 
            up his own beautiful song-stories, and even at last fulfilling his boyish wish, he
            learned to paint and write so well that he made a lovely book all of his own songs.
          Aymon and the other boys all turned out well, too; though none of them made a name for
            himself as did Rainolf.
          Malagis continued to wear the yellow tunic of jester and capered good-humoredly through
            life; though long afterward people declared he had been a great wizard and minnesingers
            told no end of marvelous stories about him.
          Master Einhard served faithfully as scribe as long as Charlemagne lived; and then two
            years later he wrote a life of the Emperor. It is not very long, but is so perfectly
            well done that to this day when people want to know about him first of all they look to
            see what Master Einhard wrote.
          As for the mighty Charlemagne himself, when he died no King or Emperor ever had so  wonderful a burial. He was placed in a splendid tomb in the
            cathedral of Aachen, seated on a marble throne, arrayed in the magnificent royal robes
            he had scorned to wear during life, his jeweled crown upon his head, his golden scepter
            in his right hand, and spread open across his knees the beautiful painted Bible made at
            Tours and which Master Alcuin had presented to him that famous Christmas Day.
          And then, by and by, the minnesingers began to make up songs about him; and for
            hundreds of years more and more were made up, all of them growing more and more
            wonderful till the song-stories of which Charlemagne is the hero are counted today among
            the most beautiful in the world. And many of these minnesingers tell strange tales. Some
            of them even declare that the great monarch is not dead, but that fairies and wizards
            carried him off to a marvelous cavern in the lofty mountain of Dessenberg, and that
            there he sits sleeping a magical sleep,  his head resting
            on a white marble table and his long white beard flowing to his feet. They say the
            mountain dwarfs guard the cavern, but that some day -- some day -- Charlemagne will
            waken! And, if he does -- Oh, wouldn't you like to be there to see?
        

         THE END



      
    
    
      

      
         Selections from L. C. Page & Company's Books for
          Young People


        THE BLUE BONNET SERIES
        
          Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per volume
          $ 2.00
          
          The seven volumes, boxed as a set
          14.00
        
        
          
            A TEXAS BLUE BONNET By CAROLINE E. JACOBS.
          
          
            
              BLUE BONNET'S RANCH PARTY
              
              By CAROLINE E. JACOBS AND EDYTH ELLERBECK READ.
            
          
          
            
              BLUE BONNET IN BOSTON
              
              By CAROLINE E. JACOBS AND LELA HORN RICHARDS.
            
          
          
            
              BLUE BONNET KEEPS HOUSE
              
              By CAROLINE E. JACOBS AND LELA HORN RICHARDS.
            
          
          
            BLUE BONNET -- DÉBUTANTE By LELA HORN RICHARDS.
          
          
            BLUE BONNET OF THE SEVEN STARS By LELA HORN RICHARDS.
          
          
            BLUE BONNET'S FAMILY By LELA HORN RICHARDS.
          
          
            "Blue Bonnet has the very finest kind of wholesome, honest, lively girlishness and
              cannot but make friends with every one who meets her through these books about
                her."--Chicago Inter-Ocean.
          
          
            "Blue Bonnet and her companions are real girls, the kind that one would like to have
              in one's home."--New York Sun.
          
        

      
      

      

        THE HENRIETTA SERIES By LELA HORN RICHARDS
        
          Each one volume, 12mo, illustrated
          $1.90
        
        
          
            ONLY HENRIETTA
            
            "It is an inspiring story of the unfolding of life for a young girl-a story in which
              there is plenty of action to hold interest and wealth of delicate sympathy and
              understanding that appeals to the hearts of young and old."--Pittsburgh
                Leader.
          
          
            HENRIETTA'S INHERITANCE
            
            "One of the most noteworthy stories for girls issued this season. The life of
              Henrietta is made very real, and there is enough incident in the narrative to balance
              the delightful characterization."--Providence Journal.
          
        
      
      
        STORIES BY I. M. B. OF K.
        
          Each one volume, 12mo, illustrated
          $1.75
        
        
          
            THE YOUNG KNIGHT
            
            The clash of broad-sword on buckler, the twanging of bow-strings and the cracking of
              spears splintered by whirling maces resound through this stirring tale of knightly
              daring-do.
          
          
            THE YOUNG CAVALIERS
            
            "There have been many scores of books written about the Charles Stuarts of England,
              but never a merrier and more pathetic one than 'The Young Cavaliers.'"--Family Herald.
          

          
            THE KING'S MINSTREL
            
            "The interesting situations are numerous, and the spirit of the hero is one of
              courage, devotion and resource."--Columbus Dispatch.
            "It is told with spirit and action."--Buffalo Express.
            "The story will please all those who read it, and will be of particular interest for
              the boys for whom it was intended. It is a tale of devotion to an ideal of service and
              as such will appeal to youth."--Portage Register-Democrat.
            "There is a lofty ideal throughout, some court intrigue, a smattering of the
              decadence of the old church heads, and a readable story."--Middletown
                Press.
          
        
      
      

      
        
          FAMOUS LEADERS SERIES (Con.)
          
            
              Cloth, 12mo, illustrated from specially autographed photographs, per
                vloume $2.00
            
            
              Except as otherwise noted.
            
          
          
            
              By EDWIN WILDMAN
            
          
          
            THE FOUNDERS OF AMERICA (Lives of Great Americans from the
              Revolution to the Monroe Doctrine)
          
          
            THE BUILDERS OF AMERICA (Lives of Great Americans from the
              Monroe Doctrine to the Civil War)
          
          
            
              FAMOUS LEADERS OF CHARACTER (Lives of Great Americans from the
                Civil War to Today
            
          
          
            
              FAMOUS LEADERS OF INDUSTRY.-- First Series
            
          
          
            
              FAMOUS LEADERS OF INDUSTRY.-- Second Series
            
          
          
            
              By TRENTWELL M. WHITE
            
          
          
            
              FAMOUS LEADERS OF INDUSTRY.-- Third Series $2.50
            
            The author includes the foremost figures in the fields of radio, banking, chain
              stores, electrical manufacturing, aeronautics, railroads, automobiles, high finance
              and newspaperdom.
            "These biographies drive home the truth that just as every soldier of Napoleon
              carried a marshal's baton in his knapsack, so every American youngster carries
              potential success under his hat."
            --New York World.
          
          
            By Charles Lee Lewis
              Professor, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis
          
          
            
              FAMOUS AMERICAN NAVAL OFFICERS With a complete index.
            
            "In connection with the life of John Paul Jones, Stephen Decatur, and other famous
              naval officers, he groups the events of the period in which the officer distinguished
              himself, and combines the whole into a colorful and stirring narrative."--Boston Herald.
          
        
      

      

      
        

          STORIES BY EVALEEN STEIN
          
            
              Each one volume, 12mo, illustrated
              $1.65
            
          

          GABRIEL AND THE HOUR BOOK

          A LITTLE SHEPHERD OF PROVENCE

          THE CHRISTMAS PORRINGER

          THE LITTLE COUNT OF NORMANDY

          PEPIN: A Tale of Twelfth Night

          CHILDREN'S STORIES

          THE CIRCUS DWARF STORIES

          WHEN FAIRIES WERE FRIENDLY

          TROUBADOUR TALES
          
            "No works in juvenile fiction contain so many of the elements that stir the hearts of
              children and grown-ups as well as do the stories so admirably told by this
                author."--Louisville Daily Courier.
          
          
            "Evaleen Stein's stories are music in prose-they are like pearls on a chain of
              gold-each word seems exactly the right word in the right place; the stories sing
              themselves out, they are so beautifully expressed."--The Lafayette
                Leader.
          
        
      


      

      

        THE SANDMAN SERIES
        Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per volume $1.75
        
          
            BY WILLIAM J. HOPKINS
          
          
            THE SANDMAN: HIS FARM STORIES. "Mothers and fathers and kind elder sisters who take the
              little ones to bed and rack their brains for stories will find this book a treasure."-
                Cleveland Leader.
          
          
            THE SANDMAN: MORE FARM STORIES. "Children will call for these stories over and over
              again."-- Chicago Evening Post.
          
          
            THE SANDMAN: HIS SHIP STORIES. "Little ones will understand and delight in the stories
              and their parents will read between the lines and recognize the poetic and artistic
              work of the author."-- Indianapolis News.
          
          
            THE SANDMAN: HIS SEA STORIES. "Once upon a time there was a man who knew little
              children and the kind of stories they liked, so he wrote four books of Sandman's
              stories, all about the farm or the sea, and the brig Industry, and this book is one of
              them."-- Canadian Congregationalist.
          
          
            BY JENNY WALLIS
          
          
            THE SANDMAN: HIS SONGS AND RHYMES. "Here is a fine collection of
              poems for mothers and friends to use at the twilight hour. They are not of the
              soporific kind especially. They are wholesome reading when most wide-awake and of such
              a soothing and delicious flavor that they are welcome when the lights are low."--
                Christian Intelligencer.
          
          
            BY HELEN I. CASTELLA
          
          
            THE SANDMAN: HIS FAIRY STORIES. This time the Sandman comes in person, and takes little
              Joyce, who believes in him, to the wonderful land of Nod. There they procure pots and
              pans from the pansy bed, a goose from the gooseberry bush, a chick trom the chickweed,
              corn from the cornflower, and eat on a box from the boxwood hedge. They have almost as
              many adventures as Alice in Wonderland.
          


          



          
            THE SANDMAN SERIES
            
            (CONTINUED)
          
          
            BY HARRY W. FREES
          
          
            THE SANDMAN:
            
            HIS ANIMAL STORIES.
          
          
            THE SANDMAN:
            
            HIS KITTYCAT STORIES.
          
          
            THE SANDMAN:
            
            HIS BUNNY STORIES.
          
          
            THE SANDMAN:
            
            HIS PUPPY STORIES.
            
            "They are written in a style that will appeal most strongly to children, and the
              promise of a Sandman story before retiring will be found an adequate relief to many a
              tired mother. The simplicity of the stories and the fascinating manner in which they
              are written make them an excellent night cap for the youngster who is easily excited
              into wakefulness, for the Sandman stories never frighten the kiddie." --The Pittsburgh Leader.
          
          
            By W. S. PHILLIPS. (EL COMANCHO)
          
          
            THE SANDMAN:
            
            HIS INDIAN STORIES.
            
            The Indian tales for this Celebrated Series of Children's Bedtime Stories have been
              written by a man who has Indian blood, who spent years of his life among the Redmen,
              in one of the tribes of which he is an honored member, and who is an expert
              interpreter of the Indian viewpoint and a practised authority on Indians as well as a
              master teller of tales.
          
          
            By MAE V. LEBERT
          
          
            THE SANDMAN:
            
            HIS JAPANESE STORIES.
            
            "Miss LeBert creditably carries on the series that PAGE has made
              famous over a period of years. She has grasped finely the spirit of Japan and its
              legends, and in turn sets down on paper delicate, fragile bits of beauty. A charming
              book for any boy or girl." --Ohio State Journal.
          
        
      


    
  

