
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Scott, Leroy, 1875-1929.. Partners of the night. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1857

	 ----FULL TEXT----
        

		


			


			

			
				
					

						"Stop, Miss Regan! . . . there's an officer outside the apartment door, with
							orders to arrest anyone who tries to leave"

					
				
			

			

			

				

					PARTNERS OF THE NIGHT

				

				
					By LEROY SCOTT
					AUTHOR OF "Counsel for the Defence," "Mary Regan," Etc. 

				

				 With Eight Illustrations By DALTON STEVENS
				

				
					
						A. L. BURT COMPANY
						Publishers
					
					New York
					Published by arrangement with THE CENTURY CO.
				

			

			

			


				Copyright, 1916, by LEROY Scott


				

				Copyright, 1915, 1916, by THE METROPOLITAN MAGAZINE COMPANY
				

				


				Published, October, 1916


			


			

			

				TO CARL HOVEY

			


			


			



			

				CONTENTS

				

					
						CHAPTER
						PAGE
					
					
						 THE FRAME-UP
						3
						
					
					
						 A HOLIDAY ENFORCED
						52
						
					
					
						 THE HONOR OF SLANT-FACE REGAN
						107
						
					
					
						 THE THIRD WATCHMAN
						158
						
					
					
						 THE GORDON MASTERPIECES
						199
						
					
					
						 THE PRIDE OF MARY REGAN
						251
						
					
					
						 WITH THE GOODS ON
						304
						
					

				

			

			

			

			

				LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

				

					PAGE
					"Stop, Miss Regan! . . . There's an officer outside the apartment door, with
						orders to arrest anyone who tries to leave" Frontispiece

					Suddenly Gordon, the two wheelmen and the young man in evening clothes rushed
						upon him 37

					She gave him a straight, cold look of triumph. Plainly she exulted in his public
						humiliation . 45

					Her face was tense with wonderment, but the dark eyes were unflinchingly hard
							71

					'you're all wrong, Jim! Mr. Clifford has tried to M, be your friend" 149

					"Hawkins," Clifford said sharply, "I guess you'll be stopping work on that
						vault right now" 195

					Clifford could not find words for his wrathful revulsion 293

					Bradley received no terrific blow as he had expected. Merely the black cigar had
						been snatched from his mouth 345

				

			

			

			

		

		

			
				Partners of the Night

				PARTNERS OF THE NIGHT

				

				

				PARTNERS OF THE NIGHT

				

					I

					THE FRAME-UP

					

						I

						FIRST Deputy Police Commissioner Bradley, head of the Detective
							Bureau, was snapping directions across his fiat-topped desk to Lieutenant Detective
							Clifford in speech as terse and factual as a telegram. Until a year before Bradley had
							been an Inspector, the highest grade to which a policeman can rise from the ranks. But
							so effective had he been, and so promising for larger responsibilities, that the
							preceding Commissioner of Police had Secured for him a year's leave of absence and had
							appointed him to the position of First Deputy Commissioner, who in the New York
							Department must be a private citizen, and who is Chief of the Detective Bureau; and
							the present Commissioner had renewed his leave of absence and had continued him in
							this powerful position.

						

						The famous "Chief" was short, but of a formidable breadth of shoulders, and had a
							dark clenched-fist variety of face pointed with small brilliant eyes. "Clean-up"
							Bradley he had been christened in his patrolman days in tribute to his courage and
							physical prowess; and "Clean-up" Bradley the news, papers still called him because of
							his spectacular sweeping from the streets of thugs and criminals. He had made live
							copy for the newspaper boys; he had grown to be the hero of almost every front-page
							criminal romance of the yellow papers, and New York, viewing him as he cleverly and
							masterfully conducted himself in these exciting histories, had come to rank him as the
							greatest chief of detectives that had ever protected its life and purse.
						Bradley and Clifford sat regarding each other without warmth, but with official
							courtesy. There were rumors about Headquarters that the spectacular chief and his
							young subordinate with the brilliant record--Lieutenant Clifford had fallen down badly
							in the last year, however--were hitting it off none too pleasantly together. But
							whatever they felt, both men were masters of the high art of masking sentiment and
							intention.
						"that's all we know about the case," Commissioner Bradley chopped out in conclusion.
							"But it ought to be easy for you to grab the dip that collared Mrs. Fletcher's
							money."

						

						"I'll do what I can," said Clifford.
						"Remember, she's a society headliner. Gets all kinds of space in the papers. She's
							put up an awful holler here, and we've gotta make good with the new administration.
							Well, so-long."
						"So-long, Chief."
						Clifford, sea-bronzed, and looking much more a forceful young man of affairs than a
							police official, passed out into the corridor. Instantly several friends in plain
							clothes were upon him, asking when he had got back, and whether it had been raining in
							Lun'on, old chappie, doncherknow, and whether half a dozen husky New York coppers
							couldn't stop that little free-for-all over there-- this was in the early days of the
							Great War-- speaking a cockney dialect acquired in dead-head beats at variety
							theaters. During this ponderous facetiousness an erect gray-clad man, with face of
							Scotch-Irish leanness and immobility, came down the corridor and bowed slightly as he
							passed the detectives. All saluted, except Clifford.
						"who's he, Captain?" Clifford asked in a whisper from Captain Brown, with whom he had
							drawn to one side.
						"Well, you certainly have been away!" exclaimed the gray-haired Brown. "that's the
							new Commish."
						"What, is that Commissioner Thorne!"

						

						Clifford, with quickened but concealed excitement, watched the head of the police
							department go down the granite steps of Headquarters and out into his waiting car.
							From the moment he had heard, while in Vienna, that a new Commissioner had taken
							office, he had pinned a doubting hope on Thorne. He had wondered if the new
							Commissioner was the sort who would help him in the vague, daring but determined
							enterprise he had been feverishly and secretly considering. No man lived for whose
							friendship and backing he was more eager. But his experience on the force had taught
							him to be cautious; cautious even of police offcials. He would not, dared not, trust
							Thorne until he knew the fiber of the man.
						"what's the Commissioner like, Captain Brown?" he inquired.
						"Search me," said Brown. "All the boys are up in the air about him. He may be a
							two-spot, or he may be the whole deck with both sleeves full o' trumps. But he ain't
							showed nothing yet. He leans a lot on Bradley." Captain Brown dropped his voice and
							gave a slow wink. "Bradley is still the big noise in the Department, and them that's
							wise is going to string along with him. You get me?"
						Clifford nodded and went down the broad stairway into Lafayette Street. His watch
							showed  quarter past one. He was already late for his
							lunch engagement with Stanley Tarleton, so after his six months' trailing over Europe
							at the city's expense he permitted himself the luxury of a taxicab at his own. As he
							thrummed toward the Astor, those daring thoughts and plans subsided that had possessed
							him while he had sat with Bradley and while he had gazed questioningly after
							Commissioner Thorne. He wondered, with a quickening of all his nerves, if he was about
							to meet that friendly, haughty, wittily loquacious, reticent young woman whose
							acquaintance he had made upon the Mauretania. For after having been
							tantalizingly evasive concerning her intended whereabouts, yesterday at the very
							moment of parting at the dock Miss Regan had smilingly tossed to him the information
							that she would be stopping at the Astor.

					

					

						II

						Seven years before, when big Bob Clifford had announced that he had joined the force,
							his Yale friends had come near gasping themselves into individual and collective
							spasms. Stanley Tarleton had expressed the general consternation:
						"Good God, Bob, who ever heard of a college man, and a Yale man at that, becoming an
							ordinary cop!" he had exploded. "You're a bull-necked, 
							dough-brained idiot! Look here--what's the matter with business, or the
							professions?"
						The ex-guard had smiled his humorously obstinate smile at Tarleton, who had graduated
							from the law school in Clifford's sophomore year.
						"Nothing's the matter, nothing at all--except everything, as far as I'm concerned. I
							don't care for business. As for the professions, where the devil will yours truly dig
							up the money to keep himself in soup, collars and shoe-polish while he's getting a
							start? Just remember that I am the king of finance who collected the unwilling dollars
							that saw me through Yale."
						"What's that got to do with it? You know there are a hundred men who'd be as proud as
							brass buttons to stake the man who won last year's Harvard game!"
						"And after they had staked me--what then?" Clifford had glanced about Tarleton's
							perfectly appointed office. "it's over two years since you started in at law. On the
							level now, are you paying expenses?"
						"No," the other had confessed.
						"And neither would I. No, I don't want any man to stake me. I've two feet of my
							own--large feet--and I'm going to stand on them."
						"But, man--there's no money in a police career!"

						

						"Perhaps not," Clifford had cheerfully agreed. "But you're not clearing expenses. The
							average lawyer or doctor in this country makes less than a thousand a year. I'm
							starting out on eight hundred and get a neat little raise every year."
						"Oh, the present may not be so bad," the exasperated Tarleton had conceded. "But what
							about the future?"
						"Big!"
						"Big?" had scoffed the lawyer.
						"Yes, sir, big!" Clifford had flamed with sudden energy. "All you educated chaps make
							a rush for the soft-handed jobs--with the result that the soft-palm market is
							overstocked, that only a few are making a decent living, and even fewer have any
							chance to come out of the ruck and show at the front. How many of the high-brow lads
							have ever thought of the police department?--starting in at the bottom, I mean? Not
							one. I tell you," rising in his glowing earnestness, "the biggest chance in the world
							for a man with brains, educated brains, is on the force! I don't mean chance to make
							big money. I mean a chance to do worth-while work and make a name for himself!"
						Tarleton had stared at his enthusiastic, determined face. "Well," he had growled, "go
							do as you damned please."

						

						Clifford had smiled again. "that's exactly what I've already done."

					

					

						III

						Clifford and Tarleton sat at a corner table in the Astor, their first greetings
							over.
						"On something new that's interesting, Bob?" inquired Tarleton.
						"Bradley assigned me another 'lemon.'" Clifford had dropped the mask of composure he
							had worn at Headquarters, and his tone was bitter. "Mrs. Stuyvesant Fletcher runs into
							town from Newport last night, carrying a wrist-bag; in the bag is a purse containing
							close on a thousand in bills. When she gets home she has the bag all right, but in it
							no purse. This morning she gets the purse in the mail--empty."
						"What're you going to do?"
						"Do? What can I do?" demanded Clifford. "While the Chief was telling me of the case,
							I knew who'd turned the trick. At least I was almost certain--Slant-Face Regan, the
							smoothest pickpocket lifting leathers in New York. that's the way Slant-Face
							works."
						"If you know, why don't you go out and arrest him?"
						"What good 'll it do to arrest him? He got money, and money can't be identified
							unless it's  marked, which this wasn't. Slant-Face would
							be turned out of court, and that would be just another public fall-down for Bob
							Clifford. No, the Chief knew it was a lemon when he handed it to me. He hasn't
							assigned me a live case in a year. Stanley, I haven't told you yet," Clifford went on
							in mounting exasperation, "but that Eddie Graney case that's kept me away six months,
							is the worst lemon in the crate. I hunt Graney all over Europe-- the very day England
							enters the war I find him sick in a London hospital--he dies on me there ten days
							ago--and all I lead back in triumph to Headquarters is a death certificate. The Chief
							gave me the assignment just to get me out of the way."
						Tarleton opened his eyes wide. "To get you out of the way? Why, I thought everybody
							considered you the brainiest maxi in the department!"
						"If I am, that's exactly why Bradley wants me where my brains will do no harm."
						"I wish to God, Bob, you'd taken my advice and published your book about the police
							under your own name!"
						"Yes," sneered Clifford, "and have got every man on the force down on me!"
						Tarleton eyed him searchingly. "you're wearing an awful grouch, Bob. There's not a
							woman mixed in it, is there?"

						

						"No," very shortly; but under his sea-tan Clifford flushed ever so slightly.
						Tarleton was silent a moment; then he asked abruptly: " Met Commissioner Thorne
							yet?"
						"No. Have barely seen him. The boys at Headquarters seem to think he's a dead
							one."
						"Do they? Some men find out where they're at and what they've got to do before they
							begin to act. here's a tip, Bob. Thorne will bear watching." Another moment of
							silence. "By the way, I gave him a copy of your book and told him who wrote it."
						"Why the devil did you do that?" cried Clifford in dismay. Then sharply: "You know
							the Commissioner?"
						"A little," Tarleton said guardedly.
						"Well," doggedly, "whatever he thinks, what I said is straight. The police department
							can be, and should be, and some day is going to be, one of the most valuable and
							humane of our institutions. What we've got to do is--"
						"Throw on the brakes, old man. I've read it all in your book." Tarleton smiled. "As I
							was saying, Bob, you're awfully sore to-day for a great detective."
						"Great detective!" exploded Clifford. "Close your trap, Stanley, or I'll be handing
							you one. Great detective! If you want to give up a dollar  and a quarter you'll find him in a book. But elsewhere, not on your life!"
						Tarleton merely smiled good-humoredly.
						"Great detectives, in novels, or down at Headquarters, they're all bunk!" Clifford
							fumed on. "Take Bradley. If you believe what you read, Bradley's one whale of a
							detective. These miraculous cases of detection aren't miracles when you're behind the
							scenes. Most of the tricks are turned by 'stools'--crooks who give away their pals.
							Then the case is dressed up for the papers, showing the detective a super-bloodhound,
							super-scientist, super-toxicologist, super-psychologist and every other super-ologist
							thing that's happened along since Adam got cramps eating green apples. Of course the
							newspaper boys are wise, but they stand for it, grinning inside themselves, for those
							are the sort of fairy tales the dear public wants. God, but it gives me a mortal
							pain!"
						"If it's so bad as that, why don't you quit the force?"
						"Quit? Not on your life!"
						"Well, go ahead then and get it off your chest."
						"There's plenty to get off, all right!" Clifford, tight-mouthed by habit about his
							work, hesitated. But his long-gathering wrath and purpose were grown too strong for
							his habitual reticence. His voice lowered. "Let me tell you something, Stanley  --and it's something I've been keeping strictly under my
							hat, waiting my time. The professional crooks could be almost cleaned out of New York
							if it wasn't for just one thing."
						"And that?"
						"The police."
						"The police?"
						"Yes, the police. They protect the crooks, get a share of the loot--are silent
							partners. They talk about cleaning up the city, but they don't want to clean up the
							city."
						"Oh, see here, Bob!" protested Tarleton.
						"I'm not talking of the rank and file," Clifford hastened to explain. "Most of the
							men are a clean, fine, honest bunch. I'm talking of a few-- of a hidden, rotten,
							powerful few in the very center of' things." He glanced about cautiously, leaned
							nearer and lowered his voice to a mere breath. "here's where I come to my great point.
							Want to know who's the biggest crook in New York?"
						"Who?"
						"His name is Bradley, and he happens to be Chief of Detectives."
						Tarleton stared. Clifford's face had tightened; his narrowed eyes gleamed.
						"Bradley's the crook I'm after. And, by God, bradley's the crook I'm going to
							get!"

						

						"Bradley--the detective of all detectives!" breathed Tarleton. He gazed at the young
							man, quivering with grim determination, who had declared war on the spectacular public
							hero. "Does --does Bradley know?"
						"can't say. But he knows I'm not his sort. that's why he's fed me lemons for a
							year."
						"But, man alive--how does he work it?"
						"I've only begun to find out, and yet it would take me a day to tell you what I know.
							he's working a dozen lines. Here's just one sample of how--"
						Clifford's words snapped off; he stared beyond Stanley for a moment. "When did he
							come in?" he exclaimed in a quick whisper. "I say, Stanley, act as though nothing had
							happened, and in a Couple of minutes casually look around and notice at the third
							table directly behind you the man in gray-green tweed, with a gray-streaked Vandyke
							beard. You only get his profile."
						Presently Tarleton swept the room, then turned back. "Well? "
						"that's Joseph Russell."
						"Which leaves me knowing as much as I did before."
						"Naturally, since you are a civil lawyer. Mr. Joseph Russell, as far as culture and
							manners are concerned, would do honor to us as ambassador to  London or Berlin. Incidentally he is the real head of a swindling,
							wire-tapping and gambling syndicate. And he's as safe as though he were incorporated
							under the laws of New York."
						"How 's that?"
						"Russell is the brains; he doesn't participate personally unless it's a big coup. But
							the chief point is that he is protected. He pays Bradley a regular retainer of $5,000
							a month, and twenty-five per cent upon all big jobs he pulls off."
						"How did you learn all this? "
						"Not through any of your popular-fiction detective magic. One of my 'stools'--a new
							one--used to be in Russell's gang. He got sore at Russell and blew the thing off to me
							in a long session last night."
						"If you can prove it, my God, what a sensation!" murmured Tarleton.
						"It 'll shake the city, the whole country-- there's no doubt about that," said
							Clifford, seriously.
						"But can you get the proof?"
						"I've got to get it!"
						"How do Russell and Bradley manage, their affairs?"
						"Exactly how I don't know. That's one of the big things I'm going to find out.
							Bradley doesn't expect me to get anything on this Mrs. Fletcher  thousand-dollar case, and I shan't try; but while I'm supposed to be
							running down the dip, I'm going to be looking into the private performances of Mr.
							Bradley."
						"Luck to you, Bob. But if Bradley's half as clever as people say, look out."
						"Oh, he's clever all right--none cleverer," Clifford conceded. "By the by," he added
							after a long puff at his cigar," that man with Russell, it's ten to one that Russell
							is stringing him along on some foxy scheme. Blackmore is his name; Colorado
							millionaire, and very easy; came over on the Mauretania with me, and
							was trimmed for twenty thousand by card sharps."
						From time to time, as he had spoken, Clifford's eyes had slipped toward the curtained
							entrance from the lobby. He now stole another glance. He gave an inward start. In the
							doorway had appeared his ship acquaintance, Miss Regan, all in white, graceful,
							self-possessed. Would she see him?
						But she gave no glance about the restaurant. Without hesitating, or waiting for the
							grand-ducal guidance of the headwaiter, she made the straight way among the tables of
							one who has a prearranged objective point. Where was she going, Clifford asked
							himself. Then his heart seemed to stop and turn cold. For with a little nod at the
							two, she  had taken a seat at the table between Joseph
							Russell and the Colorado millionaire.
						What in God's name was she doing with that pair? He recalled now, with sickening
							presentiment, how on shipboard she had adroitly evaded all his skilful attempts to
							draw her into talk about herself. Who was she, really?
						Her chair faced him. Palpitantly he waited for her to glance in his direction. In a
							few moments she did so, and her dark face lighted with a smile. She spoke to Russell,
							who looked around, rose, and strode toward Clifford's table.
						"How are you, Bob?" he said cordially, gripping Clifford's hand.
						"Hello, Joe."
						"I didn't know you were back. If you can excuse yourself for a minute, a couple of
							your friends would like to speak to you."
						Leaving Tarleton bewildered by this easy familiarity between a crime-prince and a
							police official, Clifford was the next moment at Russell's table. Miss Regan's face
							showed a more frank liking than at any time since their friendship had been begun six
							days before by his seizing her gust-captured steamer rug.
						"I had no idea you were a friend of Uncle Joe," she exclaimed. " You told me so
							little about yourself, you know."

						

						"I followed your policy," he stammered. The millionaire he nodded to and forgot.
						"It isn't wise to be too free about oneself with chance friends, is it?" His knowing
							her uncle seemed instantly to admit him within the reserve he had striven five
							intimate sea days to penetrate. "Won 't you join us for a little while?"
						He sat down.
						"I suppose you are already on a new case?" remarked Joe Russell.
						"A new case?" Miss Regan lifted her eyebrows. "So then--you are a doctor?"
						"A doctor!" Joe Russell laughed. "Mr. Clifford is Lieutenant Detective Clifford, and
							he's the cleverest detective in these parts." There was very genuine admiration in Mr.
							Russell's voice.
						"A detective!" Miss Regan's dark face, so openly cordial the moment before, became
							instantly cold and steely hard. Her black eyes held steadily upon him in an amazing
							hauteur and contempt. "So you are a detective." She turned away, reaching calmly for
							her soup spoon. "Lieutenant Detective Clifford," she remarked icily, "I believe your
							friend is waiting for you."
						Clifford stumbled away, his mind flashing questions. What had been her past? What was
							she doing now? What was her active relationship to that magnate of protected crime,
							Joseph Russell?  Was it her role to cross and recross on
							luxurious liners, bait to lure rich dupes into the net of Joe Russell?
						As he let himself down into the. chair, Tarleton eyed him in searching amazement.
							"So, after all, there is a woman!"
						"Only a steamer acquaintance," Clifford tried to say calmly.

					

					

						IV

						"I'm going to watch that man Blackmore," Clifford remarked a little later. "he's in
							for a good trimming at the hands of Russell. I don't care much how hard Russell soaks
							him; his fortune's in mining property, and over three hundred men were killed in his
							mines last year, and it's been champagne and Europe for his. But his money may lead
							from Joe Russell to Bradley."
						"Ah," breathed Tarleton, " and give you the evidence you want?"
						Clifford nodded. "By the by, Tarleton, one or two of Bradley's men are always
							watching Russell when he has anything on, and they know me and my men. I ought to have
							some one to help me that they don't know. If you're not busy, could you lend me a hand
							during the next few days. Nothing very dirty--and I'll phone you when I want you."
						head>"These are dull times with me. I'm as much  a boob
							as the incomparable Dr. Watson, but I'm on."
						For three days Clifford, keeping himself unseen, tailed Blackmore and
							Russell--frequently Miss Regan was with them--about the more showy hotels and
							restaurants of New York, where Russell entertained the Western millionaire with the
							select lavishness of the rich New Yorker who knows exactly where to find the best. On
							the third day Russell and Blackmore made the acquaintance of four plausible men,
							ostensibly strangers to Russell. Clifford had hourly been expecting confederates of
							Russell to come upon the stage. To him his part of the game was wearisomely old,
							though daily that game entrapped its scores of big and little victims.
						Toward three in the afternoon of the fifth day he tailed the six men through the rain
							to an old brownstone house in the West Forties. Ten minutes later he and Tarleton,
							having arrived in a taxicab, and having gone up the steps shielded by raised
							umbrellas, and having paid a week's rent in advance, were the occupants of a front
							room in a furnished-room house directly across the way.
						"See that man in a black suit," said Clifford, the man walking up and down the
							street?"
						"Yes. Who is he?"
						"Harrigan, one of Bradley's men. Perhaps he's planted here to collect Bradley's
							percentage when  the trick is pulled. But there 'll be
							nothing doing to-day. they'll let Blackmore win, so that he'll plunge to-morrow."
						Sure enough, shortly after five, Blackmore came out with Russell, both smiling with
							the good humor of chance's favorites. During the following twenty-four hours neither
							Clifford nor Tarleton left the house. The next afternoon Blackmore with the four men,
							Russell this time not with them, again entered the brownstone residence.
						"To-day Blackmore will probably get his trimming," said Clifford.
						At five Clifford and Tarleton saw Blackmore come out alone and go down the steps. His
							face was dour. At the foot of the steps they saw Officer Harrigan stop him, draw back
							his black coat and flash his shield, and converse with Blackmore for several minutes.
							Then Harrigan went up the steps of the brownstone house with an air of
							determination.
						"Come on!" said Clifford, and the two men hurried from the house.
						At the corner, as though the meeting were entirely casual, Clifford intercepted his
							steamer acquaintance. "By the by, Mr. Blackmore," he remarked, when the greetings were
							over,"I've noticed some pretty shady characters playing with you during the last day
							or two, and I just saw Officer  Harrigan speaking to you.
							Drop any money?"
						"Fifty thousand."
						"Pool room?"
						"Yes. On the Louisville races."
						"What did Harrigan say?"
						"That I'd been trimmed by a bunch of wiretappers. He said he was going into the house
							to try to get my money back, and advised me to go straight down to Headquarters and
							report to his chief, Mr. Bradley."
						"Better hurry if you want to catch him. Only don't mention that you met me. I'm
							supposed to be on another case and it'd put me in bad for the Chief to know I was
							here. So long."
						Clifford moved to a private looking closed car standing at the curb. The nod he gave
							the chauffeur showed that it had been standing there with a purpose.
						"Have a lot of motor trouble, Jack. Stall, except when I tell you to go. Get me?"
						The chauffeur nodded, and the two slipped into the car. The chauffeur made show of
							having difficulty in starting his engine--the while Clifford kept his eyes upon the
							door of the brownstone front.
						"What will Bradley do when Mr. Blackmore makes complaint?" inquired Tarleton.
						"he'll send men down to raid the place. But  within half
							an hour the gang will have the blackboards, telephones and telegraph instruments out
							of there; the wires, you know, just go into the wall and end there. Bradley's men will
							find an empty room. Harrigan will report that he was thrown out by the bunch, who all
							escaped. There 'll be no arrests and Blackmore will never see a cent of his fifty
							thousand."
						Harrigan came out of the house they watched. "Follow that man in black," Clifford
							called sharply to the chauffeur.
						The motor moved lamely toward Broadway. Here Harrigan caught a southbound car, and
							the automobile deftly followed it. At Fourteenth Street Harrigan left the car, walked
							eastward through the heterogeneous crowd and turned into a saloon.
						"Go in after him, Tarleton; he knows me," breathed Clifford. "Don't appear to notice
							him, but see everything that he'does."
						Tarleton got out. The automobile ran into Irving Place, where the chauffeur had to
							attend to its refractory engine, and Clifford screened himself by opening to its
							widest an evening paper and engrossing himself in the financial news. Thirty minutes
							later Tarleton was back in the car.
						"Well?"
						"Harrigan bought a couple of whiskies, talked  with the
							barkeeper about the baseball scores which were coming in over the ticker, then
							carelessly pushed a sealed Manila envelope across to the barkeeper, saying, 'Just keep
							that for me, Bill, will you, till I ask you for it?' The barkeeper took the envelope,
							nodded and tossed it into the cash drawer."
						"Twelve or thirteen thousand in that envelope, and nobody ever guessed it," commented
							Clifford. "Clever, doing such a thing before a crowd. What next?
						"Harrigan went into a private booth in the saloon, telephoned, then went out and
							started west through Fourteenth Street."
						"He telephoned to some one that the money was at the saloon. His job 's done."
							Clifford stepped from the car, nodding a dismissal to the chauffeur. "Come on. We want
							to follow that envelope. You go back into the saloon and hang around and watch the
							barkeeper's cash drawer. Keep looking at the ticker; get your dinner at the saloon's
							grill. there's always a bunch of well-dressed sports in there, and you'll not be
							noticed."
						Clifford himself went up into a little restaurant on the stoop floor of a house on
							the north side of the street. He commanded an elaborate, every-dish-cooked-to-order
							dinner, that would excuse his remaining there for two or three hours,  and from his table at the curtained window he kept his
							eyes upon the saloon across the way. Who Would be the man? Bradley himself?
						He had not the optimism of his earlier days in the service, but he exultantly felt
							that he was closing in upon Bradley. His way was not yet clear, but perhaps within a
							few hours, or a day, he might have the goods on Bradley, and the great Bradley might
							officially be no more! And then the cleanout the rebuilding!
						He wished he knew what manner of man Commissioner Thorne was. And while he waited in
							tense expectancy, his mind flashed again and again to that beautiful, disdainful,
							enigmatic Mary Regan. Just what was she?
						Night came elsewhere, but night never comes in that part of Fourteenth Street. The
							million lights of saloons, picture shows, museums of manufactured freaks, gave to the
							street a hectic imitation day, through which girls with cold prospecting eyes, and
							cadets, and gangsters, and gunmen, and flashy sports and honest working folk pursued
							variously their pleasure or their business.
						Suddenly Clifford's frame tensed. Into the saloon had sauntered a gray-haired man in
							a straw hat--Captain Brown, who but a few days since had advised him to stick close to
							Bradley. Was Captain Brown in it? He was not conscious of  thought or purpose, but his whole being gave a sudden leap as he recalled that
							night almost two years back when old Captain Brown had begged him for mercy.
						Presently Tarleton emerged from the saloon and Clifford hurried from the little
							restaurant to meet him. Tarleton reported that the yellow envelope had been
							unobtrusively slipped to a gray-haired man in a straw hat.
						Almost at once Captain Brown came out. The two shadowed him.
						"I wonder where that envelope will go next," said Clifford.
						It went to Captain Brown's house up in the Bronx. There it remained throughout the
							night, for Clifford, who watched the house alone, saw no one else enter and no one
							come out. The next morning Captain Brown, fresh shaven, and in citizen's clothes, went
							down into the financial district. Clifford tailed him from bank to bank. He glimpsed
							enough in one bank to inform him of what Brown was doing in all--changing the bills
							that had come as tribute from the fake pool-room into fresh bills of different
							denomination. Yet another precaution to cover up the trail; the identity of the money
							was being lost.
						All day Clifford tailed Brown, but the old Captain did not go near Bradley. That
							night, however,  the Captain openly called at Bradley's
							house in West Eighty-second Street. At half past nine he came out.
						"Well, Bradley has got his rake-off now," Clifford whispered to Tarleton, who had
							joined him, "and has got it safe."
						"Safe? You mean you've done all this for nothing?"
						"Not for nothing. I've learned just how the money is handled, and who are the men
							that handle it. At least some of the men. And that's a lot to know. There's a big
							trick to turn yet before we get Bradley--but I think we've got him! Come on, Brown's
							the man for us."
						They shadowed the Captain to the subway and saw him go down the stairway to the
							uptown trains.
						"He's going home; I was certain he would," said Clifford. "we'll take a taxi and
							perhaps beat him to his house."
						"What'll you do there?" asked Tarleton as they were rolling northward.
						"I'll tell you after I see whether it works. But this much I'll tell you now. I've
							got Brown right where I want him, and, what's more, Brown knows I've got him."
							Clifford could not keep a note of excited triumph from his voice. "Two years ago I
							caught Brown running a gambling-joint through  a dummy
							proprietor; caught him so tight that he didn't try to deny a thing. He begged me not
							to show him up. Said he'd less than three more years to serve in order to be able to
							retire with a captain's pension--said it was his first offense and he'd never do it
							again--spoke of the disgrace--his wife. Well, I decided to be easy with the old man;
							the temptations in the department certainly are hell. But I can revive the affair; I
							can go on the stand and destroy Brown. that's my lever."
						At ten o'clock, from around a corner a block away, the two saw Brown let himself into
							his house with a latch-key. Clifford allowed several minutes to pass; then "Wait
							around for me, Stanley," he said, and walked up to Brown's house and rang the bell.
							Tarleton saw the white-haired Brown himself, in his shirt-sleeves, open the door, give
							a start, then put a hand on Clifford's shoulder in hearty fashion and draw him in.
						It was midnight when Clifford came out.
						"Well?" Tarleton eagerly demanded.
						"it's all right, I've got it! " Clifford exclaimed exultantly, starting for the
							subway.
						"Great stuff! How did you do it?"
						"It was awful--and it made me sick of myself." Clifford wiped his face. "I got Brown
							together with his wife and put the screws on him and twisted 'em hard. I showed him I
							knew exactly  the part he was playing in Bradley's
							wholesale business of protecting crime. I told him that he had to come across and help
							me smash Bradley, or I'd smash him. He would be dishonorably discharged --be a
							disgraced man--lose his pension--be criminally prosecuted. It was him, or Bradley.
							Finally his wife sided with me and he caved in. he's going to help me."
						"But may he not go back on his word and tell Bradley what you're doing?" inquired
							Stanley.
						"I told him," Clifford answered grimly, "that at the first suspicion I had that he
							was playing me crooked, I'd smash him the next minute. Brown will stick."
						"And Bradley--how are you going to get him?"
						"Brown had already arranged to collect in person two thousand dollars from French
							Jimmie tomorrow night. Jimmie is sore at the way he's being held up; he wants Bradley
							kicked out, even if he himself goes out of business helping to do it. we're to fix it
							so that the money Jimmie hands Brown is marked. Also to-morrow night Brown has an
							appointment to meet Bradley at twelve at the Knickbocker for supper. Brown is going to
							whisper that he changed the money he got from Jimmie at the Night and Day Bank, and
							slip the roll to Bradley under the table. The next minute  I and some of my men will have Bradley, on him two thousand in marked money. And
							that'll be the end of Bradley!"
						Clifford tingled as he spoke; and later, alone in his room, he still tingled. It was
							a great plan. Undoubtedly. But questions of policy thrust themselves into his
							victory-clutching excitement. Should he take Commissioner Thorne into the plan--the
							District Attorney? He paced his room. There was so much police intrigue, so much
							political intrigue, so many unseen but powerful forces ever operating. He was
							uncertain about the District Attorney, uncertain as to what secret political ambitions
							and influences might determine that official's actions. He could not yet trust
							Commissioner Thorne. Either man, for private reasons, might prefer, or feel forced, to
							quash the plan and spare Bradley.
						On the whole, it was safest to go the thing alone. Once Bradley was publicly exposed,
							with the goods on, no one would dare try to save him.

					

					


						V

						It was the next afternoon, and again Clifford sat in Bradley's office. When he had
							called up Bradley, which he was required to do daily, Bradley had asked him to make
							his report in person --and his report of his failure to turn up a clue in  the Fletcher case Clifford had just completed. Bradley,
							his big flat-iron of a jaw set, allowed a moment of silence to pass, the while he
							expressionlessly regarded his subordinate out of his small black eyes.
						"Clifford," he remarked abruptly, "this past year you've made a pretty bum
							record."
						"I'm sorry, Chief. But you know I've had pretty bum assignments."
						Another moment of silence, during which the two sat gazing eye into eye; then in an
							even conversational tone:
						"Clifford, how'd you like to come in out of the rain?"
						Clifford started inwardly. At first he could not answer, but he forced a blank look
							upon his face. "I don't know quite what you mean, Chief."
						Again their gazes held, and neither spoke. Both knew that in those calmly spoken,
							apparently commonplace remarks, a great crisis had come--and gone. Clifford thrilled
							with the sense that Bradley, preferring him as an ally to an enemy, had offered to let
							him in on the inside where lay great power and easy riches. And Bradley, having
							offered alliance, was perfectly aware that it had been refused.
						Bradley slightly lifted his heavy shoulders. "I guess I didn't mean anything in
							particular, Clifford.  But I'm going to give you a live
							case now. You can lay off on that Fletcher thing. Lieutenant Cameron was to have
							handled a raid at Louie Gordon's joint in West Forty-seventh Street tonight, but
							Cameron reports that he's sick. I want you to take charge. Warrants and everything 's
							arranged for the raid. Get Gordon, and if there are any swells there, grab them, too.
							Gordon's been pretty raw, and we've got to throw the fear of God into these gambling
							hells, and we gotta show the public something. So go to it."
						That night at eleven o'clock Clifford was in front of Gordon's. A few minutes before
							two plainclothes men had come out of the house, each having bought fifty dollars'
							worth of chips, bet them, and thereby gained the necessary evidence against the place.
							Clifford detailed two officers to guard against escape through the roof and two to
							watch the fire-escapes. He acted mechanically, cynically; wondering whether Bradley
							had amicably arranged with Gordon to "stand" for the raid--it being about Gordon's
							turn to serve as public object lesson of the police's activity; or whether Gordon had
							been refractory about paying tribute, and this raid's purpose was to whip him into
							line.
						Clifford intended going through with the raid as efficiently as though it were
							strictly on the level, but his mind was all on that affair to take place  at the Knickerbocker at twelve o'clock. Earlier in the
							evening, at French Jimmie's, he himself had marked the money and had witnessed its
							being passed to Captain Brown. There remained only the little completing scene of
							Captain Brown passing the money on to Bradley. Another hour and the mighty Bradley
							would be broken. Clifford trembled with excitement, impatience.
						He gave the signal for the attack. Three men with axes dashed for the basement door;
							he and three others, armed with axes and crowbars, rushed up the stoop. Five minutes
							of furious chopping, and prizing at heavy locks, and the outer door of wood and the
							inner door of steel were burst open, and the raiding party rushed in and spread over
							the house. On the second floor, in a large back room where refreshments were spread
							out upon two sideboards and a table, Clifford found huddled together eight men.
						"See here, Lieutenant Clifford," blustered Louie Gordon, coming forward, "what the
							hell d' yuh mean, breaking into a man's private residence like this?"
						"Don't excite yourself, Louie," Clifford advised. "I've got you for fair. Have a
							warrant for you as keeper and warrants for these two men "--nodding at the
							roulette-wheel operators--"as 'Wheelman No. 1' and 'Wheelman No. 2,' and John Doe  warrants for the rest of you. Boys," turning to his men,
							"McQuade, White and I will stay here with the prisoners; you others carry the stuff
							down to the wagon."
						The four officers departed to strip the house of gambling paraphernalia. Suddenly one
							young man in evening clothes sprang forth from the group of prisoners.
						"For God's sake, Lieutenant," he cried, "don't arrest me! It will kill my
							family!"
						"Why didn't you think of your family before you came here?"
						"Oh, let him off," put in Gordon, drawing nearer with the two wheelmen.
						"Listen," breathed the young nman eagerly, "if you let me go, there 'll be a thousand
							dollars--"
						"Shut up!" snapped Clifford.
						Suddenly Gordon, the two wheelmen and the young man in evening clothes rushed upon
							him. Clifford, caught unaware, was almost borne down. But before McQuade and White
							could come to his rescue, his four assailants, apparently perceiving the futility of
							such violent resentment, had drawn away.
						"There'll be a charge of resisting arrest, as well as gambling, against you men,"
							Clifford grimly announced.
						Presently the four officers detailed to remove the 
							gambling outfit to the wagon, came in and reported their work completed. When Clifford
							turned about to the prisoners, the young man in evening clothes had disappeared. None
							of the officers had seen him go. Clifford himself led a search of the house. The young
							man was not to be found.
						"Come on with the others," Clifford ordered. He was disturbed but little by the
							escape. Anyhow, the inmates of a raided gambling-house were frequently allowed to go;
							and, at the worst, when arraigned in police court, they were let off with
							inconsequential fines.
						Clifford glanced at his watch. It showed twenty minutes of twelve. He had plenty of
							time to make the Knickerbocker.
						"McQuade, you take charge and see things over to the station," he ordered as they
							went downstairs. When he came out into the street Clifford saw behind the police van a
							touring car. A voice called from the automobile:
						"Everything all right, Lieutenant?"
						The voice was Bradley's. Clifford crossed to the car. Beside Bradley in the tonneau
							sat a second man.
						"All right, Chief," answered Clifford, forcing himself to be courteous to the man who
							was already tottering to dishonorable fall.
						"Good. I've been showing the Commissioner 
							

								Suddenly Gordon, the two wheelmen and the young man in evening
									clothes rushed upon him--

							
							
							 around to-night, and as the last thing I thought I'd
							stop here a minute to let him have a look at a first-class raid."
						Clifford now clearly distinguished the lean, inscrutable face of Commissioner Thorne.
							He saluted, and the Commissioner nodded and gave a brief "good-evening."
						At that moment down the stoop of Gordon's house came the two officers Clifford had
							posted on the roof. Between them was the young man in evening clothes, struggling,
							pleading. At sight of Clifford beside the car, he tried to make a break for him.
						"Damn you, so that's how you double-cross me!" he cried wildly.
						"Hustle him into the wagon, boys," ordered Clifford.
						"What's he mean?" queried Bradley.
						"Probably a coke fiend, Chief--gone off his head."
						"What!--are you the Chief?" the young fellow exclaimed eagerly. "I don't care what
							happens to me now, but, Chief, I won't stand for such a double-cross! I gave him a
							thousand to let me off, and now he arrests me just the same!"
						"Take him on," ordered Bradley.
						"But, Chief," insisted the young fellow frantically," I gave him a thousand dollars!
							Ten new  one hundred dollar bills! He put them in his
							inside coat pocket!"
						"That's so, Chief. I saw him put them there," struck up Gordon; and the two wheelmen
							chimed in to the same effect.
						"What about it, Clifford? "
						"It's a lie!"
						"Search him," demanded the young man, "and you'll see!"
						"Of course they're lying," said Bradley. "But it seems to me, Clifford, that the
							quickest way to quiet these people is for you to turn out your pockets."
						For once Clifford lost his usually cool head. "Upon the accusation of arrested
							gamblers? Hardly, Chief!"
						"Just as a matter of form, I think you'd better for your own sake, Clifford. Officers
							McQuade and White, have a look at Lieutenant Clifford's pockets."
						Clifford stiffened and waited with wrathful composure. White slipped a hand inside
							Clifford's coat. It came out with a little packet of bills which he handed to Bradley.
							Clifford gave a gasp.
						Bradley rapidly fingered the money.
						"Ten bills here, Lieutenant--each for a hundred--all new. How about it?"
						The truth began to break upon Clifford. "They  must have
							slipped the money on me when they roughed me."
						"Rough you?" put in Gordon. "Nothing of the sort!"
						"Lieutenant, your objecting to being searched, and then the finding of this money, it
							doesn't look very good," said Bradley. "we'll get at the truth of this right here and
							now. You say you were roughed?"
						"By four of them. Gordon, two of his men, and that young fellow."
						The four made denial in one voice, and in this denial the other gamblers joined
							them.
						"Lieutenant, what officers were with you at the time?"
						"McQuade and White."
						"McQuade and White, did you see those men assault Lieutenant Clifford?"
						"Not while we were there."
						"You infernal li--"
						"Lieutenant! Did either of you officers hear that young man offer a thousand dollars
							to be allowed to go?"
						They had heard him mention money, but did not know what it was about, both men
							replied.
						"Did you see any money passed?"
						The two officers answered that the four men had drawn Clifford to one side, all had
							conversed  in whispers, and they had seen the young man
							slip Clifford something, just what they could not say.
						"It's a damned frame-up!" exploded Clifford.
						"You'll have your chance to tell that to the Trial Commissioner," Bradley retorted
							sharply. "Commissioner Thorne, we seem to be getting at the few men who are giving the
							police department a bad name. McQuade, take charge of things here. Clifford, go home
							and report to me at nine tomorrow."
						Dazed utterly by this swift upturning of his world, Clifford glared at Bradley.
							Scorching accusation trembled in his throat. It was a moment of supreme tenseness,
							while these two men gazed at each other.
						But some force mightier than his wild rage held down Clifford's outburst. Saluting,
							he turned and strode away without a word, sick with that chagrin and wrath which has
							nothing on which to vent itself. Behind it all he now saw Bradley--clearly. Gordon and
							the young man and the other men in Gordon's house and the officers, all had been
							carrying out instructions given by Bradley. And Captain Brown--the old Captain had,
							after all, decided to risk his fortune with Bradley. And Bradley, failing to buy, had
							struck first--and struck swiftly, with unseen hand.

						

						Framed, and framed perfectly!
						He would never hurt Bradley now--nor Captain Brown. In discrediting him Bradley had
							disarmed him, had closed his mouth.
						Next morning Clifford reported and was suspended on charges. On the tenth day
							thereafter he was before the Trial Commissioner, with whom sat Bradley and
							Commissioner Thorne. Besides all the witnesses against him from Louie Gordon's, three
							ex-owners of gambling houses testified to having paid him for protection. Clifford
							denied everything, though he knew denial to be useless. The following morning when he
							reported, as required, to the chief clerk, he learned that the Trial Commissioner had
							found him guilty and had recommended his discharge, and that Commissioner Thorne had
							countersigned the order. Silently Clifford turned over his pocket billy, his pistol
							and his shield.
						In the corridor he saw Bradley coming in his direction. His whole being tensed,
							expecting malignant look or whispered taunt. But Bradley passed him with a calm nod,
							no slightest flicker of his brilliant eyes betraying that Clifford's downfall meant
							anything to him.
						Truly he was a remarkable man. Through Clifford's anger and chagrin there rose up an
							unwilling admiration.

						

					

					

						VI

						Bitter, furious, bewildered as to the future, Clifford entered the Astor that night
							in response to an urgent request that he dine there with Stanley Tarleton. Ahead of
							him he saw Commissioner Thorne with a party, including two women, all in evening
							dress, waiting at the elevators. Evidently the party was going to dine in one of the
							private rooms above.
						As he sat heavily down in the restaurant he saw Miss Regan at another table. She gave
							him a straight cold look of triumph. Plainly she had read the great front-page
							newspaper stories of his discharge, and plainly she exulted in his public
							humiliation.
						He gave back her gaze with a look of grim defiance--though God knew what he was going
							to do!
						"Too bad, old man, about to-day's smash-up," Tarleton said when he came in.
							Throughout the meal, even to Clifford preoccupied with his bitterness, Tarleton seemed
							oddly excited. And when the time for dessert came, Tarleton, who never passed over the
							sweets, stood up.
						"Come up to my room for a smoke, Bob."
						"What's doing, Stanley? "Clifford whispered as they entered the elevator.


						

						

							She gave him a straight, cold look of triumph. Plainly she
								exulted in his public humiliation

						


						

						

						"Just a cigar."
						"But say"--when the elevator door had opened and they had stepped forth--"this isn't
							your floor!"
						Tarleton glanced sharply up and down the corridor. It was empty.
						"Come on!"
						Swiftly he went down the corridor and thrust a key into a door.
						"But, Stanley, this isn't your--"
						"I can't say anything, I don't know anything," Tarleton said rapidly. "In there with
							you, and wait. I'm off to the Winter Garden."
						The door closed and he was gone. Clifford found himself in a sitting-room furnished
							in peacock blue, obviously part of a suite. He sank into a chair and fumblingly
							lighted a cigar. What the dickens was it all about?
						Presently a side door, which he had previously tried and found locked, silently swung
							open, and there was an instant-long dim sound of chattering and china, as though a few
							rooms away a party were dining in another part of the suite. Through the door stepped
							the Commissioner of Police. Clifford, who had sprung up, automatically saluted. The
							next moment he felt his right hand being shaken.
						"Awfully sorry about what happened, Lieutenant," 
							Commissioner Thorne began in a low, rapid voice.
						"But, Chief," stammered Clifford, "it was a frame-up!"
						"That's the way it smelled to me. But the evidence was all dead against you, and I
							had to sign your discharge--or excite suspicion."
						Clifford stared. "I don't understand."
						"That's why I arranged this meeting--to make you understand. But no one besides
							Tarleton must know that we have met, or that we meet again."
						Clifford nodded, bewildered, yet vaguely perceiving. That dinner at the other end of
							the suite--was it merely a cautious device whereby the Commissioner might thus meet
							him, unsuspected?
						Commissioner Thorne was speaking again--crisply; and his awakened gray eyes were
							peering appraisingly right into Clifford.
						"Sit down. As I said, Lieutenant, it's necessary to my purpose for you to understand
							a few things. I know everything's not sweet in Denmark. I suspect a few things about
							Bradley--just what, I'm not saying. But it's not safe to go against Bradley until
							one's sure of one's ground. I'm lying low and watching. Bradley has a tremendous
							influence in the department, and he is immensely popular with the public. he's a great
							man--who's got headed wrong. There would be an uproar if I tried  to remove him before I had a strong and perfect case. I'd be the one to
							lose out. There--does that give you a line on me?"
						Clifford's face had begun to light. "It cerainly does!"
						"I may be taking chances with you in telling you as much as I have," Thorne continued
							in his low, rapid voice, "but the most cautious man must begin to take a risk
							somewhere. I've been lying low and watching you, too. That's an interesting book you
							wrote; cocksure, exuberant, Utopian--but good. I like the point of view you take
							toward criminals, and your idea of what a police force might be. I'm taking this
							chance with you, Lieutenant, because if you're what I'm inclined to think you are,
							you're a man that I and the department can't afford to lose. you're under a cloud, but
							I want to hang on to you if I can."
						"But how?"
						"Until you're cleared, I want you to work for me secretly; no one must ever guess
							that we have any connections. I can take care of your pay out of my contingency fund.
							For that, you know, I do not have to give an account except a strictly private one to
							the comptroller."
						"What do you want me to do?"
						"First of all, keep after Bradley. that's your big job. Second, I want you to look
							out for me. I  suspect Bradley feels that I'm not his
							kind and that he's waiting his chance to force me out. Third, and this may take most
							of your time, I want you to look into several cases that the police have failed to
							solve or have purposely covered up. There you are. What do you say? "
						"Say?" exclaimed Clifford. "I say yes!"
						The Commissioner held out his hand. The two sealed their alliance in a long grip.
						"The next time you get Bradley," Thorne went on, "get him! Again
							I'll say that I may be making a mistake in taking you thus far into my confidence. I
							hope not, and believe not. But it's for you to prove not by making good."
						"Chief--" began Clifford.
						Commissioner Thorne interrupted by standing up. "It isn't safe for me to stay here
							any longer; bradley's having me watched. I'll see that you get the data for your first
							case in a day or two. it's about a young woman Tarleton tells me you've already met--a
							Miss Mary Regan. Luck to you! Good night." And the Commissioner, opening the door
							through which he had entered, stepped through and closed it.
						Two minutes later Clifford stepped from the elevator. Sweeping out from the
							dining-room was Mary Regan. She again gave Clifford her proud, disdainful gaze of
							triumph. He returned it  steadily--wondering,
							throbbing--and passed on into the blazing night of Broadway. He paused, blinked about
							him, and drew a dazed, exultant breath.

					

				


				

				

					A HOLIDAY ENFORCED

					

						I

						CLIFFORD, from his secluded corner of the big roof-restaurant high
							above Broadway, watched without seeming to watch the polished Joe Russell and the
							darkly beautiful Mary Regan, and with them the pale young stranger in the new evening
							clothes of over-smart Broadway design. Russell--it was at once obvious that he was
							host--was pouring ten-dollar champagne into the young man's glass with the manner of a
							fine gentleman which that virtuoso of a swindler never overacted. His own glass, still
							full from the first decanting, had been untouched, and was to remain untouched. Mary
							Regan's glass he replenished from her bottle of imported mineral water. The young man
							sipped the brigand-priced wine with excited eagerness; spoke to his host, then to Mary
							Regan. His words Clifford could not get, but the manner and mood he did. Toward the
							ambassadorial Russell the young man was deferential, 
							vastly flattered. Toward the haughty, but now gracious, Mary Regan his manner showed
							him to be humbly, feverishly infatuated.
						The young man spoke again, and he and Mary Regan rose and joined the perspiring
							gaiety of the dining dancers--over their heads hanging a calciumlike mid-summer moon,
							quite as unreal and theatrical in its seeming as the grape arbors with their great
							bunches of illumined grapes of purple glass, and the rest of the pretentious stage
							setting of this heaven-reaching caf dansant. The young man danced with jerky
							angularity; but Mary Regan, where he had only eager muscularity, moved through the
							figures with rhythm and unconscious confidence which suggested that to her the
							strangest steps would the moment of the first trial be old acquaintances.
						Clifford watched the pair, and behind all other thoughts and feelings were the
							suspense and questioning wonder which had haunted him since he had first met Mary
							Regan on the Mauretania; and his mind went over and over the
							information Commissioner of Police Thorne, at a secret conference five days before,
							had placed in his hands. There had come a courteous note of warning from the Paris
							police regarding Mary Regan. Its substance had been: Name, Mary Regan; American born;
							age, very early twenties; later education received  in a
							religious school near Versailles; for last year suspected of playing part in the
							amazingly clever and successful operations of a group of American swindlers in Paris;
							no direct evidence against her; coming to America; look out.
						That Paris group--Clifford was certain it must be a crack company in' Joe Russell's
							army of soldiers of fortune....
						As he watched the pair, a lesser question perplexed him: Why had Commissioner Thorne
							given him the case of Mary Regan? Was it partly because Stanley Tarleton had surprised
							the secret of his interest in Mary Regan and had told the Commissioner? Was it because
							the Commissioner hoped through her to get at her uncle, Joe Russell, and through Joe
							Russell to get somehow the evidence needed to strike down that crafty, unassailable
							public hero and secret partner of master criminals, Chief of Detectives Bradley? Was
							it merely to gain fuller knowledge of this specimen of a type--if Mary Regan belonged
							to such a type--the clever, beautiful, educated girl who perversely gives herself to a
							life of crime?
						Clifford himself had not yet penetrated the character of Mary Regan. As he followed
							her in the dance, he kept asking himself, what was she, really?--and swayed from one
							conclusion to another. The things that had been suggested against her,  they were true. They had to be true.... No, they were not
							true. They could not possibly be true.
						But as for the young man with whom she danced, he pendulated between no such
							uncertainties. Clifford had him sized up. In a general way, he knew him. The young man
							was patently one of those under-brained sons of Western wealth, whom a large
							allowance, or parental death, sets loose on Broadway every so often; another
							"thousand-dollar-a-day sport," another "millionaire kid." Joe Russell, and the
							lieutenants who had discovered this last "good thing" and deftly steered him into
							Russell's company, would certainly not waste their wits on any lesser game. Behind
							this wastrel prince, commonplace except for his infatuation, Clifford could see
							thousands of dim unresting figures in Kansas City stockyards, thousands of
							sweat-beaded fire-lit faces in the steel mills of Pittsburg. For this hobbledehoy
							Clifford felt a biting contempt--and a bitter sense that what fate had surely awaiting
							him was but an insignificant fraction of what he, and his kind, and his family's kind,
							justly merited.
						What hurt him so about the heart was that Mary Regan should of her own free will
							assume the rle of flame to this wretched moth. She smiled at the youth enchantingly,
							intimately. To Clifford it  seemed that they were at, or
							near, an understanding.
						The dance ended--and other dances; and toward midnight the three filed out among the
							tables, Mary Regan leading the way. Her course to the door led past Clifford. Their
							glances met. Experience with her had taught Clifford better than to give any sign of
							greeting. But their eyes held for a moment--hers contemptuous, and frankly speaking
							her satisfaction at his published disgrace. Then she had gone, the cub millionaire
							behind her.
						But Joe Russell had paused at Clifford's side. "Why, hello, Bob!" he exclaimed in his
							pleasant voice, dropping a cordial hand on Clifford's shoulder. "I hadn't seen you
							here. Say, Bob,"--his voice lowered--"I'm sorry about it--that was a hard jolt, your
							being discharged from the force."
						Clifford was never certain whether this astute crime-general really liked him,
							antagonists though they had often been, or whether his friendliness was a mask from
							behind which Russell could lie in wait for betraying looks and slips of speech.
							Clifford played safe.
						"Well, Joe--I guess I got just what a grafter deserves."
						"You a grafter? My dear boy," smiled the other, "those of us who were born before six
							P. M. to-day know that some one framed you."

						

						"Whatever way it may have been, they got me."
						"They certainly did. What are you going to do?"
						"Thinking of taking up law. May go in later with an old friend."
						"Well, if you do, here's wishing you luck, Bob. Good-night."
						Russell passed out with his easy man-of-the- world air. Clifford followed him,
							hastily but without appearance of haste, and when Russell set off in a taxicab with
							his party, Clifford was trailing him in another. He was fairly certain that the party
							was bound for Russell's flat--for a week before, as he knew, Russell and his niece had
							moved to a furnished apartment up in One Hundredth Street; but he wanted to follow the
							young millionaire from the apartment house to his hotel and there learn his
							identity.
						As the taxi sped up Broadway Clifford wondered what might be Joe Russell's plan for
							"trimming" this unsuspicious Western princelet. A clever plan, undoubtedly; and the
							spoil would run into tall figures. And Bradley--his rake-off for guaranteeing Russell
							against police interference would be a little fortune, too.
						As he thought of Bradley, Clifford's heart jumped as though it had thrown in the high
							speed. Might not this affair on which he was just embarking give  him, in some way as yet unseen, the chance to get the goods on the great
							Chief Bradley? If so, one thing was certain--he would conduct himself with greater
							wariness than in their first encounter.
						From the window of his own taxi Clifford saw the car ahead stop at Russell's
							door--the apartment house stood on a corner--saw the three step out, saw Russell shake
							the young man's hand and then retire a few discreet paces toward the entrance, saw the
							young millionaire speak to Mary Regan, saw her smile into his eager foolish face. Then
							she and her uncle went indoors.
						Clifford expected to see the young man renter the taxi and go whizzing down to one
							of the huge ornate hotels that serve the febrile extravagance of the brighter stretch
							of Broadway. But the young man stood irresolute a moment, staring after Mary Regan;
							then with a gesture he refused the solicitation of the chauffeur and strode rapidly to
							the east. At Columbus Avenue he caught a surface car, and, first surprise for
							Clifford, it was a northbound car and not a car headed southward toward the region of
							reckless spending. At One Hundred and Sixteenth Street he got off, walked one block,
							then let himself into an apartment with a latch-key.
						Clifford dismissed his taxi, and from the opposite side of the street gazed at the
							house. He was  momentarily puzzled. The house, as did the
							block, showed its character by its front: a house where decent careful people of
							limited means could get four rooms for something like twenty-five dollars a month.
						For an hour Clifford watched, but the young man did not reappear. Then, not allowing
							his changing ideas to become conclusions, Clifford went home. At six the next morning
							he was again before the uptown house. At eight the young man came out, the glory of
							his last night's evening clothes replaced by a carefully brushed, ill-fitting
							ready-made suit. He took an elevated train, left it at Rector Street, and walked
							across into the financial district; and, though the hour was not yet nine, and the
							general public were forbidden, he was admitted by a guard in gray uniform into
							fortress-like buildings with bars of heavy steel at all the windows.
						Shortly after nine Clifford entered the building and glanced about the great room of
							marble and glinting brass. Behind a grilled window labeled "Receiving Teller," in a
							black alpaca coat, was the gallant of the night before.
						So then, his young prince of steel or pork, with millions of inheritance to toss
							away, was merely a bank clerk with, perhaps, twenty-five weekly dollars to his
							name.

					

					

						

						II

						"Pardon mne, Mrs. Jerrold,"--it was an hour later and Clifford was in the uptown
							house; the young man's name he had secured from the bank porter--"pardon me, but as an
							investigator for the bonding company which gave bond to the Empire Security Bank for
							your son, it is my duty to make a few inquiries. Please understand that it's a mere
							matter of form; nothing at all for you to be disturbed about. But, of course, you
							appreciate that to safeguard our interests we must keep in touch with the persons
							whose integrity we have guaranteed with our money."
						"Of course--of course," fluttered the little gray-eyed, middle-aged Mrs. Jerrold.
						While he had spoken Clifford had made a swift survey of the combination
							dining-and-sitting-room in which they sat and of the other rooms into which open doors
							gave him glimpses. Scrupulously neat, and everywhere the suggestion of a penny-saving
							economy.
						"I suppose," continued Clifford with the routine manner of his rle--he disliked
							practising even this harmless deception on this obviously adoring and poignantly
							respectable mother--"I suppose that your son has a proper interest in his work?"

						

						"Oh, indeed he has, sir! He applies himself very hard. Why, this last winter he took
							courses in--in--something about banking--at the New York University. In the night
							classes. Oh, Philip is very ambitious. And what's more," she added proudly, "since he
							was sixteen he has entirely supported both himself and me."
						"Excellent!" Clifford made pretense of entering memoranda in his note-book. And then,
							still in his mechanical, census-taker's voice: "Just as determined as ever, I suppose,
							to advance through application?"
						"Well--well--" The worried look which came suddenly into her thin face she vainly
							tried to force back into hiding.
						"Not fallen a victim to the modern dance craze, has he?"
						"He's the best son a mother ever had!" she evaded with quavering loyalty.
						"Of course he is. But better tell me the exact truth," Clifford encouraged. "It will
							help the boy most."
						"Lately--he has been going about more of nights than he used to."
						"And naturally spending more? Particularly on clothes?"
						"Ye-es," she confessed. And having confessed so much, she opened more of her
							troubles. "I've  begged him not to be so extravagant.
							Why, two weeks ago he bought an evening suit--had it made to
							order!--heaven knows how much it must have cost him!" And then swiftly she was
							again maternally protective: "It's just a part of his being a young man. It will soon
							pass."
						"Sure it will. We've all been through that." Clifford snapped his book shut. "I'd
							just keep my eyes on him for a while if I were you. And better not mention my call; it
							might disturb him unnecessarily. Thank you very much. Good-morning."
						Outside, Clifford's mind summarized the situation in swift flashes. Devoted
							mother--model son of the old-fashioned pattern, who might become an honored member of
							society in a small way if untoward influences did not come into conflict with his
							none-too-definite will. Over this neat flat and these nice, commonplace people,
							Clifford infallibly sensed danger, vague but great, and menacingly close at hand.
						Russell's plan in regard to young Jerrold--what was it? Clifford guessed at many; but
							there was never any foretelling what the subtle, fertile-minded Joe Russell would
							do.
						And Clifford tried to think out what might be the part of Mary Regan. He tried to
							conquer, drive out of himself, the personal element; but 
							despite his efforts, whenever he thought of Mary Regan he was sick of heart.
						For four days he shadowed Russell and Jerrold and Mary Regan--and with especial care
							did he watch Jerrold, for that young man he conceived to be the pivot figure of
							whatever scheme was preparing. And during these days he got in touch with Billy
							Dempsey, first-grade detective, also first-grade friend, with a belief in Clifford
							unshaken by his recent disgrace, who was having a vacation and who had elected to
							spend it economically and comfortably in New York. Clifford had no guess what twist
							the next hour might give events. There might be arrests to be made--big arrests--and
							since he had no authority to make them, he preferred Billy Dempsey above all men in
							the department to have this credit. To Dempsey Clifford said nothing more than he
							might need him and would he hold himself in readiness. For Dempsey this was quite
							enough.
						Saturday morning Jerrold went down to the Empire Security Bank in a shirt with a soft
							collar, carrying a suit-case to which was strapped a tennis racket in the ordinary
							canvas cover. To all who glanced at him, and gave him a thought, the inference was
							inescapable: this young man was prepared to rush from desk to country, there to spend
							his Saturday half-holiday and his Sunday.

						

						Shortly before noon Clifford entered the fortress of a building. The usual big
							Saturday crowd of depositors were in line, storing away, as was their custom, every
							bit of their cash over the cracksman-beloved Sunday. Clifford drew near, and while
							Jerrold's head was bent over a complex deposit of checks, drafts, money-orders and
							currency, he peeped into the barred cell of the receiving teller. On the floor, just
							below mountains of bills which had piled in during that morning's rush, lay the
							suit-case and racket, suggestive of a care-free weekend.
						At half past one young Jerrold left the bank and hurried away, Clifford tailing him.
							Thirty minutes later the young man entered the lofty arcade of the Pennsylvania
							Station and became a drop of the great holiday stream of store--and office-loosened
							workers who were making for the pleasure grounds of Long Island. Thus far all tallied
							with the implicit plan of suit-case and racket.
						At the head of the stairway Jerrold stepped forth from the current and addressed one
							of the railroad's special policemen; Clifford judged that he was asking minute
							directions. On the lower level, at one of the ticket windows, Jerrold again asked many
							questions--making himself an unforgettable figure to the irritated press of people
							thus delayed behind him. At length he bought a round- 
							trip ticket and swept into the crowd pushing for the gates to the Long Island
							trains.
						But suddenly, and so deftly that the action was hardly noticeable, he had slipped out
							of the crowd, and the next minute he was on an upper level and was an inconspicuous
							part of the lesser stream that was flowing from the trains. In the great inclined
							driveway that pierces to the center of the station, he stepped swiftly into one of the
							waiting taxicabs and was off.
						A moment later Clifford, in another taxicab, was trailing Jerrold's machine. After a
							run northward the car stopped before an apartment house on One Hundredth Street.
							Clifford, from a safe distance, saw Jerrold, gripping racket and suit-case, hurry into
							the house. He stared across at the building, his every sense quickened to its finest
							edge of perception.
						Somewhere above young Jerrold, with his suit-case, was this moment being received by
							Russell and Mary Regan.

					

					

						III

						Clifford's telephone call brought Dempsey almost immediately. Rapidly he gave Dempsey
							his instructions, chief of which was to watch, yet be unseen; and then, waiting for
							his opportunity, he slipped unnoticed into the house across the way.  A minute later he was ringing the bell of Joe Russell's
							apartment.
						It was Mary Regan herself who opened the door. At sight of him her dark face filled
							with disdain, hostility and quick suspicion, and she tried to close the door upon him.
							That purpose, however, was nullified by the ancient device of a swiftly inserted foot,
							and Clifford pressed into the hall.
						"What do you want?" she demanded.
						"A few words with your uncle."
						"My uncle doesn't want a few words with you!"
						"Perhaps he will when he knows what it's about."
						During this brief interchange Clifford had thought he had heard faint, swift
							movements within. Now from the far end of the apartment Russell's voice called
							out:
						" Who is it, Mary?"
						Mary Regan's voice was a sting of scorn:
						"That Mr. Clifford--who used to be a detective."
						"Bob Clifford! Hello, is that you, Bob? Russell's tone was cordial. "One minute, and
							I'll be out."
						Mary Regan, making no sign, permitted Clifford to go down the hall. An open door gave
							him a glimpse into a bedroom--her bedroom, he instantly surmised--and at the foot of
							the bed was a woven  straw traveling bag and across a
							chair was a woman's traveling coat of pongee silk.
						He had a moment alone in the sitting-room, for Mary Regan did not deign to follow him
							in to give him company. He gave a swift glance around, then stooped over wires that
							ran along the base-board, and snip! snip! he went with a pair of thin-jawed, powerful
							clippers. He had barely time to thrust the clippers and the piece of wire he had cut
							into a pocket when Russell entered.
						"This is certainly a surprise, Bob," said Russell, shaking hands. "How are you?"
						"First rate. Just thought I'd drop in to see you. I'm not butting in on anything or
							anybody, am I?"
						"Not at all. Sit down. Not a soul here but myself and my niece there," turning his
							head toward Mary Regan, who had entered the instant after him and was regarding
							Clifford with scornful, wary eyes.
						"I thought some one might have come to visit you," Clifford said, glancing with
							casual manner at Jerrold's racket and suit-case upon the floor beside him. "But
							perhaps it's the other way round--you were just going to leave?"
						"You guessed it," Russell answered easily. "New York's so hot that Mary and I have
							decided to run down to Atlantic City for over Sunday."

						

						"If we're going to catch the train we planned to take," cut in Mary sharply, "we've
							no time to lose."
						Russell looked at his watch. "That's so. I don't mean to hurry you, Bob, but was
							there anything special you came to see about?"
						"Yes. Something rather special." Clifford drew Jerrold's suit-case toward his knees
							and reached toward its lock with his sharp-jawed, powerful clippers. " I came to see
							what is in Mr. Jerrold's bag."
						"Stop!"
						The word was sharp, but low and controlled. Clifford looked up. Three feet away was
							the barrel of a black automatic pistol.
						"What's up?" demanded Russell. His voice was quiet, and he had not stirred from his
							chair.
						Clifford likewise did not move from his chair, and his voice was likewise quiet.
						"There's a queer game on, Joe, and I'm here to learn what it is."
						Those gray eyes of Joe Russell,behind which a world of craft was masked by an
							habitually open gaze, now gleamed piercingly into Clifford. Then he snapped out, but
							still low:
						"Mary--call Double-X!"
						Mary Regan moved quickly toward the telephone on the table.

						

						"You need not bother," put in Clifford. "The wires are cut."
						"You cut them?"
						"Yes."
						"There's some slack. Mary, twist the ends together!"
						"The ends will not meet," said Clifford, shortly. "I cut out a yard. Here it is"--he
							drew the piece of wire from his pocket--" and here it goes--" and he tossed it through
							the open window.
						Mary Regan moved away from the telephone. Joe Russell's eyes blazed over the
							automatic at Clifford.
						"So," he breathed," you think you have cut us off from outside communication!"
						"I think I have, Joe," and Clifford again thrust his clippers toward the
							suit-case.
						"Touch that lock and I shoot!"
						Clifford looked up." You ought to know, Russell," he said, "that I would not have
							come in here without having made my plans. Billy Dempsey is on guard outside. The
							fire-escape is at the front of the house. The servants' entrance is in front directly
							beneath the main entrance. Every exit is in plain view. If all of you, or any one of
							you, try to leave this house without me, Dempsey will instantly place you under
							arrest. So it would n't pay you to shoot."

						

						"That's bunk about Dempsey!" declared Russell.
						"Take a look," suggested Clifford.
						"Mary, keep this gun on him."
						Mary Regan held the automatic point blank at Clifford while Russell moved to the
							window and peered down. Her face was tense with wonderment, but the dark eyes were
							unflinchingly hard.
						Russell returned from the window, took the pistol and resumed his seat. Hedid not
							speak.
						"None of you can leave this apartment to telephone from another room, for if you try,
							I show a handkerchief at the window, or blow my whistle, and up Dempsey comes. And
							besides, Joe," Clifford continued, "you know that I know that you would not shoot
							anyhow. You may bluff, but you have never shot in your life--not at a man. That rough
							stuff is not in your line."
						Russell gazed at him an instant longer. Then he relaxed, crossed his legs, and with
							an easy motion laid the automatic upon the table.
						"You certainly are the goods, Bob," he remarked.
						For the third time Clifford started at the suit-case with his clippers.
						"Wait a minute. Don't spoil a good fifty-cent lock. Here you are."


						

						

							Her face was tense with wonderment, but the dark eyes were
								unflinchingly hard

						

						

						

						From his vest pocket Russell drew forth a key, which he tossed to Clifford and which
							Clifford caught. The next moment the suit-case was wide open on the floor. The two
							halves of the bag were tightly packed with crumpled bank notes.
						They gazed steadily at each other, the crumpled fortune between them. For a moment
							none of the three spoke.
						"The deposits that Jerrold received this morning at the Empire Security Bank,"
							Clifford at length remarked. "How much is there here?"
						"Is this the third degree, Bob--or are we now chatting informally?" inquired
							Russell.
						"Informally, till I say otherwise."
						"Then informally I may mention that I haven't yet had time to count it. But I suppose
							there's a hundred thousand or two."
						"Or more?"
						"More, yes, if it was a lucky day."
						"It was a clever scheme you had doped out, Joe," Clifford commented after a moment,
							"for yours was the brain behind it. Every one at the bank supposed that Jerrold had
							come prepared to rush away for an outing when he carried his tennis racket and empty
							suit-case into his cage. It was possible for him, after the bank had closed, to sweep
							the big bills quickly into the suit-case and carry the coin and a mass of small bills
							to the  vault. No one would suspect. Not till Monday.
							Almost two days' start. That's the way you had it figured out--yes?"
						"My dear fellow, you don't seem to need any information from me."
						"It was clever, how you coached Jerrold into attracting attention to himself at the
							Pennsylvania Station. When the bank discovered what had happened, the first search
							would have been directed at Long Island. More time for you. Yes, the whole scheme was
							very clever."
						"Thank you. Rather clever, I agree. But unfortunately a small item was
							overlooked--said item being one Robert Clifford, Esquire. you've got me beaten, Bob,"
							Russell continued pleasantly, "and I'm not one of the fools who fight on after they
							see it's all over. I suppose we might as well be moving along to Headquarters. I'll
							just call Jerrold in and get my hat. Mary, you get ready, too."
						Mary Regan, who had been standing near the window, passed behind Clifford toward the
							hall door. Russell, with as much urbanity in defeat as in victory, rose and turned
							toward the bedroom. There was no signal that Clifford saw, yet one there must have
							been. Suddenly from behind a heavy cloth descended and enveloped him--later he learned
							it was a tapestry couch cover--and in the  same instant
							Joe Russell was embracing him, gripping his arms helpless to his side.
						"Mary, the trunk strap!" cried Russell.
						With that close-woven fabric muffling him, Clifford knew breath spent in crying out
							was wasted; he put it all into a fierce effort to break Russell's clasp. But bound by
							the cloth and his elbows pressed into his ribs, he could get no leverage for his
							superior strength; and though he could have struggled free had there been five
							minutes, the wiry arms of the older man held until a loop of broad father slipped over
							Clifford's shoulders. The next moment it was drawn tight about his elbows and buckled.
							And the next moment his ankles were securely bound.
						"Sorry, Bob," panted Russell, "but we couldn't let you get away with it."
						"Who is he?" interjected a high, excited voice, that Clifford knew must be
							Jerrold's.
						"He used to be a friend, but at present he's a danger to us. It's all right now
							though, my boy. Mary, you and Philip make ready for our get- away."
						"But Mr. Clifford's man below--that Mr. Dempsey?" put in Mary Regan.
						"When we're ready to leave," said Russell, "we'll give Dempsey the signal to come up.
							A handkerchief held at the window; that was it,  wasn't
							it, Clifford? When he gets in here I guess the three of us can give him the same we've
							given Clifford. Come, hurry!"
						Clifford heard rapid movements, low, quick plannings. His chagrin flamed up to a fury
							of self-disgust. A minute before he had believed he had held victory in his hand--and
							here he was trapped by a trick so absurdly ancient that he had not dreamed any one
							would ever try it again. And the whole business would come out, and up and down the
							city he would be laughed at and contemptuously referred to by the dullest members of
							the force as "that poor simp!"
						Suddenly, the door-bell rang. Billy Dempsey, thought Clifford--come in response to
							the handkerchief which Russell must have held at the window a minute before. Dempsey,
							entering unsuspiciously, would have a blanket flung over him from behind, and he, too,
							would be humiliatingly trussed hp. Poor Dempsey--he had let Dempsey in for the
							ignominy of this thing, too!
						"Mary, answer that bell," said Russell. "But fasten the chain-bolt; see who it is
							before you let him in." Clifford felt two hands press upon his mouth. " Sorry, Bob,
							but you understand we can't have any conversation from you just now."
						Clifford heard Mary Regan go out; then he heard her renter.

						

						"Philip," she said, "will you please step into the other room a few minutes. There's
							a personal matter I want to talk to my uncle about."
						The bedroom door closed behind Jerrold.
						"Yes?" whispered Russell.
						"It's Harrigan," she said.
						Bound as he was, Clifford started. Harrigan, collector of Chief Bradley's percentage
							of the proceeds of great crime! And Clifford started again at hearing the
							imperturbable Joe Russell swear, and swear with consternation.
						"What are you going to do?" whispered Mary Regan.
						"Try to bluff him off," said Russell, and went out. Clifford discerned guarded
							voices. Then Russell returned.
						"Well?" breathed Mary Regan.
						"He demanded Bradley's share. I pretended I didn't know what he was talking about.
							But he said he knew we'd pulled a job. I kept up my front and sent him away. Come,"
							Russell snapped out, "we've got to get Dempsey up here, fix him and beat it, before
							Harrigan can report to Bradley and Bradley can get here from Headquarters!"
						A light had broken in on Clifford.
						"One second, Joe," he exclaimed through his mummy-cloth; "you mean you tried to turn
							this trick without Bradley knowing it?"


						

						"You might as well know I did. I thought I might for once save twenty-five or fifty
							thousand."
						"I see--and Bradley suspected and had you watched!" cried Clifford, a sense of fresh
							mastery surging up in him: 'You're up against it, Joe! Bradley doesn't have to come
							from Headquarters. He is at the One Hundredth Street Station. I saw him go in as I
							rode up here. it's plain he's on the spot, to watch which way you jump. Sorry for you,
							Joe, but if you try to beat it this minute, Dempsey will grab you. And if you wait to
							pull that trick on Dempsey, Bradley will be right on top of you."
						Neither Russell nor Mary Regan spoke. But Clifford felt the tautness of their
							nerves.
						"If I were not here," Clifford went on, driving home the facts of the situation,
							"Bradley would let you off by giving you hell and then taking half or all the money.
							But with me here, and with my knowing what's happened, he won't dare touch the money.
							He'll be forced to arrest you all. Though you and Bradley have been doing business
							together, I'll bet you haven't one bit of evidence against him--he's too careful; so
							it would n't get you anything to turn against him in court. The way the cards lie
							there's nothing in this for Bradley except glory, and he'll go after all the glory
							there is and soak  you, the very limit, particularly
							since you dared double-cross him in this deal. Yes, Joe, you people are certainly up
							against it!"
						"Bob," Russell said abruptly, "take half, clean out and keep your trap closed. With
							the other half I'll square Bradley."
						"Nothing doing," said Clifford.
						"You fool! There'll be nothing in it for you anyway if Bradley makes the arrest."
						"I know it. But listen--here's a chance for both of us. Let me loose, I'll hang
							around, you divide with Bradley, and Dempsey and I'll grab Bradley with the goods on.
							And I'll see that you all are taken care of."
						"I'm no squealer!" said Russell sharply. "I'll never do it! Talk sense."
						"Here's another chance, then. You're going to be arrested by Bradley or by me--get
							that in your head. Bradley will make out the worst possible case against you, to get
							revenge, to scare other crooks to keep in line, to swell his own reputation, I'll be
							easier with you. it's got to be one of us. So take your choice."
						"How can you arrange anything?--a discharged officer."
						"I'm working privately for Commissioner Thorne. I take you over Bradley's head right
							up to Thorne."

						

						"What--Thorne's backing you? You're giving it to me straight?"
						"Haven't I always given it to you straight?"
						There was an instant's consideration. "But when Bradley shows up here, can you put it
							across on him?"
						"I can if you'll help me." Clifford had been planning swiftly. "And if I fail, you'll
							be none the worse off for my trying."
						"I'm with you then--if you'll agree to a truce for an hour. I want to think about
							bail and a lawyer before you take me away."
						"All right," said Clifford.
						The next moment he was free of straps and couch cover.
						"What's your plan?" demanded Russell. "First thing, to get Dempsey," and, stepping
							quickly to the open window, Clifford held up his handkerchief.

					
					

						IV

						Two minutes later big, unquestioning Bill Dempsey, who knew nothing at all what this
							business was about, and who was satisfied to act as Clifford said, took Mary Regan's
							locked suit-case of woven straw from Clifford's hands.
						"Follow directions exactly, Billy," said Clifford. "Walk up one flight, ring the
							elevator bell and ask  to be shown the apartment just
							above this. It's empty. Take your time about examining it, and hang on there until you
							see that vase of roses on that window ledge there. Then come right down. Now
							hustle."
						Dempsey was no more than safely up the stairway when there was another ring at the
							bell. "String him along as I said, Russell," whispered Clifford. "But remember, Joe,"
							he added grimly, "no tricks with me. Try anything, and you'll have Bradley and me
							pounding you from both directions."
						He slipped into the bedroom that harbored Jerrold, who had been kept ignorant of
							Clifford's identity lest the knowledge unnerve him for the coming scene. Mary Regan
							answered the ring, and ushered into the sitting-room Chief of Detectives Bradley. She
							herself did not enter, and Bradley closed the door. His glance went instantly to
							Jerrold's closed suit-case. Then the dark, square face of the great chief, with his
							little piercing eyes, fixed upon Russell in cold savagery.
						"Whaddu mean?" he demanded, his voice a low growl. "Why didn't you come across to
							Harrigan?"
						"What for, Chief? As I told Harrigan, there's been nothing doing."
						"Don't try to stall me! So"--with a fierce,  dangerous
							sneer--"you thought you could put something over on me, did you? I've got half an idea
							to send you up anyhow for--" He finished by glancing at Jerrold's bag. "Well, you
							arrange to come across in some safe way, or it's a long visit to a damned exclusive
							health resort up the river for yours."
						"I don't get you, Chief."
						"Yes, you do!" His voice rose in angry emphasis. "I guess I know about what happened
							at the Empire Security--"
						" S-s-h! Not so loud, Chief. There's a man in the next room you don't want to hear
							you--Clifford."
						"Clifford! What's he doing here?"
						"He was proposing that I be a silent partner in a private detective agency he's
							thinking of starting."
						"Get rid of him!"
						"I've tried to but I can't. He just hangs on." Bradley lowered at Russell
							viciously.
						"And you pass as a clever man! Why, you damned boob, your brain's club-footed!" Then
							sharply, in a bare whisper: "Why did Clifford go in there?"
						"He slipped in when he heard your voice. I think he thought he might overhear you say
							something."

						

						The bright little eyes became gleaming razor-edges.
						"Does he think he's on?"
						"On?" queried Russell in his blank voice. "I don't get you at all, Chief."
						"We'll see whether he suspects." Bradley raised his voice. "Clifford!"
						Clifford stepped into the room.
						"So, Clifford--doing a bit of gum-shoe work?" sneered Bradley.
						"Just came in for a little chat with Russell."
						"Finish it some other time. I've got business. Move along."
						Clifford sat down.
						"Suppose you move along yourself, Chief. you're no longer my boss. I was here first,
							and I finish first."
						There was a flash of fury in Bradley's little eyes, but instantly it was suppressed;
							and the two enemies gazed at each other with cool masked faces. Clifford wondered what
							was revolving in that swift astute brain. Had he planned subtly enough? Would Bradley
							do as he had foreseen? Or in this present encounter, would Bradley's wits again prove
							the quicker?
						Abruptly the great chief rose. He opened the door of the bedroom and saw young
							Jerrold on the bed. Then he opened the door into the hall and  summoned Mary Regan. Behind her he locked the door.
						"Russell, I got the three of you," he chopped out, his dark face of a sudden
							vengefully and cruelly triumphant. "It's all up. Let's have a look at what you got in
							that young fool's suit-case."
						" Chief, what are you talking about?" queried Russell.
						"Cut that bunk! What's in it?"
						"The young fellow stopped in here on his way from work. I believe he was going off
							for a holiday."
						"Open it up!"
						" Help yourself, Chief. I guess it's not locked." And Russell shoved forward the bag
							that two hours since had come out of the Empire Security Bank.
						Bradley opened the suit-case. The two halves were filled with innocent outing shirts,
							flannel trousers, change of underwear, toilet articles--all Joe Russell's, packed
							hastily into the bag by Clifford. Bradley fingered quickly through the bag's contents,
							then fixed his hard eyes penetratingly on Russell.
						"What's up?" demanded Clifford of the company, with his best simulation of surprise
							and suspicion.
						"What is it, Bradley?" said Russell.


						

						Bradley did not answer; still held his shrewd eyes upon his old-time partner. Russell
							maintained his admirable expression of bewilderment. Bradley turned his gaze on Mary
							Regan; her expression was equally surprised. During the pause, Clifford watched the
							dark face of his former superior, and tried to guess what was about to happen--tried
							to imagine what was flashing through that quick brain.
						The silence lasted for no more than a moment.
						"Russell," said Bradley, accusingly, "where are the lady's clothes and her
							necklace?"
						So Bradley was playing it safe! Clifford knew these words were intended for his
							ears.
						"I can only keep on saying that you've got me guessing what it's all about, Chief,"
							said Russell.
						"A lady's bag was stolen, and one just like it was brought into this building. The
							case was reported at the One Hundredth Street Station, where I happened to be, and I
							thought you might be in on the job." He rose. "Come on, all of you; we'll take a look
							around the flat."
						Exultantly, but apprehensively, Clifford followed. Bradley's mind seemed to be
							working as he had calculated. The Chief half suspected the truth, yet half believed
							himself mistaken; and realized that to show suspicion in front of Clifford, before he
							was certain, would be needlessly to kill  the goose that
							might continue to lay bank accounts and apartment houses.
						There was half an hour of microscopic search for the imaginary bag. Then Bradley gave
							up with grim dignity.
						"With your reputation you've got to expect things like this," he said severely to
							Russell; and as he went out he glanced at Clifford, with the least glimmer of derisive
							hostility in his cold, hard eyes. Russell saw him to the door.
						"What does he think?" Clifford asked when Russell had returned.
						"For one thing, he thinks he pulled the wool over the eyes of ex-Lieutenant
							Clifford."
						"Does he suspect anything?"
						"How could he help suspecting, with Jerrold here?"
						"We can't have him watching us. You gave him the rest of the song-and-dance?"
						"Oh, I went through the rest of your little play, exactly as per stage directions.
							Whispered that he wasn't altogether wrong in what he suspected, only he was too soon.
							To-day had been just a rehearsal. The boy was going to carry the suit-case to the bank
							a few times to quiet suspicion there, then if all went well we were going to pull the
							trick. If we had decided to go through with it we'd have given him due notice, and
							have seen that he got his share. I  gave him the devil
							for almost balling the whole thing up by butting in here as he did."
						"Good!"
						Clifford stepped to the window. He saw Bradley emerge from the house, and turn a
							corner. Then he set the vase of roses on the window-ledge. Two minutes later he took
							from the reappearing Bily Dempsey Mary Regan's suit-case with its fortune of
							bank-notes, and sent Dempsey down again to his post.

					

					

						V

						For a space there was silence among the three. Russell and Mary Regan seemed to be
							waiting for their captor to speak or act. For his part, Cliford had begun to feel
							strangely at a loss. Mary Regan, who had obeyed his orders and acted well her part
							while Bradley had been upon the stage, had resumed toward him her attitude of
							disdainful reserve.
						"What's next, Bob?" Russell gently prompted, again easy, suave, smiling. "I've had
							all the time I needed for thinking, so I suppose we might call our little truce over.
							Shall we be moving along to Headquarters?"
						Clifford had believed until this moment that, the truce at an end, he was going to
							lead them straight down to be arrested by the waiting Dempsey. But  something held him back from immediate action--the same
							formless motive that had in the first instance held him back from telling Dempsey all
							he knew and suspected: something which had to do with that dark, contemptuous Mary
							Regan--just what, he did not know.
						Clifford's answer was a surprise to himself. "We'll not leave just yet," he said.
						"So!" Russell raised his eyebrows the least trifle. Mary Regan showed an instant of
							amazement. "How long are you going to keep us here?" inquired Russell.
						"That remains to be seen," said Clifford. "Thanks," Russell returned dryly.
						The two men regarded each other with level eyes.
						"As I was saying a while ago, Russell," began Clifford, a stern note coming again
							into his voice, "the way you framed this trick up, and got young Jerrold into it, was
							very clever. But, Russell, I think that this is about the meanest brace game you ever
							doped out. I'll say this for you, that most of the suckers you have trimmed have been
							men who haven't deserved a lot of sympathy. But to work upon an honest, ambitious boy
							like Jerrold with a dependent mother, until he became your willing tool--well, it was
							pretty rotten, Russell, pretty rotten."
						"My dear boy, you are too energetically virtuous  for so
							hot a day," Russell protested mildly. "Go easier, or your moral nature may suffer a
							sun-stroke. The fact is, the mother was to have been taken care of. And as for
							Jerrold--think of him having to handle stacks of money every day, helping to pile up
							the millions of profits for the big bankers--and for it all getting in the end perhaps
							thirty a week. that's not such a devilishly brilliant career to have saved the boy
							from."
						Clifford did not attempt to reply to the element of twisted truth in Russell's words.
							He turned to Mary Regan, who was still standing stiffly upright, and who still held
							upon him the same hard, contemptuous gaze. She had treated him with scorn and insult,
							she had stung him whenever chance had offered. And now his turn was come to sting
							back. And he wanted to sting hard. He wanted to kill, by a brutal summary of the
							facts, that feeling in himself which hurt him so.
						"And your part, Miss Regan, was even worse," he drove at her. "You have allowed your
							personal charm, your sex, to be used to lead an undeveloped boy on to his ruin. You
							have encouraged him to fall in love with you. Had he not been wildly infatuated, he
							could never have been induced to do what he has done. It is plain how you and your
							uncle worked it. The boy was led on to the point where he dared blurt out his love.
							Then he was  adroitly given to understand that a man
							without money could have no hope of marrying you. Then by degrees, skilfully, it was
							suggested to him how he could get the necessary money. And he got it. To-night, you
							and Russell would probably have taken the express to Montreal--the money with you. You
							would have broken the boy's heart, and made him pay alone the penalty of your crime.
							You would have ruined him utterly. And you would have killed his mother. You are
							soulless--utterly despicable!"
						She blanched at the merciless impact of his words, and gave a little gasp, and could
							only stare at him speechlessly. But the next moment she was at him, standing furiously
							above him.
						"What you say isn't worth that!" her words rushed out, and she snapped her fingers.
							"And it's worth all the less coming from you! Honesty! Every person is out to get his. Every person! And out to get it the easiest and safest way they
							can. that's what the whole world is doing, whatever else they may pretend. Honesty!
							There isn't any such thing. It's just a word that hypocritical thieves use to
							intimidate fools into leaving alone what they've stolen"
						She paused to catch her breath. Clifford blinked at her, bewildered. Such an amazing
							cynicism--yet a cynicism indubitably as sincere as a religion.  And yet, at the most she could be hardly more than twenty-two.
						"And you are out for yours, too, Mr. Detective Clifford!" she blazed on with her
							annihilatory scorn. "We couldn't help acting with you against Mr. Bradley, but I at
							least didn't believe a word you said. Your trial and discharge showed you up for what
							you are. You detectives are the lowest crooks on earth. You make the crooks who have
							the brains or the courage to get out and do something, men who really take risks, you
							make them split with you. And when you arrest them, it's to gain promotion with higher
							pay, or it's to make the crooks more afraid of you so that they'll give you a larger
							share. And in this affair," pointing toward the suit-case, Dempsey had returned,
							"there's more in it for you than for us. You've done no thinking, you've taken no
							risks, yet you'll demand the lion's share in spite of your refusing my uncle awhile
							ago when you knew there was danger of your being caught by Mr. Bradley. You're safe
							against Bradley now. Well--how much are you asking?"
						"Not a dollar bill," Clifford managed in his amazement to articulate.
						"Then it's because you see more in it for you by pretending to be honorable!" she
							rushed on. "Oh, don't you think I see what it means to you? A  far bigger thing than it can ever mean to any of us. Oh"--with a flash of
							inspiration--"I see now why you are not arresting us at once! Since Mr. Bradley has
							been fooled and put off, you think you can hold us here several days--until the bank
							finds out. Then the papers will be full of it. And the bank will offer a big reward,
							and increase it--perhaps to $50,000. Then at the dramatic moment you appear with us,
							arrested. You get the reward--there will be a tremendous story--later you send us to
							prison--you will be an international figure--your lost name will be retrieved--you may
							be reinstated in the police department--all honor will be yours! There, Mr. Detective
							Clifford, haven't I sized up exactly what this means to you?"
						"It may mean most of that," Clifford admitted, "But if any of these things do come,
							they will come as the consequences of doing my duty."
						"Your duty! U-ugh, I knew I had your measure!"
						She turned her back upon him in uttermost scorn and gazed out the window.
						"I would n't worry, Mary," put in the equable voice of Russell. "He can't do quite
							all these things. Bob, you know I asked for that truce to get a chance to think. Well,
							I've thought. You know you haven't got a thing on us. The money is  here, of course, but you can't prove that we had anything
							to do with getting it here."
						"I'll have plenty on you when young Jerrold in the next room there tells his story to
							Thorne. And he'll tell all right--why shouldn't he?--when Miss Regan tells him how she
							deceived him in the matter of loving him."
						Mary Regan whirled about.
						"I shall not tell!"
						"Yes, you will. It's the only decent thing there's left that you can do for the boy.
							You and he are about to part, and he must not be allowed to go on thinking that you
							love him; he's got to be cured of that." It gave Clifford a hurting pleasure to be
							thus giving pain for pain. "And besides, while I'm making you no promises, there are
							some things I can do to make this a bit easier for you--and if you want these from me
							for yourself or your uncle, you've got to tell Jerrold."
						"I shall not!" she repeated.
						Joe Russell studied Clifford for a space between his half-closed eyes.
						"Mary, my dear," he remarked, "it's a fairly good working rule, when your best is a
							pair of twos and you know the other man has got a straight flush, not to back your
							twos with everything you've got. I think we'd better tell, Mary."
						"Then let Mr. Clifford tell!"

						

						"You'd better do it, Joe," said Clifford.
						Russell shrugged his shoulders. His even voice he raised the least trifle.
						"Mr. Jerrold, will you kindly step in."
						The door of the bedroom opened and young Jerrold entered.
						"Mr. Jerrold, I believe I did not mention," continued the amiable voice of Russell,
							"when you first met Mr. Clifford that he is a detective."
						"What!" The boy galvanically fell back. "Also," continued Russell, "he knows just who
							and what you are, and what we've been up to, and how you got the money in that
							bag."
						"Then--even though we beat Bradley--it's all up?" gasped Jerrold.
						"You are best qualified to answer his question, Bob."
						"You are not going to get away with that money," said Clifford.
						Jerrold turned toward Mary Regan, who stood at the window, her back to them.
						"Mary--you hear that?" he said huskily. "What are we going to do?"
						Mary Regan did not reply, nor did she turn.
						"Better tell the boy now, Joe," advised Clifford. "Mr. Jerrold," said Joe Russell,
							"we all seem to be the victims of circumstances--and of Mr. Clifford. Mr. Clifford is
							of the opinion that a certain  bit of information should
							be imparted to you. Mr. Jerrold, you, in particular, have been also the victim of a
							slight deception. Mr. Clifford thinks you should be told that I am not the Southern
							gentleman that you believed but what Mr. Clifford would call a confidence man, and
							that my niece is a member of the same industrial family; that I arranged affairs so
							that you met and fell in love with Mary; that I planned the bank robbery, and used you
							to commit it, with the full intention that you should get little of the proceeds; that
							Mary did not love, does not love, never would have loved you, and would have passed
							you up as soon as our plans were ready for that move. Mr. Clifford, have I been
							sufficiently explicit?"
						Jerrold had flung himself to Mary Regan's side and was clutching her arm.
						"Mary," he cried, "that isn't so!"
						Mary Regan made no sign.
						"Mary, for God's sake--tell me it isn't so!"
						She turned. Her face was very white, and was tense with the strain at control.
						"It is so," she said.
						The boy stared at her with unbelief, then terror, in his eyes. And Mary Regan, with
							face that grew sickly in its whiteness, had to gaze at this love which she had called
							into being and had now given a mortal wound. Suddenly, Jerrold, without a  word, dropped into a chair and huddled there, face
							covered, his whole body twitching, his breath coming in a tremulous hiss and going out
							a low broken moan.
						The other three said not a word for over a minute. Then Joe Russell leaned forward
							and, not unkindly, stretched out a hand and put it on the boy's knee.
						"Don't take it so hard, Philip. You would have got experience, and on my word it
							wasn't our intention to leave you flat."
						Jerrold rose shakingly to his feet. Apparently he had not heard Russell, for his eyes
							were on Mary Regan.
						"How could you make me think you loved me, when you didn't," he said, speaking
							thickly. "I took that money only because of you. If you didn't love me, why did you
							let me take it? If you didn't love me, why didn't you let me alone? Oh, my God--I've
							lost what I hoped to have with you-- and I've lost what I already had! "And then as a
							sudden new realization came--with a gasp--"Oh. ... my mother!"
						Mary Regan's face became greenish in its whiteness.
						"Better go back, Jerrold, and lie down," advised Clifford.
						Without another word the boy turned and staggered  out
							and closed the door. The next moment they heard him fling himself upon the bed, then
							heard low, muffled moans.
						"You might as well go, too, Mary, if Bob doesn't object," said Russell.
						Clifford nodded. Mary Regan, her face set, her eyes squarely meeting Clifford's
							though now they lacked their former hardness, crossed the room, striving to walk
							steadily. If Clifford had desired to hurt her in that unproved spot, her soul, there
							was reason to believe that he had succeeded.
						As the door closed upon her, Clifford picked up from the writing table a framed
							photograph at which he had several times glanced. It was of a young man, lean of face,
							not unhandsome, with a marked droop to the left corner of his mouth. Clifford knew the
							original well: "Slant-Face" Regan, cleverest of pickpockets, whom he had several times
							tried to capture, and an equal number of times had failed. That picture had awakened
							him to a possibility that had never occurred to him before entering this room.
						"Are they any relation?" he inquired.
						"he's Mary's brother," said Russell.
						Clifford slowly put the photograph back. The two men resumed their former chairs and
							gazed thoughtfully at each other.
						"Well?" remarked Russell. "What is it?"

						

						"I don't know yet, Joe," said Clifford.
						There was a long silence. Russell leaned back at his ease. It had become second
							nature with that poiseful gentleman to exert no energy of mind and body upon things he
							could not control. After a few minutes, he said:
						"While we're waiting, Bob, what do you say to a game of poker?"
						" All right," said Clifford.

					

					

						VI

						The hours passed, and still Clifford, bewildered at himself, continued to put off
							arrest, though now and again the nervous fear rose in him that Chief Bradley might
							come back. The others showed no surprise at this delay. What Mary Regan in her scorn
							had flung at him was to them an entirely sufficient explanation: the longer he held
							them, the greater the bank's reward.
						All of Saturday afternoon, most of Saturday night, and most of Sunday, the two men
							played poker with matches as stakes--while beside them sat the closed suit-case
							crammed with uncounted treasury notes. They and the two others and that suit-case of
							money composed a veritable bomb of sensation, yet the two men hardly spoke except
							concerning the cards. Russell asked no questions at all about the future; perhaps he
							was fatalistic,  perhaps he had a stoic pride, but he
							showed no concern.
						The two bedrooms of the apartment were given over, without question,. one to Mary
							Regan, the other to young Jerrold. The latter did not show himself again until the
							last; but Clifford knew the boy had not a wink of sleep, for always he could hear him
							tossing about the bed or pacing the floor.
						Two or three times Mary Regan brought in food, and silently left food in the bedroom
							of young Jerrold. Not once did she speak; she did not flinch to meet Clifford's
							glance. Her face was thinner and paler and very strained. Behind that white mask one
							might guess a bewildered non-understanding of events and of inner forces hitherto
							unmet or unawakened.
						During all that strange week-end, with its quiet of unexploded dynamite--during all
							the while that the two men played at poker, with each man's winnings of matches waxing
							alternately to a rich heap and waning to a mere two or three--all the time that he sat
							wide-eyed in the night--Clifford was thinking, thinking, thinking.
						Now he was thinking of this his greatest chance, his greatest coup, which would
							reestablish him with an even more promising future than before. And again, in a very
							different mood, he was thinking of that poor beguiled, disillusioned boy in the next
								 room, staring at the walls in still despair. Till
							this temptation had come upon him, a potentially honest boy,--a hard-working,
							ambitious boy,-- and, though perhaps in no high way, a potentially useful man in the
							years to come. And also Clifford thought of that thin, loyal, poignantly honorable
							mother farther uptown alone in her little flat. ..
						But most of the time Clifford thought of Mary Regan. Yes, all the time, on whatever
							else a part of his mind might be, he was thinking of Mary Regan. That portrait of her
							brother "Slant-Face" had, in an instant, opened her history to him. She was the
							daughter of the once-famous Gentleman Jim Regan, dead these many years, compared to
							whose cynicism Joe Russell's most sinister mood was pastoral naivete. He reconstructed
							her history, her experiences, the course of her life. He now could begin to understand
							her. She had fine qualities; all of the Regans were streaked with fine qualities. But
							reared in the atmosphere that environed Jim Regan, agreeable and attractive beyond any
							other man she would meet--reared in this cynicism which had as its creed that no man
							was honest, and that every man was trying to get the better of every other man, and
							that all trickery was fair, and that the shrewdest man deserved the highest honor--it
							was no wonder that the girl  should believe and practise
							as she did--and no wonder, since she was young and of high spirit, that her cynicism
							should be frankly outspoken, and contemptuously hostile to what she judged
							hypocrisy.
						Yes, he thought he now understood her. And despite her disdain of him, her
							haughtiness, her magnificent independence, despite her beauty which set her apart, as
							he began to understand he also began to pity.

					

					

						VII

						At half past seven Monday morning Mary Regan served coffee. Russell drank his as he
							might have drunk coffee on any other morning. Clifford's cup shook a little as he
							raised it. The other two did not drink.
						Clifford had not yet told them his purpose--chiefly because he had not definitely
							known it himself. Now, however, after two days of feverish thinking, he might have
							told them had not the forbidding hostility of Mary Regan stiffened his pride into
							silence--and also had it not been for the circumstance that at this moment he felt he
							could command no more than half a dozen words.
						When the coffee was finished Clifford stood up. "We'll be going now," he said.
						"I don't quite get you, Bob," said Russell. "I  thought
							you were going to hold us here till a reward was offered. No reward can be offered
							yet."
						"We'll be going now," Clifford repeated.
						Five minutes later they were leaving the apartment, their week-end over. Russell was
							as spruce as ever. The youth was pasty and shaking. Mary Regan was pale with a gray
							pallor, and had purple-ringed eyes. Her face was almost blank of expression, save that
							for Clifford it had its same hard edge of hostility. He was the one who was going to
							profit.
						Clifford carried Jerrold's suit-case, into which the bank's money had been replaced,
							and also Jerrold's racket. Once he mopped his face with his handkerchief--an act very
							unusual for him.
						When they came out of the house, Dempsey sighted them and crossed the street.
						"Get a taxi, Billy," said Clifford; and when the car was at the curb, he whispered
							his directions to the chauffeur, motioned his three prisoners into the machine and
							stepped in after them.
						They swept through the curving drives of Central Park, down Fifth Avenue, then down
							Broadway. As they neared Grand Street, where they knew the car should turn off to the
							left to reach Police Headquarters, the three tensed expectantly. But when the car
							continued on down-town, they exchanged  glances of
							surprise. And when, a few blocks further on, the cab passed Franklin Street, down
							which it should have gone to reach the District Attorney's office, surprise gave way
							to bewilderment.
						"Taking us a round-about way, aren't you, Bob?" queried Russell.
						Clifford nodded.
						Five minutes later the car came to a halt in lower Broadway before a barred,
							fortress-like structure. The time was ten minutes to nine.
						"The Empire Security Bank!" exclaimed Joe Russell.
						Clifford did not heed him. He opened the door of the cab, himself stepped forth, and
							thrust into one of young Jerrold's hands the tennis racket and into the other the
							suit-case.
						"This is where you get out, Jerrold," he said, trying to speak calmly. "Walk into the
							bank as though you'd really just returned from a week-end in the country, get that
							money back into the vault, and get busy on your job."
						"Wha--wha--" the staring boy began to stammer.
						"Go on with you."
						Clifford gave him a gentle push in the direction of the bank. Without looking behind
							him, half-running, half-staggering, the boy crossed the sidewalk  and passed the big uniformed guard at the doorway.
						"We'll wait here a few minutes; there's something we want to see," Clifford said to
							the pair in the cab, and closed the door, and took his stand a few yards away, his
							back toward them.
						When his watch showed quarter past nine, and depositors had begun to enter the bank
							in number, Clifford opened the door of the cab.
						"Will you please come with me," he said, and led the way into the bank, and to the
							thin line before the receiving teller's cage. This queue they joined, and in the slow,
							short lock-step of the bank line they moved forward until Clifford was at the little
							barred window.
						"A pocket check-book, please," said Clifford.
						Jerrold glanced up from beneath his green celluloid eye-shade, went suddenly
							flour-white--then he gave Clifford a lightning swift glance of gratitude, dropped his
							face, and with a mechanical motion laid a check-book upon the marble ledge of his
							window. Clifford pocketed the book and led the way out.
						"I guess it.'s straightened itself out all right," he remarked when they were again
							upon the sidewalk." The boy seems to be safe enough."
						"Back where he started from," murmured Russell. Then--" What are you going to do with
							me, Bob?"

						

						I haven't got anything on you, Joe," said Clifrord.
						"Bob--Bob--" Perhaps before this September morning no one had ever heard a tremor in
							Joseph Russell's voice. He let a second pass. "Bob--I--I--say, I've got your address,
							and I'll look you up, and if you don't want me now, I'll just say so-long."
						"So-long, Joe."
						Rather abruptly Joe Russell turned and went up Broadway. Clifford was left alone with
							Mary Regan.
						"Better get into your taxi," he said briefly, and helped her in, and started to walk
							away.
						"Mr. Clifford!"
						He turned back. The so-dark eyes were staringly wide, and all her features were
							twitching.
						"Mr. Clifford"--and in a bewildered, almost unbelieving voice she counted off the
							things of which two days before she had scathingly accused him--" Mr. Clifford, you
							did this, when by doing the other, you could have had money--and great fame--and been
							reinstated in the Department!"
						"You see," explained Clifford, trying to keep his tone steady, "I did it this way
							because I got to thinking about that boy, and what it would mean to him--and because I
							got to thinking about his mother."

						

						Then Clifford did something which till that instant he had not even thought of doing.
							He leaned nearer and said:
						"The chief reason I did it, Miss Regan, was because I got to thinking about you."
							Their eyes held. For a moment it seemed to him that her proud nature, her premature
							cynicism, were on the verge of breaking. An unbidden happiness reeled poignantly up
							within him, he thrilled with formless expectation. But the next instant she had
							stiffened. She had caught pride and control as they were slipping; she had rescued her
							old self.
						She smiled at him mockingly. "Mr. Clifford"--and her voice was colored with the
							mockery of her smile--" I never believed there was such a man in all the world!"
						She gave him a quick ironic nod, and spoke to the chauffeur. Clifford, alone before
							the bank, dizzy with swift revulsion, stared after that strange creature in the
							disappearing car.

					

				

				

				

					III

					THE HONOR OF SLANT-FACE BEGAN

					

						I

						ASTIR with questionings as to what might be behind his unexpected
							summons here, Clifford pushed the button. The door was opened by Mary Regan
							herself.
						" Step into the sitting-room," was her brief and formal greeting.
						Somehow, after her note, he had half expected a reception less cold than this, cold
							and short though that note had been. More at a loss than ever, he entered the familiar
							room where, over that strange week-end now but three days gone, he had held Joe
							Russell and Mary Regan and their poor dupe of a receiving teller and the suit-case
							crammed with an uncounted fortune of stolen bank-notes.
						Mary Regan motioned him to a chair and herself sat down. Among the possibilities
							awakened by her note was that he might find this proud, wilful young woman in a softer
							and more humble mood. She must have read the very text of his  thoughts, for her first words were a prompt answer to them.
						"Do not think, Mr. Clifford, that my object in sending for you was to hear the
							confession of a penitent." Voice and manner were superbly composed, and set him far,
							far away.
						The immediacy with which she had reversed their positions and taken the upper hand
							nonplussed him yet further. He who had arrested her, and by whose lenience alone she
							was now sitting before him a free woman, and who was here at her request, was being
							treated as though he were the one at fault and as though he were a presumptuous person
							to be snubbed into his place. The audacity of her!
						"Your note gave me no hint of why you wished to see me," he managed to say.
						"Mere curiosity--though strong, to be sure. What you did the other day, it naturally
							made me very curious."
						"Curious? Why?"
						"You will admit that your course was somewhat unusual for a police officer, even a
							discharged officer," she drawled, with a faint, derisive smile. "The Empire Security
							Bank, unknown to itself, had been robbed of two or three hundred thousand dollars. You
							had the three persons captured who had done the job: my uncle, the receiving teller,
								 and myself, who would have made the story twice as
							big by adding the 'pretty girl' element beloved by newspapers. Our arrest would have
							made you sensationally famous, and would have restored you to your lost position. And
							yet you managed the affair so that Mr. Jerrold replaced the stolen money in the bank
							and resumed his accustomed place without any one being the wiser about the
							robbery--and you let Uncle Joe and me go free. Such action isn't the usual course
							pursued by the police. Can you blame me for taking a trifling interest in why you did
							it?"
						She certainly was amazing! But of what might not that pride and mockery and audacity
							be the mask? Three days before, for an instant, he had thought he had glimpsed a soul
							behind it.
						Should he answer her? He wasn't certain, even if he did explain, that she could
							possibly comprehend his point of view. But skeptic and cynic though she might be, he
							would give her the chance.
						" Your uncle has been what he is for over thirty years and may never be anything
							different," he began. "But that young teller who actually robbed the bank, he was not
							by nature a criminal. And I do not believe you are either. it's your training. You and
							Jerrold are both very young. To have arrested you two would have meant the ruin of
							your lives. I could not accept personal triumph at  such
							a cost. I believe"--and here he was repeating what he had said in his own defense when
							reporting to Commissioner Thorne his handling of the robbery--" I believe it is a
							bigger thing, even for a police official, to save a person from becoming a criminal
							than it is to jail him after he has become one."
						"Ah, so your motive was to reform me? You thought I might be rescued and made into a
							better woman?"
						Her sarcasm made Clifford flush.
						"I came here at your invitation, Miss Regan, and I did not come here to moralize or
							preach. But you state my motive and opinion with marvelous precision."
						"Thanks for your solicitude"--very caustically. "Your explanation is very ingenious.
							It has only one slight defect. It leaves me as curious as before."
						"Why?"
						"Because I do not believe it."
						Stung by her cool gibes, Clifford trembled with an exasperated impulse to retort with
							physical chastisement. That impulse he checked, and while he was groping for phrases
							with which he might strike back, down the hallway a key slid into the Yale lock.
						"Your uncle?" he inquired.

						

						"Uncle Joe sailed yesterday on a business trip to Rio Janeiro. My brother has the
							only other key."
						"Slant-Face Regan? I beg pardon--that's the way we know him."
						"Yes. Jim drops in sometimes."
						Steps came down the hall. Clifford lowered his voice to a whisper.
						"You've told him about the other day?"
						"No."
						There entered a slender young man, in perfectly tailored clothes of reserved
							sportiness. His face was lean and dark, with as its outstanding feature a slight
							downward slant to the left corner of his mouth; his olive-gray eyes were quick and
							cold; his right hand, which held an olive-gray soft hat, was long and suggested the
							swift suppleness of a pianist's. The whole of him gave instantly a sense pf relentless
							self-control--and also a sense that in this repressed personality was an incalculable
							voltage of human passions, whose lightning might strike in times and places that there
							was no foreseeing.
						"'Lo, Mary," he said to his sister, who had stepped into the doorway to meet him.
							Then he sighted Clifford and scowled. "Say, what the--" But in the same instant he was
							his expressionless self again. "Hello, Clifford."

						

						"Hello, Slant-Face."
						The master pickpocket, whom Clifford had several times tried in vain to capture "
							with the goods on," drew out a silver cigarette case, offered it open to Clifford, who
							took one, offered it to his sister, who refused, then helped himself. He gave Clifford
							a light, then lighted his own.
						"Well, Clifford," he remarked, "you don't head the list of the guests I expected to
							find at my sister's. I say, Mary, Clifford's not trying to make trouble for you, is
							he?"
						"No."
						"Even if he was, he couldn't do much. Been fired from the Department, you know." His
							cold slits of eyes scrutinized the two. "don'tunderstand the layout here, Mary--you
							and Clifford--but I guess you know your business. I've got a hunch I'm butting into a
							party I've not been invited to. So-long."
						"Don't go, Jim," exclaimed his sister.
						"I'll happen around again when I'll not be an interruption." Calmly, with lithe,
							steely grace, he continued his way, and the next moment the two heard the hall door
							close behind him.
						"You seem to know him," Mary Regan remarked--and Clifford caught a shadow of
							perturbation on her face.
						"Yes."

						

						"How well?"
						Clifford did not answer at once. Despite her coolly derisive attitude toward him, he
							yearned to divert her somehow from that life toward which birth and recent
							companionship had headed her, and of which he believed she did not know the sorry side
							nor foresee the end. And yet he realized full well that her proud spirit would
							scornfully repulse any direct endeavor. At this moment he had an inspiration that
							Slant-Face offered him an opening to act upon her indirectly.
						"Do you want to know how well I really know him?"
						"Yes."
						"I know your brother, in some aspects at least, better than you do," said Clifford. "
							In some details even better than he knows himself. Several times, in the past, it has
							been my duty to try to secure enough evidence against him to guarantee his conviction
							if arrested. So I've studied him, his life, his friends--and so have the men who used
							to be under me--almost with a microscope. That's how I know. Thus far he has managed
							to avoid detection. And for a time he'll continue to escape, for he's the cleverest
							pickpocket working in. New York. But in the end he'll take too long chances, or
							overlook some detail, and will be caught. They always are."

						

						"Most of that I already knew," said Mary Regan.
						"That is only the best," said Clifford. "The worst thing about him is the three pals
							he is now working with. God knows what made him tie himself up with such a bunch; his
							recklessness, perhaps. The three are rotten. Why, the Commissioner was saying to me
							only"--Clifford was on the point of saying "only last night," which would have been
							the truth, but he checked himself just in time--"he was saying to me just before my
							discharge that it would save the state a bill for electricity if they got in a
							gun-fight and were all three filled with lead. I don't believe in the death penalty,
							but if any mortals ever earned the privilege of sitting in the electric chair, they
							are the three pals of your brother."
						"What have they done?"
						"What haven't they done? Miss Regan, you have in your own experience known only
							polite, high-class crime--known only, so to say, crime's respectables, crime's
							aristocrats. Beneath this glittering surface there is a sordidness and vileness you
							may never have dreamed of. Now a pickpocket almost invariably is also a cadet. He has
							a girl, or several, on whose earnings he depends for a steady income. I don't need to
							tell you how she earns it."

						

						Despite her control Mary Regan had paled. "You don't mean--my brother--"
						"No. Your brother is the exception to the law. In him there is a streak of his own
							kind of honor. But you have got to understand the code, the point of view, and
							perverted psychology, of these pickpockets. With them it is the accepted order of
							things for one to have a girl working for him. That is convention. What would be
							strange to him would be not to have a girl. Slant-Face did not have
							a girl. That at first puzzled his three pals. They expostulated with him; they pointed
							out that he was passing up an easy chance to make regular money. But he declared he
							did not want any skirts mixed up in his, and they could not move him. Then they became
							sore because they thought he was trying to set himself above them, trying to be
							different, He was violating the customs of his class. It's human nature to want to
							make the other fellow believe and behave like the rest of his kind--even in religion;
							so the three talked the matter over and decided, since argument would n't work, they'd
							try to trick Slant-Face into conformity. They found a girl, pretty, young, and new to
							that sort of life--Jennie Malone is her name--and arranged matters so that the two met
							seemingly by accident. Their plan succeeded--partially."

						

						He thought he detected a shrinking fear in Mary Regan's dark eyes. "Succeeded
							how--how far?"
						"He was attracted by her--fell in love with her--and they're now living
							together."
						"Has he--you know--put her on the street?"
						"Not yet."
						"And that's--that's all?"
						"That's all--so far. But that's not enough to satisfy his pals. They want to make him
							like themselves."
						She was now grayish-pale. "Can't something be done to break his connection with those
							friends?"
						"Can't you be the one to do it?"
						"He won't listen to me." There was a moment of silence. Suddenly she stiffened, as
							though she had just realized that she had lapsed from the attitude of ironic
							superiority she had established for herself, and as though she were resentful against
							herself for that lapse. When she next spoke she tried to speak caustically, as
							before.
						"If I am to believe the reasons you just gave for not arresting me, you are a highly
							efficient reformer, Mr. Clifford--determined to dose the reformee with goodness
							whether he likes it or not. Won't you postpone treatment of my soul, and take on my
							brother as a substitute?"
						Clifford dared believe that the voice of her lips was not the voice of her
							desire.

						

						"I'll try," he said. Then, looking her directly in the eyes: "But you must be ready
							to help me."
						Again there was a moment of silence. Then she gave a short nod.
						The following instant she was even more supercilious than at first. "You'll have to
							excuse me now," she said, rising with bored indifference. But despite this arrogant
							dismissal, Clifford went away with elation in his heart.

					

					

						II

						Below a great colorful triptych by Maxfield Parrish of Old King Cole, there is a
							fitting altar to that demigod of merriment--a polished bar; and lined up along that
							bar you may find any afternoon such devotees as theatrical managers, actors,
							playwrights, popular novelists, bookmakers, stock brokers, gamblers and law-breakers
							of the higher order and the more gentlemanly behavior. Here, during a lull in the
							services, stood Slant-Face Regan alone, sipping a glass of buttermilk--he rarely took
							spirits--when a hand fell upon his shoulder. Without changing his leaning posture he
							easily turned his head.
						"Well, Clifford," he remarked calmly, "d' you think you've got anything on me?"
						"No," said Clifford.
						"Then have a drink. What'll it be?"


						

						"Vichy. But let's drink sitting. I want to say something to you."
						They sat down facing each other in a deeply upholstered booth across from the
							bar.
						" When I've got something on you, Slant-Face," Clifford said, taking up the
							pickpocket's first remark, "I'm going to get you. And if I don't get you, some one
							else will. For every man in the department knows what you are and has his orders to
							lay for you."
						"Sure, I know," said Slant-Face. There was no pretense between these two. "Next
							remark?" "I just wanted to get that in so there would n*t be any later
							misunderstanding. It was something else I wanted to say. Slant-Face, do you think I'm
							on the square?"
						"You? You're damned square--for a detective." The left corner of his mouth dipped
							down in a saturnine smile. "D 'you think any of us were so easy as to believe that
							stuff Bradley put across on you, and got you fired for! Everybody that knows you knows
							you were framed. Bradley!--I guess we're on to Bradley!"
						"I guess we are," said Clifford.
						"Bradley wants to hog the whole game," half-growled Slant-Face. "He's just sent me
							word that I've got to pay more or there 'll be trouble. he's getting more than his
							share now--I can't  come across with any bigger piece of
							change. So he can just cut loose with his trouble and be damned to him! That's the
							word I sent back."
						Clifford sensed that here was a possible opening to get at Chief of Detectives
							Bradley; but he knew that Slant-Face knew he was telling only what was already a part
							of Clifford's. general knowledge, and would probably tell no more. Besides, Bradley
							was off the main track of his immediate business.
						"Here's the point I'm after now," said Clifford. "Slant-Face, very likely you'll live
							and die a crook. But at least you are, in your own way, a clean crook. But,
							Slant-Face--I'm talking now as your friend--the bunch you're trailing with, they're
							rats! Biff Farrell, and Gipsy Joe, and Red Mick, they're the lowest things that ever
							got into human shape. Keep tied to them, and they'll get you in some dirty mess
							that'll make you sick and ashamed for life. And if they don't do that, then some time
							when they get in a tight place, to save themselves they'll squeal on you. You can't
							trust them! they're rotten! Do whatever else you like, but for God's sake, Slant-Face,
							cut loose from them!"
						Young Regan's face had clouded with wilful anger. "I guess I can take care of
							myself!" he snapped out. "With my best compliments, Clifford, please go to hell!"

						

						"Then you are going to hang on with the bunch?"
						"I pick my own friends! "
						The result of this, his first step in trying to execute Mary Regan's commission, had
							been what Clifford had half anticipated. He made no return.
						"Anything more?" demanded Slant-Face.
						Clifford shook his head.
						Regan's manner relaxed. "Then have another drink?"
						"Thanks. No."
						"Well, I've got to meet the bunch." He raised his glass and drained the last of his
							buttermilk, then rose. "So-long."
						"So-long."
						Half way to the door Slant-Face abruptly turned and came back to the table. "I say,
							Clifford--I suppose you mean well. And if it's my luck ever to have to be pinched, I
							hope you're the guy that turns the trick."
						And just as abruptly Slant-Face turned again, and this time went out.

					

					

						III

						Biff Farrell, Gipsy Joe and Red Mick, pickpockets, indulgers in occasional hold-ups
							and burglaries when such were easy and could be considered safe risks, and masters,
							each of them, of  one or two or three women, according
							to how their luck was serving them, sat in the basement caf of Original Joe in a side
							street off Broadway. They were a swagger lot, these friends of Slant-Face: with the
							swaggerness of the Broadway shops that sell cheap ready-made exaggerations of the
							latest extremity in masculine style. And they were conscious of their appearance,
							every one, and preeningly proud of it.
						They were discussing an important detail of their multifarious interests, the
							inexplicable perversity of Slant-Face Regan, the unepauletted generalissimo of their
							more honorable campaigns--when a very pretty girl, whose prettiness was italicized by
							expertly applied make-up, entered the caf, sighted them, and came tilting toward
							their table on her high French heels.
						"Hello, fellows," she greeted them carelessly. "Know where Jim is?"
						"Ain't got an idea, Jennie," said Biff Farrell. It did not fit in with the trio's
							plan to tell her that they were then awaiting Slant-Face. "Have a cocktail?"
						"Nope." She was somewhat spoiled, perhaps, and being still young and pretty dared be
							independent, and so she eyed the three with undisguised disfavor. "If you see Jim,
							tell him I've got tickets for a show for to-night; one of the girls in  it copped them off for me. Tell him to break his other
							date and meet me at the fiat at seven."
						"All right, Jen," Biff promised. "Say, we're talkin' business now, but where can I
							find you in an hour? Something that'll interest you."
						She hesitated, still regarding him with disfavor. "I'll be walking along the west
							side of Broadway between Forty-fifth and Seventh."
						"I'll happen along there;" and as she went out, Biff Farrell, who had been a
							lightweight fighter rising toward mediocrity until his present life ate him down to
							the sapless thing that he was, watched her with small, appraising eyes.
						"Certainly some peach, that kid," he observed. And then in a tone of mixed
							incredulity and disgust: "My God, Slant-Face gets my goat! Why, he could pocket a
							fortune out o' her if he wasn't such a damned fool! And there'd be no hangin' back on
							Jennie's part if he give the word. She'd only be goin' back to what he took her
							from."
						"Makes me sick, too," agreed Gipsy Joe. "Think o' the devil's trouble us guys had to
							get him to look at a skirt at all--and now that we've got him to really livin' with
							one, he won't make nothin' out of it! And now whaddu think o' his sayin' last night
							that him and Jennie was going' to get married some day!"
						"Aw, hell!" commented Red Mick.

						

						"The boob!" spat Biff Farrell. "What for's a guy want to marry a girl he's already
							livin' with unless there's a big stake in it? Ain't he the limit! Jennie ain't askin'
							it. Marryin' when you don't have to, it's throwin' your chances away. You may want to
							get married again some time, when there's somethin' in it for you, and if you do--
							bing!--first thing you know you may be in the cooler." He spat again. "Slant-Face, the
							damned boob!"
						But Slant-Face's behavior seemed something more than sheer mad perversity. Biff
							Farrell roughly voiced the suspicion.
						"I'll tell you what," he said with a forward thrust of his jaw, "it ain't just that
							Slant-Face is a boob and is passin' up his chances. Slant-Face all along has been
							settin' himself up above us. The way he's been behavin' about Jennie is just some more
							of his stuff to show us that he's above our class."He swore, with his mastery of
							obscenity--then: "Me, I tell you what, I ain't goin' to stand for his
							swell-headedness!"
						The other two, in profanity equally obscene, subscribed to this last declaration.
							Here in Original Joe's, indignant conventionality was making the same stand that it
							has made the world over since time began: resentfully, it was determined that the
							other person should not be different.

						

						"Biff, you hand Slant-Face that line o' talk we was talkin' about," said Gipsy Joe,
							"and if that don't do no good, then we'll pull the college boy stunt with Jennie."
						A few minutes later Slant-Face sauntered in with his gracefully slouching gait of the
							unroused panther. Wicked as he might be measured by the world's ordinary standards, in
							this company he looked, and was, a Sir Galahad. The four had a few drinks, Slant-Face
							again sipping buttermilk, and with the drinks a bit of immaterial talk. Then Biff
							Farrell approached the business the three had been discussing. A bravo with the
							others, in the presence of Slant-Face, Biff was hesitant and cringing.
						"Us ginks has been talkin' about you, Slant-Face," he said, after having edged slowly
							toward his subject. "We don't mean to butt in--it's your own business--but us guys
							don't make you out. About you and Jennie. Why, Jennie is a peacherino; any guy 'd fall
							for Jennie. You don't seem to know what you got in her. She could easy put the hooks
							into some rich boob--get him to keep her steady and give her plenty o' dough--and
							she'd slip the coin along to you. Hell, Slant-Face!"
						Slant-Face tensed, but his manner remained composed.

						

						"Nothing doing."
						"But she's soft on you," argued Biff. "She'd come across with the money he gives her
							all right. And you'd be in no danger o' losin' her."
						"Nothing doing," repeated Slant-Face.
						"I see; that might mean you bein' apart more 'n you'd like. Well, then why don't you
							put her on the street? She'd be willin' if you said so. And on the street--God, she'd
							be a walkin' bankroll for you!"
						The control Slant-Face had been keeping upon himself gave way, ever so slightly; the
							olive-gray eyes glinted.. But he still spoke evenly.
						"How you fellows live is none of my business. How I live is none of your business.
							But I'll tell you this for the last time: I'm playing straight with Jennie, and Jennie
							is playing straight with me, and that's how we're going to keep on. You get me?"
						"Aw, your lovey-love business gives me--" sneeringly began Biff Farrell.
						"Shut up!" snapped Slant-Face, and a malignantly destructive gleam leaped into his
							eyes. "Biff, any more talk like that about Jennie and me and I'll smash your face! And
							the same goes for the rest of you! "
						Farrell shrank away from that menacing glare. Coward as he was, he would never have
							won very  high as a pugilist even if dissipation had not
							halted that career.
						" Say, now, Slant-Face," he whined, "don't get sore. I was only thinkin' o' you. I
							didn't mean nothin'."
						"Then say nothing!"
						There was a brief silence. Biff felt that Joe and Red Mick were eying him, waiting
							for him to set going the plan which they had discussed for use in case just this
							recalcitrance developed. Though inwardly Biff shivered, he had to speak or lose
							something of his leadership over the other two. He summoned up all that adulterated
							quality, which in his composition was substitute for courage.
						"Now don't get sore, Slant-Face," he repeated. "And don't let fly until I've
							finished. here's what I gotta say: Why don't you put Jennie on the street, and pocket
							what she makes--when she's already on the street, without your knowin' it, and holdin'
							back for herself the coin--"
						" You damned-- --!" The words which hurtled from Slant-Face's wry lips were such
							words as never get into print. Slant-Face had risen; his cold, contained fury was
							awful. "You-- --liar! I'm going to twist off your rotten little neck!"
						" Wait, Slant-Face!" cried Farrell, springing up and back in a panic. "I ain't askin'
							you to believe  me. I'm only askin' you to believe what
							you see."
						Slant-Face halted. "What I see?"
						"Yes, that's all--only what you see with your own eyes." Farrell, reassured somewhat,
							moved forward. "I ain't sayin' a thing against Jennie. I'm just givin' you a hint to
							what everybody knows but you, and askin' you to take a look for yourself."
						"What everybody knows?"
						"Sure." A bit more of confidence rose in Farrell. "Everybody knows, us guys all
							knows, that Jennie has been pickin' up fellows and keepin' the money herself. Ain't
							that so, boys?"
						"Straight stuff," the two corroborated.
						"You--you liars!" This time the epithet was unreinforced by devastating
							blasphemy.
						"See for yourself, I been tellin' you," pursued Farrell. "There's one o' these here
							young college guys been soft on her, and several times she-- Say, Slant-Face, you
							wasn't expectin' to be away to-night, was you?"
						"Yes."
						"That's what I guessed. Jennie must 'a' been bankin' on that, for I heard her make a
							date with the college guy for to-night. She's goin' to bring him in here a little
							after eleven; he wants to see what life over here is like. Don't take my word,  I say it again, but if you really want to know, you drop
							in here at half-past eleven."
						Slant-Face eyed them piercingly. Their faces were all affirmations.
						Slant-Face's features hardly changed, but behind that lean, wry mask emotions were
							reeling and crashing. For into his reckless, cynical life, sordid where it dipped
							lowest, there had strangely come this straightforward love--which had gripped
							him--mastered him--awakened in him things which he seemed to be meeting for the first
							time. And now, if what they said about Jennie--
						"You'll drop in? " queried Biff.
						With a curt nod, but without a word, Slant-Faoe walked out.
						"Think he'll come?" asked Gipsy Joe.
						"Sure he'll come!" exulted Biff Farrell. "Didn't you see how he took the hook!" Now
							that Slant-Face was gone he puffed himself out. "Guess I put the business across all
							right, eh, boys!" "
						"You certainly did one swell job, Biff," applauded Red Mick.
						The three were so preoccupied that they did not notice that a man had just taken a
							seat at the table adjoining theirs and was deep in his evening paper. It would have
							mattered little to them if  they had noted him, for in
							their opinion there was nothing in their talk that was the least out of the ordinary.
							The man was Clifford. He had shadowed Slant-Face to Original Joe's, had waited for the
							exit of that keen person, and had then slipped in to gather what he might from this
							less subtle trio.
						"We'll give Slant-Face a tumble," gloated Biff Farrell. "The crazy boob--passin' up
							easy dough. And settin' himself up above us--damn him!"
						"Yes, but just how you goin' to do it?" inquired Red Mick.
						"Soft stuff!" sniffed Farrell. "I meets Jennie in ten minutes, don't I? Well, I says
							to her Slant-Face didn't seem to care much about that show she's got tickets for, and
							he seems to have something new on for to-night--another girl, I guess. You get me?
							that'll make Jennie sore. And then I says to her I know a swell guy that's dyin' to
							meet her, and take her out to dinner and a show. Oh, I know how to handle her. I'll
							put it up to her in the way to make her fall for it, all right. And then I brings in
							that young nut that's broke loose from college and is burnin' up Broadway, and who's
							been askin' me to steer him up against a piece o' real life. I'll fix it so that after
							the show they comes here. And Slant-Face  comes and
							spots 'em. See? You know what he'll think. Slant-Face don't ask questions; he acts.
							Seein' Jennie at it, he'll say to himself she might as well be doin' it for him--and
							he'll put her right out on the street. And that'll finish his superior airs, the-- --
							--!" Biff Farrell nodded with a very superior air of his own. "It's pie, fellows. Easy
							as eatin' is for a two-handed hungry man."
						"Great stuff!" acclaimed Red Mick.
						"You sure got a great little head, Biff," admired Gipsy Joe. "Have another."
						Biff had another. Then Biff swaggered righteously forth to his effort to uphold the
							greatest of all man-made gods, Convention.

					

					

						IV

						It was eleven-thirty by the amazing clock of plaster and bronze which The Happy Fat
							Association had presented as a token of its esteem to Original Joe. Jennie, new-come
							from the theater, talked her smartest and listened in fascination to the college boy
							across the table. His father was a millionaire; that had been one of the first things
							he had told her; and the youth had brought her from dinner to the theater, and from
							the theater here, in his own private car of an amazing luxuriousness. Jennie was
							flattered; never before had  she mixed with such
							"class." She had made a "hit," she knew it, and she was energized to make a bigger
							one. She was piqued at Slant-Face for the slight that he had put upon her, but beyond
							this evening's flirtation, which she knew she could and would end in an hour or so,
							she had no further thought of disloyalty to Slant-Face.
						And so she chatted and laughed on, and gaily drank of the wine which came from the
							iced pail beside the table. Jennie--pretty, untrained, intimate since childhood with
							the worst, to whom life's best opportunity had been the last three months with
							Slant-Face, who had clutched this best with a feverish, adoring love--Jennie could not
							judge what worthless clay was this fine-mannered, moneyed youth who for the moment
							enchanted her.
						At a table near the front, in a corner made by the stairway, sat Biff Farrell, Red
							Mick and Gipsy Joe, gazing in satisfaction at the happy pair. Biff especially was
							a-gloat. His was the clever brain that had planned this, and Jennie was behaving
							exactly as he had anticipated. He told the others so and accepted their praise. Yes,
							Jennie was certainly doing it great.
						The stage was set, the introductory scenes were being played. All was ready for the
							entrance of the leading character. Eagerly the three waited for Slant-Face to walk
							down the stairway.

						

						At another table, having just come in, sat Clifford and Mary Regan. All sorts drifted
							into Original Joe's, so their presence drew to them no particular attention. Clifford
							was noted by the three, but they were conscious of having done nothing recently which
							had caught the attention of the police; besides, Clifford was a discharged officer,
							Mary Regan they did not know.
						Clifford indicated the trio in the corner and whispered to Mary Regan that these were
							her brother's mates. She glanced then over and a little shiver ran through her.
							Clifford noticed this with satisfaction, but made no remark. If this wilful spirit
							were ever brought around, she would be brought around, not by another's words, but by
							what she saw, by what happened, by her own thoughts. That was why he had led her
							here-- that she might observe, and think.
						"The girl with that young sport, that's Jennie Malone," he whispered.
						Mary Regan eyed her brother's sweetheart. "She's rather pretty, don't you think?" she
							said.
						"Yes. And she'd always have been O. K. if she had had any sort of a chance."
						"But the way she's behaving with that young fool! "
						"Don't blame her too much. Remember, your brother's pals are trying to put something
							across  on her and him, and so far she's falling for
							it."
						"I wish you had found my brother!" she could not forbear exclaiming.
						"I looked every place I thought he might be."
						At that moment Slant-Face came down the steps and through the doorway. Clifford's and
							Mary Regan's and the trio's eyes fixed upon him, and all five quickened with suspense.
							Slant-Face did not see them. What he saw first, and the one thing he saw, was at the
							far end of the caf6: Jennie and a young swell, joyous in each other's company--
							exactly as Biff Farrell had foretold.
						His face, a little paler than its, wont when he had entered, did not change in the
							slightest degree; and without an instant's hesitation he strode down between the
							tables with his lithe, slouching grace, in which there had come an imperceptible
							tenseness.
						"Hello, Jim," Jennie called to him with a challenging smile as he passed.
						"Hello," he said shortly, and took the table just beyond theirs--the last one in the
							row, and placed just beneath the switch which controlled the cafe's electric
							lights.
						"Who's the party with the frozen stare?" he heard the college youth ask Jennie.
						"Oh, a fellow that thinks he's a sort of friend," laughed Jennie in a voice intended
							fpr Slant-Face's ears, again giving him her defiant smile.

						

						She flirted more openly with the young man. Slant-Face did not guess, and no more did
							Jennie, that she was trying to hurt him so because she loved him so.
						"Jack," Slant-Face called to a passing waiter.
						The waiter came to his side. "Same thing a usual--buttermilk?" he asked
							perfunctorily.
						"Whisky," said Slant-Face.
						As she heard him announce "whisky," Jennie glanced at him quickly--no malicious
							coquetry now in her gaze, only sharp surprise. Again he met her look with the
							unwavering coldness of his olive-gray eyes.
						When the whisky came, he tossed it straight down, and did not touch the little glass
							of water beside it. "Bring me another," he said.
						But before the second glass of spirits arrived Mary Regan was at his table.
						"Jim, come outside. I want to tell you something."
						"After while," he replied in his emotionless, even tone.
						"But, Jim, please!" Her voice trembled. "I'll only keep you two minutes!"
						"After while."
						Before this calm, changeless answer, before his immobile expression, Mary Regan
							turned helpless back to Clifford. SlantiFace drank the second  glass of whisky--and a third. His sister and Clifford, now hardly
							speaking, sat watching him and the couple near him. Jennie, surprised though she was
							by his unaccustomed drinking, nonetheless laughed more gaily than ever at her
							companion, who had begun to ogle her caressingly--she hurting herself frightfully, and
							striving her utmost to hurt the coldly watching Slant-Face. And from their corner at
							the front, Biff and Red Mick and Gipsy Joe looked on in triumphant happiness; things
							were certainly working out all right.
						All who watched waited in mounting suspense. But the lean, wry, satanically handsome
							face did not change by the twitch of a muscle. None had the dimmest guess of what was
							working behind that impassive countenance.
						But though his face was stone, the soul of Slant- Face Regan was anguish and red
							turmoil. He had loved once, loved suddenly and unexpectedly, loved violently. His
							thoughts--they were too swift to attain the definiteness of thoughts--were now leaping
							through his brain like lashing, scorching flames. She had said she loved him. She had
							said she would be straight with him. Re had said he would be straight with her. He had
							kept his word, and he had believed her. And she had fooled him --lied to him! There
							she was, flaunting her lie  and her faithlessness and
							her rich idiot of a lover--
						"Jack, bring me another," he called to the waiter. He had it--and one more--and one
							after that--and yet one after that. Still his face did not change, but a gleam came
							into his narrow olive-gray eyes. The three in the corner noted and began to grow
							uneasy. Upon Clifford and Mary Regan there closed an even deeper suspense. But still
							none of them guessed.
						Satanic fury, which had an element, of the primevally heroic, now convulsed the
							contents of the calm shell which was the Slant-Face Regan "that the cafe saw. He had
							another drink. His native violence, vindictiveness, recklessness, ruthlessness, were
							in mad riot. So she'd throw him down, would she?--after she'd promised to go it
							straight with him. So she thought she was going to take up with that rich college guy,
							did she? So that college guy thought he was going to take his girl away from him, did
							he?--the damned, supercilious, insulting young fool! Well, by God, if he couldn't have
							her--
						It all happened, and was over with, in a moment.
						Slant-Face stood up and reached for the switch on the wall behind him. The room
							clicked black. Like a serpent striking out, his right hand stretched toward where, he
							had carefully marked Jennie's  heart to be, and released
							a death-intending bullet. And while the crack was still in the air, he pointed to
							where he had marked, ever so carefully, the young man's heart to be, and a second
							report overlapped the first. And as the first shrieks rang out, ad before the lights
							could be switched on, he had with pantherish swiftness slipped out of the caf.

					

					

						V

						Master of the art of the "get-away," Slant-Face found himself at daybreak on the
							station platform of a quiet New Jersey town, possessed of a suit- case which he had
							commandeered in transit for the purpose of adding stage realism to his role of an
							ordinary traveler. From a sleepy newsboy, opening a bundle which had just been tossed
							from the baggage-car of a local train, Slant-Face bought a paper. It was New York's
							most sensational morning paper and this was its "mail-train" edition; and though
							Slant-Face knew it not, there had been barely time to crowd the story in. In fact, the
							ink had been wet upon the paper while they were still scrubbing up the blood down at
							Original Joe's.
						"RICH YOUTH AND BEAUTIFUL GIRL MORTALLY SHOT IN CAF" ran the huge double-deck
							headline. Below it was a scant, hurried story; the ambulance surgeons had declared the
							pair would not live to reach the hospital. Slant-Face did not  doubt the declaration, for he had shot to kill. By now the pair had for
							several hours been dead.
						Partly through the furtive dodging life he was forced for days to lead, and more,
							perhaps, through the purpose of that vague power which we call Fate, this first story
							of the shooting was the only story that Slant-Face was ever to see. He, had no desire,
							and made no effort, to see more. He had tried to kill, and knew he had killed. He knew
							the police were after him. He knew what would happen if he were caught. The papers
							could tell him nothing he did not already know.
						The next afternoon he was in Chicago, hiding, drinking hard. Day after day he kept up
							his drinking. He felt no remorse. Those two had deserved it. But he felt a vast
							aching. He did not know what the ache was; he did not try to know; rather he tried to
							anesthetize it with drink. But could he have analyzed that ache, he would have found
							it to be deceived, broken love--disappointment--emptiness. Slant-Face would have
							sneered, perhaps struck savagely, if any one had said that his sick pain was
							heartbreak.
						From the very first he felt the inevitable pull to return, and after two weeks he
							yielded. It was a daring thing to do, to go back; but he was reckless, and he had the
							confidence that comes from being often hunted, but never captured.

						

						Funds were low, and to pay his fare he lifted a pocketbook in the Illinois Central
							Station which contained just enough to pay for his ticket. He was almost caught. The
							narrowness of his escape was a warning to him. He had been clumsy, and the almost
							fatal clumsiness was due to his drinking. He would drink no more.
						It was night when, back in New York and having eluded the notice of the police, he
							stood in a side street just off Seventh Avenue and glanced up at the windows of a
							little flat. This was the "joint" which he and his three pals maintained, but which he
							had rarely frequented. A light glowed dully through the drawn shades; some of the
							three were in. He needed cash, and they would have to stake him.
						He slipped up four flights of stairs and gave a series of dot-and-dash raps on a
							door. After a moment a bolt shot back and he entered.
						"Slant-Face!" exclaimed Biff Farrell, who had admitted him. The other two, rising
							from a table, ejaculated surprise and alarm.
						"Hello, fellows," said Slant-Face, and quietly took a chair at the table. The three
							had been playing craps to kill time before going forth to the more serious business of
							the evening, and dice and money were on the table.

						

						Biff Farrell dropped into the chair he had left to answer the door.
						"Good God, Slant-Face," he breathed, "whaddu mean by comin' back? Don't you know the
							cops are hot after you?"
						"I suppose they are," said Slant-Face.
						"And that there's a reward of ten thousand out for you?" put in Red Mick.
						"I didn't know about the reward," said Slant-Face. "Ten thousand. that's very
							complimentary. Who put it up? Not the police department?"
						"The old man of the young guy you shot," answered Farrell. "And every cop in New York
							is out to grab you and that bank-roll, and Chief Bradley hottest of 'em all. I say,
							Slant-Face"--very nervously--"you should never 'a' come here! Bradley has been havin'
							us tailed every minute, tryin' to get a line on you."
						Suspicion leaped into Slant-Face's mind that for the reward's sake these three might
							betray him. "All right. Stake me to a piece of change and I'll beat it quick."
						"Sure--whatever we got. Dig up, fellows." But as Biff reached for his own thin roll,
							a thought occurred to him--the thought which had rendered him uneasy since the
							unexpected twist the climax of their righteous plan had taken. From  the way Slant-Face spoke it was evident he did not know;
							but now that he was back, he certainly would learn any moment from other sources--and
							if he learned elsewhere, the matter might be presented in a light most unpleasant,
							even dangerous, to them. Better and safer fart that they should seize this chance to
							be the first to speak and thus make the first impression, and present the business in
							its most favorable aspect.
						"Say, Slant-Face," Biff began, smiling propitiatingly, but alert for any move, "o'
							course you know the whole business was just a joke?"
						"Joke? What was a joke?"
						"You know. About Jennie and that college guy. We 'd never 'a' done it, you know
							that--but none of us ever thought you'd take it so serious."
						Slant-Face's whole being went taut. But his expression did not alter; his tone was
							quite casual.
						"I don't quite get you, Biff."
						Biff had not expected that Slant-Face would get him at first. He rose that he might
							be better prepared for unexpected eventualities.
						"Don't you see--it was just a little thing we doped out--just a joke." Biff tried to
							smile with easy, apologetic, good-fellowship. "Sure, ain't told you we didn't mean
							nothin' by it--never guessed you'd take it like you did. And Jennie  --why, Slant-Face, Jennie'd never seen that college guy
							before that night. She'd been as straight as a string with you."
						There, he'd got out the thing he'd feared Slant-Face might learn elsewhere.
						Whirling chaos was suddenly released in Slant-Face; yet his features changed
							little--even less than his fellows had expected. Biff smiled at him with growing
							confidence; he was taking it rather more easily than they had counted. Biff thought,
							and the others thought, that of course Slant-Face knew what they knew. And Fate, which
							had been grimly biding its time for these three, left all four of them in their
							misunderstanding.
						"You say--she'd been straight--with me?" repeated Slant-Face.
						"Straight, I should say so! "Biff's voice was hearty. All was turning out well. "Why,
							I never seen a girl so stuck on a guy as Jennie was on you!"
						The unanalyzed ache of the past two weeks became a wild agony. Jennie had loved him,
							she had been square with him! And with his own hand he had shot her! My God, he had
							shot her! Shot her! Shot her! ...
						Through a blur of red haze he saw the propitiating, smirking face of Biff Farrell and
							the smirking faces of the others. They had made him shoot her!  --they with their lies about her! Insane rage swept up through him with
							the suddenness of a cyclone: a rage compounded of all in his nature that was
							vindictive and cruel and primitive and swift. He leaped to his feet.
						"Damn your soul!" he blazed at Biff. And he lurched toward Biff, his lean, sinewy
							hands clutching for Biff's throat.
						Biff, though he had smiled, had been on the alert for the unexpected. He jerked out
							his pistol. But the infinitely swifter hands of Slant-Face changed their course and
							wrenched the weapon from his grasp, Slant-Face whirled the weapon upon Red Mick and
							Gipsy Joe, who were reaching pocketward.
						"Put your guns on the table!" he snapped at them.
						They hesitated an instant, then each laid a pistol down among the dice and silver
							coins. Slant-Face's left hand picked one pistol up.
						"Aw, come now, Slant-Face," whined Biff Farrell, "don't you understand it was nothin'
							but a joke!"
						"A joke!" Slant-Face cried in an awful tone. "You call it a joke to make me kill a
							girl that's played square with me!"
						They gasped out, all in one voice:
						"Kill her! Why, Slant-Face--"

						

						They never ended. Fate had waited her full time. With almost a single crack three
							bullets leaped with their eternal silence from Slant-Face's hands, and the three men
							slumped loosely down. Slant-Face dropped among the dice the pistol which had shot
							twice, and picked up the third one and once more he shot three times--a total of two
							bullets from each pistol.
						He did not even glance at the three bodies to make certain; this time he had shot in
							full light, and he knew he had done his work. He dropped the two pistols, turned out
							the gas, and so swiftly had he acted that, as alarm was catching its first breath, he
							was through a window and running over familiar house-tops. He went down a fire-escape
							and dropped into the dark courtyard of a rear tenement. From there he plunged through
							the rabbit'sburrow of a passage beneath the front tenement out into the street. He
							gave a swift glance about. The street was empty of police-- or seemed so. He glided
							away: giving not so much as a thought to the three dead men behind hi all his brain an
							agony of remorse over Jennie.

					

					

						VI

						Clifford's ring was answered by Mary Regan. She did not speak until they were in the
							sitting-room of the flat, safe from all possible overhearing.

						

						"Tell me," she breathed, "have the police any clue yet to my brother?"
						"They haven't the slightest idea where he is. At least, not that I could learn."
							Every two'or three days he had been coming to report to her.
						"But they're still after him?"
						"They are--and harder than ever," he admitted, for she had before this insisted that
							he should hold back from her no bit of truth. "Bradley never worked harder on a case
							than on this one, You see, your brother had defied Bradley--said he would n't pay
							another cent; and that made Bradley mad. Besides, the reward is a mighty appetizer,
							and the fact that one of the persons shot was that rich young Garrison has made the
							thing a sensation. It would be a big triumph for Bradley if he or his men could make
							the arrest."
						"Oh, I hope Jim's out of the country!"
						"Perhaps he's in London or Paris now. He's had time." Clifford wanted to reassure her
							consuming anxiety. "Just remember that he's about the hardest man alive to catch."
						She did not at once speak again, and he volunteered nothing more. During the silence
							he studied her dark, worried face, and wondered. Not once had he tried to talk right
							and wrong to her; he had held strictly to his plan of letting her see the ugly side of
							crime, and letting that ugly side speak to  her whatever
							it might have to say. And not once had he tried to press toward intimacy. As far as
							the spoken word was concerned, they stood in exactly the same relation toward each
							other as three weeks before.
						While this silence still remained between them, they heard a key slip into the lock
							of the outer door.
						" Uncle Joe--come back!" breathed Mary Regan. But instead of the polished Joe
							Russell, it was Slant-Face who entered the sitting-room.
						"Jim!" cried his sister, and threw her arms about him. He endured her embrace for a
							moment, silently, without returning it, with an Indian's emotional inhibition.
						"But, Jim," she cried, "why did you come back? Why are you here?"
						"I want money for my get-away. And quick--for I've got to beat it in a minute."
						"I'll give you all I have, and I have plenty."
						She went swiftly into her own room. Slant-Face for the first time now saw Clifford.
							He stepped sharply toward him.
						"What's your business here, Clifford?" he demanded, eyes gleaming.
						"To see your sister, who--"
						"You lie!" he chopped Clifford off. "You're hanging around my sister to grab me and
							the reward!"

						

						"That's not so, Regan," Clifford said quietly.
						"No, Jim--" began his sister, who had come sack with the money.
						"You may fool Mary, but you can't throw the con into me!" cried Slant-Face. His
							pistol came out, and with a lightning-swift hand, which Clifford did not try to
							intercept, he swept over all of Clifford's pockets, and from one drew out a pair of
							hand-cuffs. "You liar!" he snarled. "You had these for me!"
						"I had those for another case," said Clifford in the same quiet voice.
						"Cut out that bunk!" He backed away, covering Clifford with his pistol. "You're not
							going to get me, and no other man--while I'm alive, anyhow."
						Mary Regan stepped between the two.
						"you're all wrong, Jim!" she cried rapidly. "Mr. Clifford has tried to be your
							friend. didn't he advise you, before anything happened, to cut loose from those three
							men? And that night in Original Joe's caf, when I wanted to speak to you, it was to
							tell you something Mr. Clifford had told me--that those three had some crooked game
							working against you and Jennie, and that you should look out. Oh, why didn't you let
							me tell you, Jim! If I'd ever have guessed what you were going to do, I'd have spoken
							right out before them all!"


						

						Slant-Face stared piercingly at Clifford. Clifford met the gaze steadily, thrilled by
							this outburst from Mary Regan--almost the first non-hostile words he had heard from
							her.
						"I'm not after any reward, Regan," he said, replying to th query in those keen
							olive-gray eyes. "And I've got no evidence against you. I've heard it said you
							switched out the light, but I did not see even that much."
						"He's been your friend, Jim!" Mary Regan insisted. "Believe me--it's true! And now,
							here--take this money--and go!"
						" Thanks, Mary." Slant-Face took the bills, his eyes still on Clifford. "I don't
							quite get you, Clifford," he said after a moment, "but I guess I've got to thank you,
							too. And here are your bracelets."
						Clifford slipped the hand-cuffs back into his pocket.
						"By the by," Slant-Face remarked casually; "before I came here I dropped in on Biff
							Farrell, Red Mick and Gipsy Joe to get money from them. I found them dead."
						"Jim--did you--"
						"I found them dead," he interrupted with blank, grim face.
						"Jim! . . ." Then with galvanic energy: "You must hurry, Jim. Perhaps you can slip on
							the 
							

								"You're all wrong, Jim! Mr. Clifford has tried to be your
									friend"

							
							
							
							Mauretania unseen. After so long the police will hardly be watching
							the boats for you. It sails tonight in an hour or two."
						Slant-Face accepted her kiss, gave Clifford a "so-long," and was turning to leave,
							when Mary Regan caught his arm.
						"Another thing, Jim. Jennie begged me, if I could get word to you, to tell you that
							she undertands everything now, and loves you just the same."
						The lean, wry face of young Regan twitched spasmodically. His mouth fell open, but no
							words came from out it. He seemed able only to stare at his sister.
						"You--say--Jennie--" he began in a thin whisper, and said no more.
						"Yes, she still loves you."
						"You mean--she isn't--dead?"
						"Why, Jim," she cried amazed, "didn't you know?"
						He shook his head.
						"Jim, all the while you've been thinking you killed her!" she marveled numbly. And
							then: "The fact that the shooting was done in the dark, that's what saved them."
						He caught at her last word. "Them? You mean--he--"
						"The young fellow left the hospital several days  ago.
							Jennie is leaving to-morrow. I'm bringing her here to stay with me."
						Of a sudden Slant-Face sank into a chair and dropped his head into his hands. And
							ever so slight a shiver ran through him. They let a moment pass.
						Mary Regan moved to his side and put a hand on his shoulder.
						"Jim! . . ." she breathed in an awed voice. And then: " You must hurry now if you are
							going to catch the boat."
						He looked up. His face was paper white, but had its usual Indian's immobility
						"I'm not going."
						"Not going? "
						"I'm going to stay here where I can see Jennie when she comes out."
						"But, Jim, you'll be arrested!" Mary Regan cried frantically. "Why, the police may be
							after you this minute!"
						"I don't care."
						"But, Jim, are you crazy? Hurry--and Jennie can join you abroad as soon as she can
							travel."
						"I'm going to see her here," said Slant-Face quietly.
						Clifford stared bewildered at this incalculable being. Only partially could he
							perceive and understand the violent reaction, the cataclysmic changes,  that were operating in the volcanic soul within that
							stoic mold. Mary Regan pleaded with him frantically that he fly; but the furthest
							Slant-Face would yield was to consent to leave the flat and go into hiding, and wait
							for chances for stolen meetings with Jennie.
						Had there been a few hours, his high-wrought emotionalism might have receded, and
							self might have risen, and he might have flown. But even as Slant-Face yielded to this
							compromise, the apartment bell rang out, long, authoritatively. The three gave a
							start, and again Slant-Face was wide awake, alert.
						"The police!" whispered Mary Regan. "Oh, Jim, it's too late!"
						None moved to answer the bell, and none tried to escape. That front door, as Clifford
							knew from a previous experience, and as the police outside must also know, was the
							apartment's only exit. The bell rang out again and again was unanswered. Then they
							heard a master-key slip into the lock and turn back the bolt. The door rattled, but
							did not open, for on entering Slant-Face had thrust the chain-bolt into its
							socket.
						A big, heavy voice boomed out: "Open up in there! Or we'll chop down the door!"
						It was the voice of Chief of Detectives Bradley. The dismay which had seized upon
							Clifford at the  first touch of the bell became in an
							instant a panic of consternation. He was trapped! The interpretation that would be
							placed upon his presence here was incontrovertibly obvious: he had been found
							assisting a notorious fugitive to evade arrest. And the man who had trapped him was
							Bradley! Again Bradley had triumphed over him and the disgrace that had fallen upon
							him as the outcome of his first conflict with the great Chief of Detectives was as
							nothing measured by the disgrace now about to descend upon him.
						Sister and brother noted the swift change that had come in Clifford's face. Mary
							Regan demanded the reason, and insisted; and briefly Clifford told her.
						"It's about like this, is it?" queried the alert Slant-Face. "Besides getting me, and
							grabbing off the ten thousand reward, Bradley will soak you?"
						"That's about it--except that, of the three things Bradley would rather soak me."
						"I see," remarked Slant-Face--and for an instant he might have been thinking.
						"Open up," roared Bradley, "or the next second we smash hell out of this door!"
						"Nothing for it but to let them in," said Slant-Face. "Clifford, I want another word
							with Mary, so you bring in the bulls." And putting his hands  on Clifford's body he turned him about and pushed him from the room.
						Heavy, sick, Clifford went down the little dark hallway and unfastened the
							chain-bolt. "Grab him!" Bradley ordered his men, not recognizing Clifford, but knowing
							him not to be the fugitive he sought, and brushed by him and entered the sitting-
							room. Clifford, his arms seized, was pushed in after his former chief.
						Mary Regan and Slant-Face were seated behind a table. They did not rise. The square,
							dark face of Bradley, with its brilliant little eyes, fixed upon Slant-Face in grim
							gloating.
						"Well, Slant-Face!"
						"Well, Chief," was the very composed response.
						"So, I've run you down at last!"
						"So it seems, Chief," said Slant-Face.
						At that moment one of the men who held Clifford thrust him forward before the Chief's
							attention. Bradley stared dumfounded at Clifford. Then his dark face flushed with
							greater triumph.
						"And I've got you again too, Clifford!" he cried with crunching, vindictive joy.
							"God, what a nice business for you--accomplice of a fugitive from justice who's just
							murdered three more men. You'll get yours, Clifford, and you'll get it good and
							plenty!"
						Clifford made no response. It was beyond him  to speak.
							What his enemy had said was the truth. He was sick.
						"I don't quite get what you say about Clifford, Chief," remarked Slant-Face in his
							even tone, still keeping to his chair behind the table. "But I size it up that you
							think this is a great day for you-- getting me--and ten thousand--and getting
							something on Clifford--all in one haul."
						Bradley could not restrain a brighter gleam of his little eyes at this summary of his
							victory and vengeance. But he did not answer Slant-Face.
						"Boys," he said sharply, "put the bracelets on the two of them."
						"Just a second, Chief," said Slant-Face. "I'm sorry you're not the one to make
							something out of this, for you and I have been friends. But if money and the glory of
							grabbing me belong to any one, they belong to another man."
						"What's that?" snapped Bradley.
						"Some one beat you to it, Chief."
						So saying, Slant-Face rose from the table. For the first time they saw that on his
							wrists were hand-cuffs.
						"Clifford had tailed me here, Chief," he went on, "and had nabbed me just before you
							showed up.
						Automatically Clifford felt the pocket where his hand-cuffs had been. It was empty.
							In an instant he understood. A minute before, under cover  of pushing him from the room, Slant-Face had picked that pocket.
						Through the blur of his own amazement, Clifford saw Bradley glaring at him in
							stupefaction, saw his dark face work convulsively with frustrated rage. Before he
							himself could grip his control, he again heard the even tone of Slant-Face.
						"Guess we might as well be moving along down to Headquarters. So-long, Mary," and
							Clifford saw him give a manacled hand to his sister and again endure a close embrace.
							"I'm ready, Clifford. And, Bradley, if you feel like joining us, I think Clifford
							ought to be able to stake all of you to car-fare out of his ten thousand."
						As unpretentiously calm as if he were moving to the bar to order his accustomed
							buttermilk, Slant-Face started for the door. And with a swift glance at the white face
							of Mary Regan, Clifford, still a-reel with bewilderment, followed his prisoner
							out.

					

				

				

				

					IV

					THE THIRD WATCHMAN

					

						I

						"SO much for Slant-Face Regan," ended Commissioner Thorne. When he
							spoke again, his voice was savage, low. "But his case is not what we're here for. it's
							my case. I'm in a hole! And the Police Department's in a hole, too!"
						Clifford glanced with instinctive caution about the bedroom in the Biltmore, to which
							both he and the Commissioner had come in separate and round- about ways for this
							secret meeting, He drew nearer the chief and spoke in a whisper.
						" Those bank robbery cases? "
						"Yes! The police have not done a thing, and have not even a clue!" The Commissioner
							could hardly control his impotent wrath. "And great God! you've seen how the
							newspapers have been panning me?"
						"I have. And incidentally, Chief, I have seen how the papers have all been praising
							Bradley;  saying that if you hadn't curtailed his powers
							as chief of the detective bureau, he would have had those safe-men long ago."
						"But I haven't curtailed Bradley's powers!"
						"I know. But Bradley has made the newspapers believe you have. That's the same thing.
							As a manipulator of the newspapers, Bradley has the world beaten."
						"And on top of that, he gets sick--"
						"Or pretends to get sick," amended Clifford.
						"And leaves the whole proposition straight up to me!" ejaculated the angry
							Commissioner.
						"Just so," said Clifford; and, after a moment: "Since you've asked me here, Chief,
							I'd like to say just five things."
						"A hundred, if you want to!"
						"First, Bradley wants to be the head of the department; most of the force look to him
							as the coming man. This whole bank robbery epidemic is partly a frame-up on Bradley's
							part, to get you in so bad that you will have to resign in response to public clamor.
							And public clamor, inspired by him, will demand that he be made chief in your
							place."
						"Next?"
						"Second, there are other big safe jobs being planned this minute."
						"Go on--cheer me up!"

						

						"Third, examine the records of the transfers of detectives Bradley has had you sign
							during the last two or three months. You'll find all the honest detectives who know
							safe-men are working out in the suburbs, where they've nothing to do but say
							good-morning to the goats. Bradley hasn't left an honest detective on Broadway, who'd
							know a safe-man if he saw one."
						"Fourth?"
						"Fourth, those safe-men have got away clean with those big jobs because everything
							was fixed with Bradley before they began to operate. Bradley's getting his fifteen per
							cent."
						"Fifth?"
						"Fifth, Bradley knows exactly what's doing, and could have every man cracking cribs
							in New York locked up within two hours."
						"couldn't you," asked Commissioner Thorne ironically, "just to put me entirely at my
							ease, add a happy little sixth?"
						"Well, the other day I happened to see Billy Hawkins on Broadway."
						"You think it's Hawkins?"
						" He's the smoothest safe-man in America. And the size of the jobs--he won't touch
							anything smaller than two or three hundred thousand dollars --and the clean style of
							the jobs, make it look like Hawkins."

						

						Commissioner Thorne leaned forward, his face set.
						"Clifford," he said sharply, "Bradley's put me in bad! I've got to get those safe-men
							or go under. I'm not sure of a man in the department. Somebody I can trust has got to
							help me. And that somebody has got to be you!"
						"that's a mighty big assignment, Chief," said Clifford slowly. "All right, though.
							But you must let me go my own way and pick my own men."
						"Anything you want! And while you're at it, get Bradley, if you can!"
						Clifford's face set grimly.
						"Oh, I'll get Bradley--if I can. But don't let's forget this, Commissioner--Bradley
							is the wisest of all wise guys!"

					

					

						II

						As Clifford came down into the lobby of the hotel, he saw just before him the square,
							powerful figure of Bradley himself--supposed to be ill and spending this month of
							December on a leave of absence in the South. Clifford instinctively tautened; but in
							the department, such men as he and Braddley mask their purposes, and do not strike
							until they believe the blow will carry home.
						"Hello, Clifford," called Bradley. "Have a drink."

						

						"Thanks, Chief. I'm on the wagon."
						"You're wise. Sit tight! haven't seen you for a couple of months. Say, that was a
							great collar you made of Slant-Face Regan--three murders, shooting up two others, and
							on top of that a ten thousand dollar reward. What you going to do with the coin?"
						"I'm not spending it yet, Chief."
						"Might as well be. you've got Slant-Face standing up, and he's the same as convicted.
							Of course you know, Clifford, that his conviction will mean your reinstatement in the
							department. What I stopped you for was to say that as soon as you get back, I'll have
							a good assignment for you."
						"Thank you, Chief." Clifford saluted his former chief and present arch-enemy and
							passed on, smiling grimly to himself and knowing Bradley doing likewise.
						Clifford glanced at his watch; it was just seven o'clock. The most likely place to
							find an operator of Hawkins' caliber was at dinner in one of the best-known hotels,
							for Hawkins preferred, for business reasons, to mix inconspicuously among the
							well-to-do and respectables. Clifford looked into the dining-rooms of the
							Biltmore--Delmonico's-- the Ritz--the Astor--and again the Biltmore. This time he
							entered, secured a corner table, and out of the. tail of his eye watched a man who sat
								 alone at a table with places arranged for three: a
							man of perhaps forty-five, in evening clothes, lean of face, cold of eyes, reserved in
							manner. Mr. William Hawkins always looked the part of a reticent man of affairs.
						If there was one quality that particularly distinguished Clifford from other police
							officials, it was his humanness: his recognition that accidents of birth and of
							environment make the average criminal, and not a perverse native instinct; and his
							disposition to give the criminal a chance to become a man where possible. But as he
							gazed across the tables at the cold lean mask of a face of Hawkins, all that was
							relentless and indomitable in Clifford surged up and assumed control of him. To help
							Thorne--to defeat Bradley--perhaps to catch Bradley in his subtle plannings--this
							would have been sufficient motive. But Hawkins multiplied the motive; for Hawkins he
							knew to be without conscience and without mercy. Clifford remembered poor Joe Gregory,
							once one of Hawkins' subordinates. Gregory had determined to go straight; he had told
							Hawkins he was quitting the outfit and quitting the game. The next day he had been
							found stiff in his bed; an overdose of a sleeping potion was the coroner's finding--he
							who had never needed, or taken, a sleeping potion in his life. Hawkins let no man quit
							who shared his secrets.

						

						Clifford, keeping Hawkins under observation, swiftly counted the difficulties of his
							assignment. This was to be no case where the super-detective of fiction--Clifford
							smiled whenever he encountered that entertaining but improbable gentleman in
							print--could examine a cigar's ash, meditate an hour in laboratory or study, and then
							bring villain and narrative to a dramatic close. That finished quiet gentleman over
							there was the criminal equivalent of the highest-grade businessman. Safe-cracking with
							him was a carefully developed profession, almost as exact as mathematics. He feared no
							living thing; but he took no risk, for the reason that by his method of working with
							the police where possible, and of carefully planning every detail in advance, he had
							eliminated all risk. Hawkins did not rob vaults with jimmies, nitro- glycerin,
							acetylene gas. Hawkins robbed vaults with his business efficiency.
						Clifford gave his dinner order. When he glanced again at Hawkins' table the two empty
							places had been filled. He started. Mr. Hawkins' guests were Joe Russell and Mary
							Regan.
						At once all of Clifford's senses were on the trail. Were these two merely guests of
							Hawkins? Was this merely an informal little dinner party of three aristocrats of
							crime? Or was Joe Russell or Mary Regan in some way involved in the plans of Hawkins?
								 The next instant Clifford remembered something: Years
							ago, "Gentleman Jim" Regan, Mary Regan's father, had been partner in many of Hawkins'
							operations; there had been a rumor that the two had broken off in anger and
							suspicion--and when the cold, patient, vindictive Billy Hawkins severed a partnership
							there was danger for the other man; but the natural death of Gentleman Jim had saved
							him from any stern accounting Hawkins may have been waiting his opportunity to press
							grimly home.
						Undoubtedly, Clifford reasoned, Mary Regan must have known Hawkins from her girlhood
							days. And there were a dozen ways a handsome, quick- witted, cynical girl like Mary
							Regan could aid in the great schemes of such a subtle criminal.
						Clifford rose, intending to slip out unobserved; but Joe Russell sighted him and
							motioned him to their table. Mary Regan gave him a cold nod as he came up; Russell
							took Clifford by the arm.
						"Bob," said the suave Russell, in a baiting tone, "let me present Mr. Phillips. Mr.
							Phillips, this is Mr. Robert Clifford, formerly lieutenant-detective police--'broken'
							by Commissioner Thorne, you know--now a private detective, with offices in--beg
							pardon, Bob, what size hat do you wear?"
						Clifford did not know what was behind Russell's gibing manner, but he assumed its
							kind.

						

						"My office may be only under my hat," he retorted gruffly, "but there are some
							detectives with swell offices who've got under their hats just exactly nothing!"
						"Some comeback that,", said Russell. "Sit down."
						Clifford did so.
						"Russell, since I chanced to meet you and Miss Regan," he continued harshly, but in a
							low voice, "I want to tell you that it's going to be the best thing for you if you
							come right through with what you know about Slant-Face Regan."
						"If this is going to be what I believe you police call the third degree," said Mr.
							Phillips, rising, "I'm sure you'll all excuse me while I make a telephone call."
						Clifford had this bit of satisfaction--he had made Hawkins estimate him as a
							"boob."
						"I intended trying to see you to-night, Miss Regan," Clifford went on, changing to a
							quiet tone, "to give you the latest inside dope on how your brother's case sizes
							up."
						Her cold manner of the previous moment vanished. She leaned toward him eagerly.
						" Yes--yes? " she breathed.
						"Since Slant-Face has been indicted, of course I've got to go through with my end of
							it and take the stand against him. But as for his alleged shooting  of Jennie Malone and that college fellow, Slant-Face
							switched out the lights before the shooting was done; the state can't prove he did the
							shooting; it can only prove that he switched out the lights. And Jennie's standing by
							him, and their intention to get married, that'll weigh an awful lot with the jury. And
							as for the three men who were killed--Biff Farrell, Gipsy Joe and Red Mick were shot
							with each other's guns, and the state can't prove they didn't shoot each other during
							a three-sided quarrel. Besides, the jury will think it a public service to remove
							three such gangsters. As things stand, Slant-Face is sure to beat the case."
						Mary Regan, who had grown very pale, and her uncle gazed silently at Clifford.
						"But how about your ten thousand reward?" queried Russell after a moment. "And your
							reinstatement in the department?"
						"I'll never get either--not out of Slant-Face Regan's case," Clifford returned
							quietly.
						"But you might get one, or both, if you handled your end of it right," said
							Russell.
						Mary Regan caught her breath, in her dark eyes was a subdued glow.
						"I suppose we ought to thank you, Mr. Clifford," she said in a low voice.
						From her intonation Clifford knew that her remark was primarily a question addressed
							to herself.  So he did not answer. Twice before this, in
							crises of their strange acquaintance, she had been stirred and for a moment had seemed
							to believe in him. He continued to gaze at her, and waited--wondering, hoping. As he
							waited, a complex of warring desires, the worldly-wise element in him tried to fight
							down the feeling which this daughter of great crime had awakened in him. Yet at the
							same time that feeling made him want to compel her to believe in him--want to rouse to
							dominance what was best in her. But this end, he knew, could only be achieved by
							masterly adroitness on his part; her proud nature would instantly detect and haughtily
							repel any open attempt to influence her. Clifford was wise enough to know that only
							time and experience could overcome what time and experience and companionship had
							produced.
						The next moment her dark eyes were cold again.
						"We'll save our thanks until we see how it really comes out," she said.
						He recognized that her instinctive distrust of him had resumed its former sway, that
							she suspected him of having some secret motive; some hidden purpose, in his attitude
							toward her brother.
						Well--he must keep on waiting.
						Clifford's mind came back to the great task in hand, and he had an impulse to ask
							Russell about  the doings of Billy Hawkins--for Clifford
							knew that Russell, though professionally his antagonist, respected and liked him. But
							a second thought made him realize that no favor shown him, no skill in the
							questioning, would ever make Joe Russell "give up" anything to the police. It was
							better not to let Russell know his mission and what he suspected.
						"By the way, Bob," said Russell, "what do you think--Mary is going into
							business?"
						"Business?" exclaimed Clifford, and looked at Mary Regan in surprise. "What sort of
							business?"
						"Public stenography," said her uncle.
						"I didn't know you were a stenographer, Miss Regan."
						Mary Regan did not deign to answer.
						"She isn't," said Russell--"at least not much of a one. She's going to open an
							office; she'll just manage things, and have half a dozen experts who'll do the actual
							work. You see, she thinks something of the kind is best for her while the, case of
							Slant-Face is on."
						Mary Regan going into business! There was no opportunity to follow this up, for at
							this moment Clifford saw Hawkins returning among the tables. Clifford rose and said
							good-night. Outside the dining-room he covertly glanced back, Mary Regan  and the cold-faced master-cracksman, leaning toward each
							other, were talking in low voices.
						Again the insistent questions asked themselves: Was Mary Regan involved in Hawkins'
							scheme? And if so, how?
					

					

						III

						What followed was an education, if Clifford needed one, in how a great modern
							safe-man goes about his chosen business. With such a one it is no such simple and
							swiftly dramatic matter as picking your bank, waiting for the first dark night, using
							your "soup" on the safe, and disappearing amid a gun-fight with the deposits. It is
							much more prosaic, and much more effective; an affair in which the least difficult
							item is the actual opening of the vault. The preliminary planning of every detail, the
							elimination of risk from his business just as an up-to-date manufacturer eliminates
							waste--this is what differentiates the finished cracksman from the yegg, who makes his
							precarious livelihood from the childish safes of small postoffices and country stores.
							Hawkins, as Clifford knew, had spent six months planning his great Pittsburg robbery,
							and only two hours in the actual execution-- and had made such a clean get-away that
							there was no evidence connecting him with that affair.
						Clifford had to match patience against patience, 
							caution against caution, wit against wit. First of all, through his lawyer friend,
							Stanley Tarleton, he engaged a private detective agency to cover every move of
							Hawkins, instructing Tarleton to give as explanation, so that the private detectives
							would have no idea of the real value and purpose of the records they turned in, that
							his client was seeking evidence against Hawkins as corespondent in a contemplated
							divorce suit. This surveillance would supply Clifford with details he personally might
							miss.
						Also, Clifford himself began to shadow Hawkins. There were futile days of tailing;
							then one day Hawkins went into the City Building Department. After he had come out,
							Clifford himself entered the department, and by clever questioning, which did not
							reveal his own identity or purpose, learned that Hawkins, as Mr. Peabody, an
							architect, had examined the plans of several great office buildings there on file.
							Clifford thanked the clerk who had served him and walked out with the bustling manner
							of a hurried building contractor. But within him was excitement, and a bit of
							admiration: Hawkins was certainly a thorough worker!
						A few days later Clifford tailed Hawkins to the offices of a great vault-building
							concern. Here Clifford, again entering after Hawkins had gone, learned by presenting
							credentials prepared in advance,  which proved, him a
							banker from New Orleans, and by putting adroit questions, that Hawkins, as Mr. Foster,
							representing big San Francisco banking interests desirous of installing a new vault of
							most modern defensive power, had been shown, as sample specimens of what could be
							done, the plans of several of the strongest vaults in New York.
						Clifford left the offices of the vault concern with the sober manner suitable in a
							banker, and in the hallway he coolly lit a cigar. But once in his waiting taxicab,
							which he swiftly entered after making sure he was not watched, he sat in excited
							thought. Hawkins had considered some score of vaults; and the addresses of the
							buildings in which five of these vaults were located coincided with the addresses of
							five of the score or more of buildings Hawkins had examined in the building
							department. Hawkins had the detailed plans of five great bank buildings; also he had
							the plans of five great vaults.
						Undoubtedly Hawkins had already picked his bank. But which was the bank?
						Who of the many men that had previously worked with Hawkins were working with him
							now?
						Also--and again--where did Mary Regan come in?
						Days of tailing Hawkins and watching the five banks which appeared on both lists
							brought  Clifford nothing further, though he was certain
							that the plans of Hawkins were going carefully forward. In the meantime he had been
							receiving, through Tarleton, daily reports from the detective agency--all valueless.
							Then one day came a report, apparently of the same unimportance to one seeking
							evidence in a suit for divorce, telling of an accidental meeting between Hawkins and
							three men, evidently friends whom he had not seen for some time, at a road-house near
							Yonkers, and their return together to New York in a hired touring car. From the
							descriptions given in the report Clifford recognized the three acquaintances: "Big" Ed
							Johnson, a Houdini at picking locks; and "Splinter" Stilwell and "Dutch" Brown,
							cracksmen of smaller caliber than Hawkins, but both, none the less, what are termed at
							Headquarters as "good safe-men." The car and chauffeur Clifford also set down to be
							part of Hawkins' equipment.
						Clifford would have given a year's pay as lieutenant (if only he were getting it!) to
							have known what those five men discussed on that ride down from Yonkers. The bank? .
							.. Mary Regan? . . .
						The very day on which this report was delivered he entered the Hotel Astor for his
							lunch. At a table alone he saw Mary Regan, in a personal adaptation of the latest mode
							which toned in perfectly  with her dark, reserved,
							supercilious beauty that for Clifford was charged with tantalizing mystery. He crossed
							to her.
						"Miss Regan, do you mind if I share your table?" he asked.
						"If you will wait a few minutes, you may have the whole of it," she said coldly, with
							a glance almost contemptuously brief. "I'm just finishing. I've already asked for my
							check. But do as you like."
						He sat down, grimly but uncomfortably.
						"Where is your uncle? "
						"He doesn't like New York in January. He left a week ago for a month or two in
							Florida. I suppose, as usual, you are doing wonders?"
						Her tone was coldly taunting; always, when they met, her pride prompted her to hurt
							him.
						"Nothing of importance," he said, taking the menu from the waiter to whom she had
							just paid her bill. "How about your public stenography office?"
						"I'm opening it to-morrow. Would you like one of my cards?" From her bag she drew out
							a bit of pasteboard and pushed it toward him across the white cloth. "Perhaps"--her
							voice again was taunting--"when you have a report to make that your own office cannot
							handle, you will deign to patronize me."

						

						Clifford glanced at her card. Only his long schooling in self-control saved him from
							a start. The card read:

						THE MUTUAL STENOGRAPHY CO.
						
							First Mutual
							
							Bank Building --Broadway.
						

						Clifford looked up and steadily met her dark eyes.
						"Certainly--I'll be glad to give you any work I have."
						With a slight nod, which gave him mocking gratitude and good-by, she walked away. He
							gazed after her, his breath held tensely.
						So Mary Regan was in it!
						And the bank was the First Mutual Bank!
						He saw in a flash, and perfectly, her part in the scheme. She was to conduct an
							apparently legitimate business in the Mutual building; that business would be so
							managed as to give Hawkins and his men free and natural entry into the building; and
							that office was to be the basis of inside operations against the bank.
						From that day on, unobserved, Clifford centered his attention on the First Mutual
							Bank. He noted trifles which, if he had not known that this was the bank of Hawkins'
							choice, he never would have noticed and which would have had no significance  to him--trifles which informed him that during every
							minute of the twenty-four hours the minutest detail in the routine of the bank was
							being studied and recorded.
						Also, he kept watch on Mary Regan's office. He had Tarleton send Mary Regan work; he
							had other friends do the same; he had his agents keep the Mutual Stenography Company
							under constant scrutiny. All reports forced the deduction that her office was not only
							busy, but was legitimately so. As the days passed, that phase of the situation began
							to puzzle him: the most careful surveillance of her office, the most careful
							deductions from reports about it, failed to reveal a trace of any slightest connection
							between the office and Hawkins or any of his men.
						Two weeks--three weeks passed; still nothing but legitimate business: people bringing
							in work to be copied, men coming in to dictate. Clifford might have lost patience had
							he not remembered the man with whom he was dealing. It was part of the successful
							Hawkins' system to make every detail seem natural, to rouse no suspicion in advance of
							action. Such a system took time.
						The business of the office developed beyond what could be handled during the usual
							work-day. The fourth week a night-shift was inaugurated to meet the exigency of much
							legal and brokerage work  that admitted of no delay in
							execution. Men came in to give rush dictation or to take away completed work. Then the
							sex of the operators began to change; soon only men typists appeared at night. The
							next development was a night manager: an alert, prompt, efficient young man. Clifford
							secured a snapshot of him; but being a discharged officer, Clifford did not have
							personal access to the records at Headquarters. So he sent the photograph to
							Commissioner Thorne.
						,When Thorne's report on the photograph came to him, Clifford felt that at last he
							knew all the cards in Hawkins' hand and knew how Hawkins was going to play them; that
							at last he understood everything.
						Everything, that is, except Mary Regan. The detective in him was expectantly
							exultant, but the man in him was sick over a young woman of such quality--though as
							yet he had no definite assay of her worth--allying herself with a ruthless villain
							like Billy Hawkins. Against his fears and his better judgment and all the growing
							facts in the case, he had persisted in hoping for something better than this from her.
							Her course could only be explained by her lawless Regan blood.
						Well--Mary Regan, or no Mary Regan, he had now to see the matter through.

					

					

					

						IV

						Mr. James Anderson, president of the First Mutual Bank, greeted Clifford with that
							neutral dignity which financiers have as part of their equipment for use upon
							strangers who penetrate to their presence. This neutral manner makes easy a
							transformation to warmth or chilly negation, when the financial desirability or
							undesirability of their caller is unfolded.
						Mr. Anderson started to glance perfunctorily through the letter Clifford handed him.
							Then his glasses tumbled from his nose, and he stared short-sightedly at Clifford.
						"What's this mean? No--wait! I'll take this letter at its word. I know Commissioner
							Thorne."
						The next moment he was speaking into his telephone.
						"Is this Commissioner Thorne? Yes. Just one moment." He placed his glasses and
							referred to the letter, which contained a few code phrases-- devised for the benefit
							of the score of switchboard operators at Headquarters through whom so many intended
							police secrets find swift passage to intended police victims. "This is Peter Jackson
							talking. . . . Yes, yes, feeling fine, Commissioner. A Mr. Hardy, Edward Hardy, has
							applied to me for position as manager of my dairy farm. He  says he knows you. Can you recommend him? . . . Yes, yes--thank you very
							much."
						The florid executive hung up, and pushed a pad across the great glass-topped desk to
							Clifford. "Sign your name on that, please." When Clifford had done so, his expert eyes
							compared the signature on the pad with a sample signature on Commissioner Thorne's
							letter.
						"The Commissioner says I can trust you to the limit, and your identification checks
							up." Mr. Anderson's manner had changed to that bankerly benignity which is a forecast
							of pleasant weather to one desirous of making a loan. "And now, Mr. Clifford, what can
							I do for you?"
						"You can let me do something for you," said Clifford.
						"What's that!" The banker suddenly lost his professional blandness.
						"I believe that when the First Mutual closes this afternoon you will have on hand,
							what with the deposit made to-day with you by the Sub-Treasury, the largest amount of
							any day this month--close on half a million, cash."
						"Yes, to-day is our regular monthly maximum. But see here--what are you driving
							at?"
						"At this: it's one hundred to one that the First Mutual Bank will be robbed
							to-night."
						"The First Mutual--robbed!"

						

						Mr. James Anderson slumped back, his full face suddenly gray and loose, his pop-eyes
							staring. The next moment he had recovered, and was smiling.
						"My dear sir, you are altogether absurd! Break into the First Mutual--it is
							impossible! We have the strongest vault in America; our burglar wiring is perfect;
							besides, our watchman--"
						"My dear sir," interrupted Clifford, "the man who plans to rob the First Mutual knows
							your vault, your wiring, your whole building, the routine of your night watchman, as
							well as you know them. He knows the exact intervals at which the watchman punches the
							time clock; he knows the exact habits of all the policemen stationed hereabout; he
							knows the habits of every important person connected with the bank. As a matter of
							fact, Mr. Anderson, the gentleman I have in mind could undoubtedly give you a lot of
							altogether new information about the First Mutual."
						The banker again was staring, pop-eyed, at his visitor.
						"You forget, Mr. Anderson," continued Clifford, "that as the powers of defense
							increase, the powers of destruction also develop, and sometimes the latter develop
							more rapidly. The superdreadnought seemed indestructible--until the submarine came
							along. You think you have a super-vault downstairs,  but
							to this super-cracksman it is about as impregnable as a can of sardines."
						Mr. Anderson sprang up.
						"If that's true, I'll notify the Commissioner and have a police guard here at once,
							and keep it here day and night! "
						"That's exactly what we don't want. We want to let the gang rob your bank."
						"Let them rob the First Mutual!"
						Mr. Anderson collapsed. The idea was preposterous beyond belief.
						"Exactly," said Clifford calmly. "We have suspicions, big suspicions. we've got to
							have evidence, and to get evidence against this mob we've got to catch them in the
							act."
						"Do you think, as the chief official of this institution," exploded Mr. Anderson,
							"I'll ever consent to its being robbed!" His manner became more calm, but was no less
							dignified. "Besides, think of the loss of confidence in our reliability such an event
							would bring about!"
						"There's another side to that matter, Mr. Anderson," said Clifford. "Think of the
							increased confidence the public will have in you, when the public learns, as it will,
							that you were so watchful of the interests of the bank that you knew in advance all
							about the scheme against it and were prepared. Further, think of the general service
							you will be  rendering in helping apprehend men who are
							a menace to all the public. And further, think of the valuable publicity--sensational,
							but at the same time dignified publicity."
						Mr. Anderson gazed at Thorne's letter--gazed at Clifford--considered. Clifford had
							judged him aright: heavy, conservative, but with a secret liking for what the
							newspapers might say.
						"Very well, Mr. Clifford," the banker conceded impressively. "The First Mutual will
							coperate in all ways possible."

					

					

						V

						The darkness up there in the balcony, where the executive offices were located, was
							like the center of a can of black paint; the silence was as that of the heart of
							infinite space. Noiselessly, Clifford stood at the crack of the door of the
							president's office. His senses could perceive nothing at all. Then again he heard a
							soft, regular pad-pad upon the marble pavement below: the rubber-soled night-watchman
							making his regular rounds.
						Clifford held his tiny flash almost against the crystal of his watch. Close on twelve
							o'clock. Something would soon begin to happen.
						While he stood there in the blackness Clifford felt no such confidence as he had
							expressed to the bank's president. Eight hours of solitary waiting (he  had entered the bank as an extra cleaner, and slipped
							unnoticed up to this hiding place) had given him time to consider the risks he had
							assumed. Hawkins, of course, never added an unnecessary crime to his burglaries; but
							perhaps Clifford had miscalculated some detail of Hawkins' plans, perhaps there might
							be a slip-up--and Hawkins, if cornered, and given a desperate chance, was swift and
							merciless. And then there was Bradley, whom Clifford had never for a moment omitted
							from his calculations; there was the chance that, in some unguessable way, the
							infinitely wary and powerful Bradley might be an immediate danger, too.
						Thorne had urged that a squad of several officers be hidden in the bank; but Clifford
							lad finally brought the Commissioner around to the present plan by arguing that any
							attempt to introduce several officers would arouse suspicion and frighten Hawkins off.
							But this argument did not represent the whole of Clifford's reason for wanting to be
							in the bank alone. His great desire, grown during the last day to be his dominating
							purpose in this case, was to try to find out, for himself, before any other persons
							knew, just what was Mary Regan's share in this gigantic robbery. The case looked black
							for Mary Regan. But he wanted to know--for certain.

						

						Clifford slipped down the stairway and crouched on its first landing. From this point
							he could see the grilled interior of the huge marble chamber, illumined from the
							street lamps and from the one electric light at the bank's front. That is, illumined
							with certain exceptions. The stairway and its foot were in a shadow, created by a
							jutting angle of the wall. At Clifford's left the shadow deepened into blackness, and
							here he knew was a side door opening into the bank from the general hallway of the
							building. Behind the balcony stairway, and also in shadow, was the entrance of the
							stairway which led down into the vault.
						The night-watchman, whom Clifford from his dusk-protected crouching-place could make
							out to be a strongly built body, a grayish uniform and cap, and a heavy mustache, went
							pad-padding across the bank's pavement as he had done mechanically every hour for the
							last twenty years and inserted a key in his watchman's box. In the office of the
							burglary protective company flashed the signal that all was well.
						The night-watchman twisted at his mustache--this in previous observations of the
							guard Clifford had noted to be a habit--saluted a snow-drifted policeman without as he
							passed the grated windows, and disappeared into the darkness behind the stairway where
							was a chair for his occasional rest.

						

						Clifford strained to hear faint expected sounds off left where was the side door
							through which, if he had deduced correctly, Hawkins and his confederates would enter.
							He could hear nothing. But big Ed Johnson could handle the most difficult lock almost
							as noiselessly and easily as by the utterance of a magic word. Perhaps even then Big
							Ed was working silently outside.
						iMinutes passed. Clifford's excited imagination saw the complete details of what
							might now be passing: two "lookouts," posted near the bank to give warning of
							danger--a big automobile, stalled in a side street, its chauffeur struggling with a
							hopelessly refractory engine; but which engine would become instantly docile and
							active when the time came for the "get-away"--and outside, in the dark hallway,
							crouching low, Hawkins and his three confederates who were to do the actual job, Big
							Ed's swift surgeon's fingers probing at the lock.
						And Mary Regan--where was she, what was she doing? . . .
						More minutes throbbed away. Without, two drunken marines appeared, having cruised far
							out of the ordinary track of revelry, and sang in the joyous abandon of disciplined
							fighters when on shore-leave. The policeman stopped them; there was a debate. The bank
							watchman went forward to the window and gazed at this interesting interruption  of his night's routine. Presently the sailors were
							induced to move quietly on, and the watchman recrossed to the dark area behind the
							stairway.
						Thus far Clifford had not heard a sound within the bank itself except the watchman's
							rubber tread. But now, as the watchman passed into the darkened area, he heard a gasp,
							a gurgle, the scuffle of a brief struggle--then silence again. Though he saw nothing,
							Clifford knew that the watchman had been gagged and tied up; knew that the hilarious
							marines had been a "stall" to distract the watchman, and cover any inadvertent sounds,
							while Hawkins and his confederates had made their entry.
						Silence again. Then from out of the darkness sauntered a strongly built figure, in
							grayish uniform and cap. He pulled characteristically at his heavy mustache; yawned;
							saluted the policeman who again appeared outside. Then he turned the key of the
							time-clock--and once more, in the offlce of the burglary protective agency, a buzzer
							announced that all was well at the First Mutual.
						Clifford hardly breathed in his excitement. Thus far everything had been done, and
							was now being done, exactly as he had calculated. Hawkins, this moment, was already at
							swift work upon the vault below; and Big Ed Johnson, in his uniform prepared in
							advance, made a perfect and reassuring fac-simile of the regular watchman, as he stood
								 there in the full light, stroking his big false
							mustache.
						Clifford, rehearsing to get correctness of manner, stroked the big false mustache on
							his own upper lip, and pulled his watchman's cap a little farther down.
						Noiselessly he crept back up the balcony stairway and into the blackness of the
							president's office. Groping, he found the telephone. The wire had been open all
							evening; six blocks away, in a dark room, sat Commissioner Thorne, on his head a
							telephone operator's helmet.
						"Hello, Commissioner," whispered Clifford.
						"That you, Clifford?" came back over the wire.
						"Yes. The mob 's here and at work. They got in through the side door."
						"I'll be over with a squad in ten minutes."
						Clifford slipped down the stairway. He had practically done his duty to Thorne. The
							law was the same as served. Within the next ten minutes he had to do what was now for
							him the great business of the night--to learn about Mary Regan. Earlier in the evening
							he had had a report over the open wire that she was in her apartment. But what was she
							going to do next?--where did she fit in?
						He waited, crouching at the stairway's foot until Big Ed again passed out into the
							lighted area of  the bank. Then Clifford ducked swiftly
							around into the darkness behind the stairway and pressed himself in a corner of the
							wall. He stood, hardly breathing, waiting his chance for the next move in his plan--in
							his left hand a handkerchief, in his right a wide-necked little bottle stoppered with
							his thumb.
						Big Ed sauntered back into the shadow and stood over the dim prostrate form of the
							bank's guardian. There was one moment when the three night-watchmen, each a duplicate
							of the other, were not three feet apart.
						"You poor boob," Big Ed laughed low, satirically--"watching all this loot for
							eighteen iron men per week. But just to show there's no hard feelings, Jack, have a
							drink on us."
						Big Ed stooped as if to thrust a coin into th clothes of the prostrate man. This was
							Clifford's chance. He dashed the contents of the bottle into the handkerchief, flung
							himself on Big Ed from behind, and clamped the dripping handkerchief against Ed's
							mouth and nose. Big Ed jabbed backwards with his elbows, swung viciously over his
							shoulders at Clifford's head; many of the blows landed and pained frightfully, but
							Clifford held the anesthetizer into place with an embrace of steel.
						The pair swayed about in their struggle--noiseless because both were rubber-soled.
							Once they  swung out into the light, but the next
							instant Clifford had dragged his captive back into the shadow. With a final burst of
							energy Big Ed tried to break the grip upon him. After that his struggles began to
							weaken; in another moment his body was an inert weight. Clifford let him slide to the
							pavement, and for security's sake he handcuffed the cracksman's hands behind his back
							and left the saturated handkerchief upon his face.
						Then, making sure that cap, uniform and mustache were all in order, Clifford crept
							softly down the stairway leading into the vault.

					

					

						VI

						The dungeon of steel and concrete, down in the remote stillness of the earth, was
							ablaze with its own electric light. His footsteps unheard, Clifford stood within the
							shadow at the entrance, and for a moment gazed across the chamber at the swift
							dexterity of the three men in front of the massive door of the vault.
						Hawkins, as a great surgeon might prepare for a major operation, was chalking a line
							around the combination. At his side were two little steel tanks, connected up with
							flexible steel tubing. Stilwell was at the little tank which Clifford knew contained
							acetylene gas; Brown was in charge of the tank of oxygen. Already Stilwell had turned
								 on the acetylene, and from the nozzle which held
							spurted a white flame. Slowly Brown turned on the oxygen; in the "mixer" it joined the
							acetylene; the pair regulated, tested--and gradually the flame of the torch changed
							from white to blue.
						Five thousand degrees of heat, that was what Clifford knew the blue fang of fire
							would have attained when the pair had it in readiness. And when applied along the
							chalk marks with which Hawkins was outlining the vital organs of the lock, he knew
							that that knife of flame could carve through the armor-plate of the heavy door as
							easily as a kitchen knife could cut the plug out of a watermelon.
						Clifford moved a pace nearer, but still remained in the semi-shadow. His heart pumped
							wildly. Would the men recognize that in him was yet a third night-watchman?
						"Everything going all right, Billy?" he asked in a muffled whisper.
						Hawkins turned; his thin face was tense with the task before him.
						"Fine as silk, Ed," Hawkins answered, and resumed drawing his white outline upon the
							vault door.
						Clifford had passed muster. Now for the matter that had made him so arrange his
							scheme that for a few moments at least he would be accepted by  these men as one of them. His next remark had to be a hazard; but as he
							spoke he had his hand on the automatic in his side pocket.
						"Wonder what Mary Regan's doing now, Billy?"
						"Sleeping a sleep that I hope will last till eight to-morrow," said Hawkins.
						That brief answer was as a new light turned on in Clifford's mind. He was silent a
							moment, considering the undreamed-of possibility revealed to him. When he spoke again
							he tried to speak casually--though he knew he was again venturing into waters sowed
							with mines.
						"You certainly are slipping it across on the Regan woman in great shape, Billy."
						"I've had to wait years for it," said Hawkins, coldly exultant. "But I guess after
							this nobody'll ever think they can throw me down and get away with it. Her father
							tried it--just once!"
						"But since Gentleman Jim died and beat you out of it--" Clifford led him on.
						"He's got to pay through his family--and by God, his family is paying all right!"
						Clifford endeavored to put uneasiness into his tone.
						"Mary Regan's a clever girl, Billy, and I'm still afraid she may take a tumble."
						"I've told you she doesn't suspect a thing," said 
							Hawkins sharply, barely veiling his contempt for the lack of nerve of his supposed
							first lieutenant "She thinks she's been running a perfectly straight office."
						It was with difficulty that Clifford forced a gleeful chuckle.
						"You sure have framed her for fair, Billy. After we've blown, she'll be pinched as an
							accomplice; the police'll say she was running that office just to give us a chance to
							get into the bank. And after her own record, and her father's record, and Joe
							Russell's record, and her knowing you, and the looks of the whole scheme--why, her
							denial won't be worth a damn! She'll be sent away for God knows how many years. Billy,
							you've certainly done her up great!"
						" Nobody'll ever try to throw me down again!" Hawkins repeated with triumphant
							grimness.
						His swift diagramming done, Hawkins put the chalk in his pocket, drew on heavy
							gauntlets, and pulled over his head a goggled hood like a diver's helmet--protection
							against the heat and the sparks of consuming steel.
						"Give me the torch, boys," he ordered sharply. "And you, Ed, better get back upstairs
							and punch that time clock."
						Clifford trembled with two great feelings: amazement at the ruthless, unforgetting
							vindictivenes of  this man, and a surging desire to
							shoot him down as he reached for the torch of blue flame.
						"Hawkins," Clifford said sharply, in his full-toned natural voice, and he stepped out
							in the light toward them, "I guess you'll be stopping work on that vault right
							now."
						Hawkins and the two others whirled about and found Clifford's black automatic upon
							them. Hawkins jerked off his hood; his lean mask of a face was now contorted in savage
							bewilderment.
						"If any of you three make a move for your guns, it'll be a job for the coroner," said
							Clifford. "Hawkins, I guess you'll not turn that trick on Mary Regan. When this case
							comes to trial I'll take the stand and swear to what you've just told me about your
							plan to frame her."
						"Who the devil are you?" choked out Hawkins.
						"I'm not Big Ed; that's enough for you to know just now. he's upstairs, handcuffed
							and doped, beside the other watchman."
						The master safe-man, caught at last, glared at Clifford, barely able to hold in his
							vicious, convulsive, impotent rage. Clifford kept his automatic trained upon the three
							and waited. Thorne and his squad were due in a very few minutes now.
						The next moment footsteps sounded behind him on the stairway--rather sooner than
							Clifford had calculated.

						

						"I've got them, Chief," he said, the covering of "his prisoners not permitting him to
							turn. "Just put the cuffs on them."
						"Say, what the hell--!"
						The voice that thus ejaculated was a heavy bass--not at all the friendly voice
							Clifford had expected. Startled, Clifford looked sharply about. At the foot of the
							stairway was Chief of Detectives Bradley.
						In the instant that Clifford stood dumfounded, off guard, Hawkins and the two other
							men leaped upon him. The automatic was wrenched from him, hands clutched his throat.
							Even during his surprise, and while he struggled fiercely, Clifford guessed at how
							Bradley came to be here. Bradley, in full knowledge of what was happening and with
							Hawkins' consent, had from some dark window across the street also been "covering" the
							robbery, his purpose being, if there was any serious slip-up in the consummation of
							Hawkins' plan, to rush in himself and have the glory of making a spectacular
							arrest--and as for Hawkins, if arrest were inevitable, Hawkins would prefer that it
							should be made by Bradley. Bradley must have glimpsed him and Big Ed during the
							instant they had struggled in the light.
						Clifford felt the life being strangled out of him; a blow from his pistol butt aimed
							at his head laid 
							

								"Hawkins," Clifford said sharply, "I guess you'll be stopping work on that vault right now"

							
							
							 open his cheek and fell heavily upon his shoulder. But
							even as he fought these three silent determined men for his life, even as he burned
							with the chagrin of this unexpected defeat, he was conscious of Bradley standing
							motionless in the entrance of the vault-room, his square powerful face alight with
							malignant triumph; and he was vividly conscious of what was passing in Bradley's mind.
							Bradley could say, if developments compelled him to report the matter, that when he
							arrived Clifford was already done for; or he could say that he had seen the struggle
							and, not recognizing Clifford in this make-up, had naturally supposed the three had
							turned upon one of their confederates. And no person would challenge his
							statements.
						Clifford realized, as one blow half dazed him, that he had lost. The next blow, or
							the next, would be his end. This was Bradley's hour--Bradley's triumph. By just
							keeping his hands off, by merely doing nothing at all, Bradley was getting rid of his
							worst enemy.
						And Clifford realized, if he were done away with, that his testimony would die with
							him--that Mary Regan would surely go to prison. . . .
						He struggled wildly, with weakening power. The pistol butt found his head again. All
							seemed up . . . Then his dazed senses thought they discerned other footsteps
							descending into the vault.  And that same instant his
							blurring vision was amazed to see Bradley spring forward, his pistol drawn.
						"Put up your mitts!" savagely cried Bradley.
						The three cracksmen fell away and their hands went up. The next moment Clifford saw
							Commissioner Thorne step into the vault.

						"You understand, Clifford," Thorne said half an hour later when they were alone,
							"that though I had to accept Bradley's statement about the coincidence of all of us
							having been at work on the same job, and though I had to praise Bradley for making the
							arrest, and had to praise him, too, for intervening just in time to save your life--I
							want you to understand that I wasn't fooled for a minute, and that I recognize that
							you're the man responsible for to-night's arrests, and that I'm setting you down in my
							mind for a big reward when your day comes."
						Clifford mumbled something, intended to be thanks. His aching head was not then
							thinking of rewards. It was thinking of Mary Regan.

					

				

				

				

					V

					THE GORDON MASTERPIECES

					

						I

						CLIFFORD, from his screen of palms at the intersection of the two
							great corridors, intently watched the door of the ladies' dressing-room. When at
							length Mary Regan emerged, minus her long evening coat of rose velvet, his eyes went
							first to her hands. Instead of having left her gold mounted, rose-velvet bag with her
							coat, she carried it under a bare rounded elbow. There was to be no chance for him, as
							he had hoped, to abstract that bag from the dressing-room and make a swift examination
							of its contents.
						His gaze then took in the whole of her as she moved down the corridor toward him.
							When she had entered the hotel with the three gentlemen of her party the coat had
							hidden all but her face. He now saw that her evening gown, with its shoulder-straps of
							twined rosebuds, was girlish in its modesty; was suggestive of a siheftered
							unsophisticated nineteen. And her oval face seemed as navely  girlish as her dress. But not quite--as Clifford noted as she drew nearer;
							there was angered purpose in her dark eyes.
						When she came even with him, she paused and looked directly at the palms behind which
							he stood.
						"Mr. Clifford!" she said imperatively.
						For a moment Clifford wavered in confusion. iUntil then she had given no sign that
							she had known of his presence.
						"Mr. Clifford!" she repeated.
						He stepped out. Her gaze met his squarely. There was nothing now of nave nineteen in
							her manner.
						"You have been following me!" she accused.
						Caution, the desire for success, urged Clifford to answer with assumed surprise at
							seeing her and with denial; for when, a few hours before, he had learned that Mary
							Regan and Joe Russell were back from Florida--where she had gone with her uncle
							immediately after Slant-Face's acquittal--he and Commissioner Thorne had agreed that
							if Russell should again attempt to do business it would mean that this prince of
							swindlers had made his peace with Bradley, and that there might be a chance of
							catching the shrewd Chief of Detectives in whatever deal might be afoot. But again the
							impulse to save this girl from herself rose superior to Clifford's official
							purpose.

						

						"Yes, I have been following you," he said quietly. "I had hoped that you had decided
							it wasn't worth while, what you've been doing."
						"I have at least decided that I do not need you as a hired conscience!" she flung
							back at him. "And I shall be grateful to you if you do not try to accompany me in that
							capacity."
						The sting in her words brought the blood to his face. He perceived that this
							straight, flame-eyed young creature had rebounded from those softer, almost gracious
							moods and half-intentions which their previous encounters had twice or thrice brought
							upon her; and he guessed that, in her wilful pride, she had been resentful at herself
							for having even momentarily been near yielding to the strange new impulses which he
							had adroitly stirred within her. For the present, at least, her creed of immature
							cynicism was as dominant as when he had first met her.
						"You helped my brother," she went on coldly--"you saved me from being Hawkins' dupe
							in that bank robbery--and I thank you. I don't know your exact reasons--but it is
							clear you acted as you did because the course you took would best serve you."
						"I desired to be your friend," said Clifford.
						"No one else, as far as my knowledge goes, shares that desire!"

						

						With which, not once looking back at him, she swept on and into the restaurant.
						For a moment Clifford stood abashed; then grimly he mounted a little stairway and
							stepped out upon a narrow balcony, set with tables, which ringed the great
							dining-room. He slipped to a table which had beside it the usual tub of palms, and
							peered cautiously down.
						Mary Regan was now seated at a table with her uncle, Joe Russell, and the two other
							men. The latter were known to him by sight and reputation. One was big of frame and
							heavy of flesh, with florid, flaccid, autocratic, predatory face--Henry Gordon,
							Western coal operator, object of legislative investigations, and chief target at
							present of that public-spirited organization, The National Social Research Society,
							and also just now defiant fugitive from public opinion. The other was small,
							sharp-eyed, of an energetic pulpiness: Jenkins by name, a few years before the
							amazingly successful press-agent of that amazingly successful musical comedy, "Look
							Who's Here!" (those present were mostly girls in clothes that were mostly absent), now
							risen in the world by aggressive climbing to be confidential secretary to Gordon.
						The change of Mary Regan to an ingenue of nineteen did not puzzle Clifford more than
							the change in Joe Russell. That master sharper, who 
							usually dressed in a quiet version of the very latest mode, was in an evening coat of
							forgotten cut, though its fit was excellent, with white tie that was almost a stock,
							and wore black-ribboned glasses with a blinking short-sighted air. He looked an
							absent-minded, unworldly, rather negligible old-fashioned gentleman of high
							breeding.
						What was this pair, whom till that evening he had not seen for more than a month, up
							to now? Clifford asked himself. Certainly Joe Russell was playing his rle well--and
							so was Mary Regan!
						Clifford slipped from the balcony and down into a little office where patient Billy
							Dempsey sat waiting him.
						"Find the house detective, Billy, and have the waiter on Joe Russell's table changed;
							have Fishhook Morton assigned the table. And have Morton sent to me here."
						Five minutes later a lean shifty-eyed man, in a waiter's evening clothes, entered the
							little office. An ex-pickpocket, he was now a "stool" for the Police Department--one
							of the hundreds of such that the Department has planted in all sorts of public places.
							Clifford's instructions were brief.
						"Bring the young woman's aug lying on the table. And find out who the people
							are."
						Clifford followed Morton out and resumed his place in the balcony. He could see that
							Morton,  while deftly serving the dinner, was getting
							every word of the conversation of the four, and presently he saw Morton, while
							removing a course, drop a napkin over the rose-velvet bag. Clifford waited for no
							more, but hurried back to the office; he knew that Morton, somehow, would get the bag
							out of the room with the dishes.
						The door of the office silently opened, and Morton silently entered and handed him
							Mary Regan's bag. Clifford opened it. "Good!" he exclaimed, as he drew out a bunch of
							keys. In a moment he took an impression in wax of each key, and had the keys back in
							the bag. This he returned to Morton. "Get the bag back on the table so they'll not
							suspect," he ordered. "And now, what did you learn?"
						Morton reported that the elderly gentleman in the glasses was a New Yorker named
							Bingham; that the girl was his daughter; that Bingham,, while at a Palm Beach hotel,
							had met Gordon and Jenkins; that later he had been joined by Miss Bingham who was
							taking a holiday from her finishing school; that Mr. Bingham and his daughter, driven
							northward by the approach of May, had just returned to New York, and that Gordon had
							changed his plans and accompanied them.
						Morton glided out.
						"Here, Billy, get these keys made--quick!"  ordered
							Clifford, handing Dempsey the wax impressions.
						He slipped again up to his balcony table, and saw Morton seemingly hick up the bag
							from the floor and be thanked for the service. He continued watching the quartette.
							Yes, they were playing their parts well, Russell and Mary Regan--particularly Mary
							Regan. She was doing the young girl altogether too well to suit Clifford; he stiffened
							with anger every time the gross, indulgence-seamed face of Gordon smiled upon her.
						But what was their game? It was big!--he guessed that. And from the self-effacement
							of that vital figure, Job Russell, and the way Gordon looked at Mary Regan, he knew
							that, whatever tie game might be, Mary Regan had been and was its central
							character.

					

					

						II

						An hour later Clifford paused outside the house into which that unworldly gentleman
							of middle age, Joseph Russell, had just admitted himself, Mary Regan, Mr. Gordon and
							Mr. Jenkins. The house was just off lower Fifth Avenue near Washington Square: a
							neighborhood where a diminishing fragment of an eclipsed but solid and still honored
							aristocracy seeks vainly to withstand the uptown migration of society--some families
							so inactive  socially, and so distinctly of a previous
							generation, that to-day's public which so loves its society news never even hears of
							their existence.
						For a moment Clifford was astounded to see the house entered by this quartette.
							Clifford knew the place; often he had been summoned there to give private and fuller
							information on some case to its owner, Judge Emerson. Then he recalled one of those
							trifles of information which it was his business to file away in his memory: Judge
							Emerson, recently and very unexpectedly appointed to the Supreme Bench of the state,
							had with his family taken quarters in a hotel in Albany and had sublet the house
							furnished. For Russell to have secured it through a broker, must have been a simple
							business for that astute and plausible gentleman.
						Clifford perceived that this much of the plan--whatever the plan might be!--had been
							executed with Russell's usual consummate skill. The very house conferred upon the
							occupant such a standing that no stranger in New York would ever dream of doubting its
							validity; and at the same time, the house and its neighborhood so definitely implied a
							forgotten aristocracy, that no stranger would ever be stirred to wonderment (and
							thence to inquiry) that he had never heard the name of this old family.
						Clifford had to know what was going on with that staid old mansion. He mounted the
							stoop and  inserted the latch-key which Dempsey had
							furnished him from the wax plates and slipped inside. He found himself in a lighted
							lower hall, whose wood-work was all old mahogany and whose walls were covered with a
							rich dark tapestry. No servant was in sight, so he started cautiously up the broad
							stairway.
						Half way up he heard dim voices. He halted and stood listening and looking about. On
							the floor just above him, to the right of the stairway, were the front and rear
							drawing-rooms, and to the left was the great dining-room. Jutting from the rear
							drawing-room out into the magnificent well of the stairway was a little balcony, an
							idiosyncrasy of some long-dead architect, and over the railing of this hung a
							Kirmanshah prayer-rug. Giving upon the balcony was a French door hung with rich heavy
							draperies.
						The voices were issuing from the rear drawing-room. The next moment Clifford was
							crouched low within that swallow's nest of a balcony. He could now plainly hear the
							conversation; just at present it followed the track of routine pleasantries between
							host and guests. He peeped through the slit between the hangings. There sat Joe
							Russell, his manner of the unworldly courtly gentleman giving distinction to and
							taking distinction from this old drawing-room. In like degree, Mary Regan  seemed indubitably to "belong" in this setting; to be a
							part of all the solid aristocracy that this stage implied. Neither of the pair
							over-acted; they let the setting and situation work their effects. And Clifford could
							see that Gordon, who had crushed his way upwards from nothing, was impressed by this
							unassuming grandeur which seemed always to have been in this family; and he could see
							that the cunning, pop-eyed climber of a secretary was accepting with suppressed
							enthusiasm this elaborate play as one of the most notable realities of his career.
						There was a grand piano in the room, and it was the secretary who put the request
							that Mary play or sing. She refused, and Clifford now noted in her manner coldness and
							hostility toward the two--and he sensed that her hostility was real. Gordon, then
							Russell, pressed her, and with elegant indifference she yielded.
						As she seated herself on the piano bench, Clifford wondered what was going to happen,
							whether she would fumble through some composition, or whether she would display a few
							meretricious and easily-acquired tricks of a school-girl. She began--and she did
							neither. For the moment Clifford forgot his purpose there in this revelation of a new
							phase of Mary Regan; for however phony her pretensions might be, there was nothing
							phony about  her playing. She played Chopin--two
							nocturnes and the Ballade in G Minor; then coldly refusing demands for more, she left
							the piano.
						"I say," exclaimed the secretary, who whenever excited slipped into his native
							inelegancies, "Miss Bingham, you're a winner at the piano! You've got a lot of
							professionals I've heard beat a mile!"
						"Thank you," Mary Regan said shortly.
						Joe Russell was too alert to permit the manner of Mary Regan beget an awkward
							situation.
						"Yes, my daughter worked for a year with Herr Bloempot in Vienna"--Clifford did not
							now doubt the essential truth of this statement--"and he said she could become one of
							the best. But a public career--neither my daughter nor I wished it." Russell
							arose--the fine-mannered old aristocrat--and smiled apologetically. "You will remember
							that I made it a condition of my acceptance of your invitation to that midnight
							theater, that I should have a chance to rest up a bit. I can't stand what you younger
							people can. So you'll excuse me for a little while."
						He went out, passed within arm's reach of Clifford and walked back into the
							dining-room. Clifford wondered what Russell was doing there, and was wondering whether
							he should not try to learn--when, to his surprise, Russell returned and re-entered the
							drawing-room.

						

						"Pardon me," he heard Russell say--"but, Mary, some one wants to speak to you on the
							telephone."
						The two excused themselves, and Russell led Mary Regan back and through the curtained
							entrance of the dining-room--in which, Clifford was certain, there was no phone. What
							passed between these two might prove the key to this whole affair. Clifford stepped
							across the three-foot chasm between the balcony and the flooring of the hallway, and
							silently followed. The curtains of the doorway were too insecure a screen for his
							enterprise; but at his left he saw another door. An entrance to the butler's pantry,
							he surmised; and as no dinner had been served in the house that night, the pantry
							would doubtless be empty of servants.
						He stepped in and noiselessly closed the door behind him. The little room was black,
							save where thin slices of light from the dining-room outlined the service door. He
							moved across to this. He could see almost nothing; but, as he had hoped, he could hear
							distinctly. Russell was speaking; and his voice was not the pleasant voice of the
							unworldly gentleman of the old school; though low, it was sharp and vibrant with
							rebuke.
						"See here, Mary, it'll not do, the cool way you're treating Gordon! You'll queer
							everything!"

						

						And Mary's voice was not that of the ingenue who had just left the drawing-room.
						"I hate that man--with his gross, calculating face! I simply can't stand him!"
						"All the more reason that you should trim him," urged Joe Russell. "All the more
							reason for seeing this thing through--and doing it quickly, by not making any
							mistakes. we've got him where we can clean up in a few more days."
						"A few more days!" she cried. "I tell you I can't stand him one more day! Don't
							forget what he suggested to me--that ugly, oily beast! An apartment of my own
							choice--or travel with him wherever it pleased me--"
						"But, Mary," Russell said appeasingly, "Gordon has suggested the same thing to God
							knows how many women, and most of them have accepted, and he's got the habit of
							thinking that every woman--"
						"That doesn't make any sweeter the fact that the fat beast suggested it to me!" she
							stormed at him.
						"But later he apologized--"
						"Yes--after he discovered that I was the aristocratic Mary Bingham! It's no use,
							Uncle Joe. I'm through!"
						There was a brief pause. Then Russell spoke abruptly.

						

						"Mary--is this because of anything Bob Clifford has done or said?"
						"Mr. Clifford counts for nothing with me!"
						"I'm not so sure of that." Another pause. "Mary--Bob Clifford is nice enough for a
							detective; he's square, and I respect him for that. But a cop that's honest, where
							does he ever get to? Exactly nowhere! Please remember that."
						"And you please remember," she retorted stiffly, "that I have said that Mr. Clifford
							has nothing to. do with it!"
						"Then listen to some plain common sense," he urged persuasively. "Up to now, you've
							done this whole thing. I could never have roped Gordon in and strung him along if it
							hadn't been fob you: pretty women, that's what Gordon falls for. you've stuck the
							thing through for a month; you've got him to the point where he's all ready to fall
							for our game--and only you can put the game across. A few more days and we make our
							clean-up--then good-by to Mr. Gordon."
						She made no answer.
						"After having stood him so long, Mary," he went on, "after having the job practically
							finished--doesn't it seem to you as the limit of foolishness to chuck the affair, and
							chuck a fortune? At least, Mary, you might consider my end of it."
						Again she remained silent. Clifford, at the  service
							door, waited breathless for her reply. It came in a mechanical, bored voice.
						"All right, Uncle Joe."
						"Good for you, Mary! Now go on back to him. you've got him worked up until he's
							ripe--tonight's your big chance to put the thing across. And, Mary--talk right, and
							those two clever birds will do all the suggesting, all the leading. Mark my
							word--they'll fall for it the very minute you mention pictures!"
						Clifford heard Mary Regan's footsteps pass out and die along the hallway. A moment
							later the aroma of a most excellent cigar drifted in to him from the dining-room; and
							he knew that that fine, unworldly old aristocrat, Joe Russell, would not move until
							the next scene in his carefully planned drama had been concluded in the
							drawing-room.
						Clifford's nerves twanged triumphantly. Pictures--that was Russell's game!--for that
							he had been patiently playing this part, and had set this elaborate stage. Pictures
							had been one of Clifford's many guesses; for no man in America had done more to aid
							dead masters to increase their output of paintings, or given more aid to uncritical
							millionaires in their search for purchasable insignia of culture.
						Softly, swiftly, Clifford slipped back toward the little balcony.

					

					

					

						III

						The trio within the drawing-room, seated with Mary Regan as their center, had been
							talking for a minute or more when Clifford regained his balcony. The first words he
							heard were from Gordon, and were heavily solicitous.
						"Miss Bingham, you have--er--seemed depressed all evening. Won't you tell me what it
							is?--please?"
						"I am quite myself, Mr. Gordon."
						But behind these reassuring words, as though the girl could not quite suppress it,
							was discernible an agitated note of trouble. The omniscient secretary gave his patron
							a glance clearly intended to spur that gentleman on to some advised procedure. Mr.
							Gordon responded to the prod, and spoke with a flush, stammeringly.
						"I hope the thing that troubles you is not my--my--er--awful blunder."
						"No. I've--I've tried to forget that, Mr. Gordon."
						"Then what is it, Miss Bingham?" demanded Jenkins.
						"Nothing you could change--or Mr. Gordon."
						"Don't be too sure," urged Mr. Gordon. "I'm willing to do anything. And I can do a
							lot. Please tell us!"

						

						Mary's face sank forward into her left hand; her white shoulders quivered--and
							quivered, Clifford observed, with a most admirable art.
						"We, father and I, are really frauds," she cried through her handkerchief, flinging
							her right arm out in a hopeless, girlish gesture. "We, the life we lead here--it's
							really nothing but pretense!"
						"Pretense?" the men cried together--and for an instant Clifford wondered if she were
							going to tell the truth.
						"That telephone call awhile ago," she went on--"it was from one of father's friends.
							I had asked him to help get me work."
						"Get you work?" ejaculated the two men.
						"He said that thus far he'd found nothing I could do." She looked up; her young
							girl's manner was a blend of despair, pride and faltering courage--a most touching,
							alluring pose, Clifford noted. "Oh, we have position, yes--and family, yes! But in
							reality we are almost paupers. And I don't know what we are going to do!"
						"Paupers!" cried the dazed Gordon. "Why--why--how did you ever get into such a
							state?"
						"We never were rich--that is, not in the way you are rich, Mr. Gordon. My father was
							not brought up to business; he's always been just a gentleman--and he's a bit
							old-fashioned, as you know. But we had plenty, and would have been  all right, if father had only kept out of business. But
							he speculated in Wall Street--and--and--"
						"And he lost," Gordon helped her along.
						"Yes. And then while he had money, during years and years, he spent an awful lot on
							pictures. Just look at those walls--"
						She broke off and crossed to a switch near the door. A click, and high up on the
							walls a row of shaded lights had sprung into soft bloom.
						"Just look at them," she exclaimed--stepping back into the middle of the room, and
							sweeping her arm toward the pictures--"Corots, Diazes, Rousseaus, Duprs, Troyons,
							Daubignys--picked up one at a time here and there in Europe--all the big Barbizon men
							except Millet. it's been father's greatest sorrow that he has never been able to get a
							good Millet. It's the best collection of the Barbizon School in America."
						Jenkins gave a start. The press-agent in him seized and echoed the words:
						"The best collection of the Barbizon School in America!"
						"Yes. I can tell you all about them; I ought to be able to, having heard father talk
							about nothing else!" As she went on her voice gave a sense that she was ironically
							repeating an eulogistic catalogue of which she was wearied near unto death. "That
							Corot there--look at it. Painted in the  same year, and
							in the same spirit, as the master's famous 'Orpheus and Eurydice.' The few persons who
							have seen it declare that is a finer piece of work than 'Orpheus,' and destined to a
							higher fame--and you will remember that his 'Orpheus' sold in New York a few years ago
							for exactly $75,200."
						"What's that!" cried Mr. Gordon. "I didn't know painters were ever paid such
							prices!"
						"They're not. For that Daubigny there, the artist would have been glad to have had a
							hundred dollars. But it is as good as his 'Willows' which brought the last dealer who
							sold it $30,000. And that landscape by Rousseau--But you've had enough of the
							catalogue."
						"No, no! Go on!" cried the secretary. "It's wonderful!"
						"Wonderful? Yes, but what good do they do?" cried Mary Regan, losing control of
							herself in a wave of rebellious bitterness at her fate. "No one ever sees them here!
							Not half a dozen persons in America even know of their existence! With pictures,
							father is like a miser with gold: he hoards them for their own sake, just for the
							pleasure they give him. I hate them! I hate them! Oh, not because of themselves, but
							because of the misery they have brought on father and on me!" And then with a final
							girlish outburst: "I wish he'd sell them!"

						

						"Why--er--Miss Bingham," said Mr. Gordon, "if you'd only let me advance you a little
							money--"
						"Sir!" Mary interrupted haughtily.
						"Upon the pictures as security," he hastily explained. "There could be no objection
							to that."
						The little secretary had risen eagerly and caught his patron's arm.
						"Wait, Mr. Gordon. Miss Bingham, you are sure that this is the best collection in
							America of the Barbizon School?"
						"Certainly."
						"It can be proved?"
						"Father has the receipts of foreign dealers and galleries where he picked them
							up--and receipts of import duties--and full histories of the pictures--if that is what
							you are thinking of. But I don't see the meaning of your--"
						"Pardon me--I hope you will later. Would I seem rude, Miss Bingham, if I asked
							permission to see Mr. Gordon alone for a few minutes?"
						"Certainly not; you may speak here." She rose "If we are going to that Follies
							theater, it is time that I called father."
						She went out and again passed within an arm's length of Clifford, going back to where
							Russell sat in the dining-room. But Clifford's business was where he then was.

						

						"What's the matter with you now?" demanded Gordon of his excited secretary.
						"I've got an idea--the idea! Listen, Mr. Gordon--I don't like to
							speak about unpleasant things at the very jump-off, but we've got to remember how the
							newspapers have been shelling you."
						"No chance of my forgetting that!" growled Gordon.
						"And how that National Social Research Society is after you because of conditions in
							your mines."
						This time Gordon swore.
						"Part of my business is to counteract such attacks--to set you right with the
							public--to see that you get the helpful sort of publicity." The rotund little
							ex-press-agent swelled with the cleverness and importance of his plan. "What I'm going
							to suggest may be an old stunt, but a lot of rich men have found it a good one, and
							it's always sure fire: Make some big public benefaction!"
						"Yes, you're always wanting me to spend money" grunted Mr. Gordon. "What are you
							driving at?"
						"Here it is, and it's a peach: Mr. Henry Gordon presents to the Chicago Art Institute
							the World's Greatest Collection of Paintings of the Barbizon School."
						"Eh--what's that?"

						

						The secretary caught the lapels of his amazed employer's evening coat, and in his
							excitement his language slipped back to the swift choppy lingo of his theatrical
							press-agent days.
						"The Gordon Masterpieces! Get that? can't you see the headlines? World's greatest
							collection of Barbizon masters!"
						Mr. Gordon stared. "Say, who were these Barbizon masters, anyhow?"
						"Don't block traffic by asking such questions now!" cried the impatient Jenkins.
							"They're headliners--play big time; I'll buy you a book about 'em, and then you can
							talk wise. Say--here's a stunt that's big, solid, and inspiring of respect! Gimme
							something I can put my teeth, into, and I'll show you how I can put you across!"
						"But that old simp of a Bingham won't sell."
						"You loosen up, and he will. he's gotta sell. He may love these damned chromos, but
							he's too proud to let his girl go to work. Besides, if you buy this junk, it puts you
							solid with the girl--see?"
						"But what'll Bingham want for this truck?"
						"Oh, it means a life separation for you from a large bunch of change," grimly
							responded the secretary. "But you've gotta stand the pain. There are fifteen pictures
							here. A hundred and fifty thousand, maybe--"

						

						"A hundred and fifty thousand!" groaned Mr. Gordon.
						"Get 'em for less if you can--but get 'em! they'll be worth twice that to you!"
						"Well--I'll think about it."
						"It'll be great stuff!" That fever which is peculiar to press-agents--a fever which
							craves for columns of unpaid-for space, and finds an artist's triumph in so handling a
							puff that editors must print it--blazed in Jenkins' little eyes. "Get 'em, and put the
							rest of it up to me ! Say, if I don't pull some stunts--presentations, receptions,
							formal opening of the Gordon Gallery--man alive, your bill to your clipping bureau
							will jump to a thousand a week and there won't be a clip that won't be a boost! . . .
							S-sh, she's coming back."
						Mary Regan reentered in the rose-velvet cloak, alone. Jenkins signaled his employer
							to seize this opportunity.
						"Miss Bingham," said Gordon, "we have just been discussing the possibility of my
							purchasing your father's pictures."
						"I don't think father will ever sell," said the ingenue, in a discouraged voice.
							"I've often begged him to."
						"What did he say?"
						"You can guess the chief thing he said, since you know how he worships them. But
							there's  another reason. It would n't help us a bit for
							him to sell. I've told you how involved he is; his creditors would learn of the sale,
							and swoop down and seize, or legally tie up, the proceeds."
						Mr. Gordon smiled condescendingly at her business naivet.
						"My dear Miss Bingham, you can easily evade that situation."
						She gazed at him with wide, innocent eyes.
						"How?"
						"We can--if we, ah, should agree on terms--make the sale a strictly private
							transaction. By the time anything is learned about it, you and your father can be
							safely in, say, South America--with the money."
						"But would that be honest?"
						"Now don't you worry your head about business ethics," indulgently smiled Gordon.
							"You just leave that to me."
						"But I don't think father will ever sell," she repeated despondently.
						"You can help change his mind," urged Gordon. He held out his hand. "Come, promise
							you'll help."
						She hesitated, then laid her hand in his.
						"I'll do what I can," she said.

					

					

					

						IV

						A few minutes later the closing of the outside door mounted to Clifford; the four had
							gone. Deep silence possessed the great house; whatever servants the financially
							stricken Mr. Bingham was able to keep, were now three flights up in bed.
						Now for the further business which had kept him here--to learn something about these
							masterpieces. Clifford slipped from the balcony through the curtains into the dark
							drawing-room, switched on the lights, and gazed with excited curiosity at this little
							gallery of Corots, Daubignys, Diazes, Duprs, Troyons, Rousseaus. He was no recondite
							connoisseur, but he had had to know a bit about picures. Russell had probably paid
							some unscrupulous wastrel of a genius as much as $100 each to do the lot; and they
							were aged to their proper half century by heat and smoke. But for what they really
							were, most excellent!
						And another point Clifford's swift eyes noted--and his grudging admiration for the
							cleverness of Russell went up one more notch. The paintings were imitations, not
							copies. Unlike some other gentlemen who have engaged in the lucrative traffic of
							selling illegitimate works of art to credulous millionaires, Russell was too wise to
							offer for sale as the original a copy of a famous picture--for  there was the risk that even the man of most recent millions might know
							that the original was actually hanging in London, Paris, Florence, Munich, These
							paintings were all done in the manner of their alleged creators;
							they purported to be discoveries--works hitherto unknown to critics and
							collectors.
						They were clever, yes; but not so clever that a buyer who was also a connoisseur
							would not instantly have detected the fraud. Here it was that Russell had shown his
							greatest skill: in his knowledge of men and the patience with which he had selected a
							"sucker" who did not know pictures, perhaps passing up a hundred other prospects.
						One by one, very softly, Clifford began to slip the pictures from their frames,
							examine most critically the back of the canvas, then replace them; until he came to
							that Corot which had been done in the spirit of his "Orpheus and Eurydice" which had
							sold for $75,200--the poetic haze of twilight, dim nymphs in flowing drapery dancing
							in an open space among old twisted trees. With his knife he loosed a few tacks which
							held the canvas to its stretcher, and turned back the canvas's edge. A quick glance,
							and he carefully pressed the tacks into place, and returned the picture to its frame.
							At last he had found what he wanted.
						Clifford switched out the lights, and sank into  the
							very chair which ten minutes before had held the unsophisticated Miss Regan. He had to
							do some thinking, and for the present there was no safer place than this great silent
							house. To be involved (unknown to the other parties) in a great audacious art fraud,
							to watch its operation, to have the purpose of somehow at the moment of the climax
							making himself master of the affair--here was suspense, achievement, honor. To have
							the chance of catching Bradley in the matter, for he knew that Bradley was
							concerned--here was something even more.
						And Mary Regan--she was most of all. His attitude toward Mary Began was strangely
							mixed, and the balance of power shifted almost every moment, as now his official duty,
							now his resentment, now his desire as a man, asserted a brief supremacy. Should he, if
							he succeeded in his unformed plan, place her under arrest? The idea hurt the man part
							of him; for though all his worldly sense had rebuked him and had tried to restrain him
							from thinking of the matter, he knew that his feeling toward her had passed
							unrecalledly beyond that of friendship.
						And then Clifford had an inspiration. Perhaps after he had caught her and her
							uncle--if he did!--and after she felt prison doors inevitably closing about her--she
							would, to save her uncle and herself,  give aid that
							would help him trap Chief of Detectives Bradley, whom he knew she loved almost as
							little as did he himself. In return, he would secure her immunity. So narrow an escape
							should make her see the dangers and final harbor of her present course, should rouse
							to regnancy those fine qualities which he knew existed in her.
						Yes, here was the right way with Mary Regan! . . .
						But what should he do next, and how should he do it? Obviously he must not be seen
							again by Russell or Mary Regan, for the pair might take alarm and abandon the scheme.
							He had it--the Gordon end of the affair was the end from which he must keep in touch
							with developments.
						To watch, and wait, and maneuver until the very moment of the transfer, and then
							catch Russell and Mary Regan red-handed, that must be his plan--with Billy Dempsey to
							help in the details.
						Thus much decided, Clifford slipped from the gallery painted vicariously and
							posthumously by Corot, Diaz, et al., and out of the fine old mansion.

					

					

						V

						Mr. Cameron Nicholls, world-weary, exclusive clubman--known better to his intimates
							as Robert Clifford--sat in his apartment adjoining that of  his neighbor and casual acquaintance, Mr. Henry Gordon, with the
							annunciator of a dictograph at his ear. It was six days later, and during this time he
							had been Mr. Nicholls. These six days had been a period of careful watching, of
							patiently, unobtrusively seeking fragments of fact--the kind of wearing routine that
							is behind every big case of which the public sees only the spectacular features.
						The little disk at his ear was silent; and while he waited, Clifford read a
							two-column story which in substance appeared in all the papers which lay discarded
							about him. As he read he smiled. He knew that the sale of the Barbizon masterpieces
							had not yet been formally executed; but that impatient, zealous little Jenkins, so
							Clifford interpreted this action, had been unable to restrain his press-agent's
							soul--or rather, he had acted upon a rule which experience in his craft had taught
							him, to announce a thing before it happens, and then announce it again after it has
							happened. So here was flamboyant proclamation of Gordon's great gift to tbe Chicago
							Art Institute: Finest collection of Barbizon painters in America--Hitherto little
							known pictures excel most famous work of masters--Said to have cost a million--Mr.
							Gordon, interviewed, stated that he would announce later where and how he had acquired
							the pictures, and would announce his plans for a New York exhibition  which was to precede the removal of the masterpieces to
							Chicago for the formal presentation there.
						Jenkins had said that, with something he could get his teeth into, he could put
							Gordon across. He certainly had done so! This same story, Clifford knew, with more or
							less of detail was in every paper of any importance in America. And it had been so
							adroitly fed to the papers, just enough of it withheld, just enough of mystery
							injected into it, to keep it "live" and make it good for many a big "follow-up" story
							in days to come.
						While Clifford was wondering how Russell would take this premature announcement, the
							disk at his ears became vocal. It told of doors opening and closing in Gordon's
							apartment. Then a voice came over the wires--Jenkins' voice; it ordered most carefully
							for that night an elaborate dinner for four covers.
						There was silence; patient waiting; then Clifford's telephone began to ring. Quickly
							he exchanged the annunciator for the telephone receiver. The voice was Billy
							Dempsey's--faithful old Billy Dempsey, who never understood more than he was expected
							to understand--to whom Clifford had assigned the detail of watching the aristocratic
							mansion off lower Fifth Avenue from the window of a boarding-house which had brazenly
							intruded itself into that once exclusive neighborhood.

						

						"An express wagon has just left the house with fifteen boxes," reported Dempsey.
						"Did you learn where they were going?"
						"I had my field glasses on them. they're billed Mr. Gordon, at his hotel."
						"Good work, Billy. Anything else?"
						"Looks like the people inside were packing trunks."
						Dempsey had nothing else to report. As Clifford hung up he instinctively added
							together that elaborated dinner, the movement of the pictures, the packing, and he
							thrilled at the total. His patient watchfulness had brought him this much: the money
							transfer, the final scene, was to take place in Gordon's apartment that evening!
						Excitedly he sat trying to understand this situation. Why was the transfer going to
							take place in Gordon's rooms?--if it was? And what was behind Russell's willingness to
							have it here? Clifford reasoned that Gordon saw a chance to make a big stage effect
							upon the impressionable Miss Bingham--to make her feel that he was giving the dinner
							in her honor--that he was doing this whole business for her sake. And Clifford
							surmised that Russell had not liked this part of the plan, but that Gordon had been
							insistent, and that Russell had yielded the comparatively unimportant point in order
							not to delay the plan's conclusion.

						

						At half past nine that night Clifford, now in evening clothes, was still listening at
							the dictograph. Presently he heard Gordon dismiss the servants, and heard the latter
							leave the apartment. He listened a moment longer, then slipped off the head-piece and
							turned to Dempsey whom he had summoned here.
						"Follow me in five minutes, Billy, and wait outside the door," he ordered. "you're
							not to come in, unless I signal."
						"All right, Bob."
						There was a look in honest Dempsey's face which Clifford read as a desire to
							accompany him and learn what this business was all about, but Clifford, the better to
							carry out his plan which included possible bargaining, wished no extra witness to the
							proceedings just before him. He closed his own door, moved to his neighbors', thrust
							in the pass-key which he had duplicated from the chambermaid's and noiselessly
							entered. He was in a tiny reception room. Three paces forward was a doorway curtained
							with drawn tapestries. Through them, not a dozen feet away, around a white table from
							which all had been removed except sweets, tobacco, and wine, Clifford could see the
							four: Gordon, beefily magnificent as a host; Jenkins, excited and very important;
							Russell, in his evening dress suggestive of a generation ago; and Mary Regan, that  beautiful product of a sheltered life, in a costume of
							gold-brocaded chiffon.
						Yes, and leaning against the walls, the covers of their wooden cases removed, were
							the Barbizon masterpieces.
						The talk was still dinner commonplaces and dinner clevernesses. As Clifford waited, a
							sentiment which previously had risen in him began to gather strength. Though by
							profession an enemy of crime, his sympathy was becoming more definitely with that
							wilful spirit, Mary Regan, and the calculating Joe Russell. It was the sight of
							Gordon, his knowledge of that gross Lothario, and his knowledge of that man's present
							motives which were responsible for this changing attitude: Gordon, scheming and biding
							his time to make conquest of this supposedly nave girl--and scheming to set himself
							right with bribe to the public he had wronged and defied. Contrasting the two pair,
							Clifford began to hate himself for siding with Gordon--but then, there was his
							duty!
						A remark of Joe Russell brought Clifford's mind sharply back from its wandering to
							its immediate business.
						"It's rather late for us, Mr. Gordon," said that unworldly gentleman. " We had better
							finish our little affair and go home."
						"Yes, yes--but sorry you must observe such  early
							hours." Mr. Gordon rose heavily to his feet, cleared his throat, and smiled a fat
							ingratiating smile. "Miss Bingham, I must compliment you on the manner in which you
							have handled this business. For so young a woman--one who has had no experience with
							the world--you have run the price up on me in a manner that should make me feel very
							bitter--but I don't."
						"The pictures were all father had, you know," apologized Mary Regan.
						"It's all right. You've a wonderful daughter, Mr. Bingham." A note of patronage came
							into the big man's voice. "I don't mean to hurt your feelings--I realize that you
							don't bother yourself with the affairs of the world--but I think your daughter is your
							superior in business matters--and the point where you've shown the most business sense
							has been in regard to the plan for evading your creditors."
						"Yes, but it was really you who worked that plan out," mildly protested Mr.
							Bingham.
						"Perhaps. And it's not such a bad plan, is it? you're all ready to sail to-morrow?" 
						"Yes," said Russell.
						"Cuba, Jamaica, Rio de Janeiro--it's almost as good as Paris when Paris was at her
							best. You'll have a pleasant time, and your creditors can whistle for their money.
							Excellent!. don'tbe surprised  if you meet me down there
							shortly; a tropical climate is more suited to me."
						He smiled with heavy gallantry; Clifford saw how he was straining every art of his
							crude nature to impress Mary Regan. "And now, Miss Bingham, since you are the best
							business man in your family, I am going to make the payment to you. Here it is; take
							good care of it"--and he held out a packet to her.
						Mary Regan did not at once accept the packet. "Is it in the form we agreed on?"
						"Yes. I have followed your suggestion."
						"Your suggestion," she corrected.
						"All right--my suggestion then. Ten drafts, for twenty thousand apiece, each on a
							different bank--all payable 'to order.' No indorsement required--no single huge
							sum--no possible chance of your father's creditors learning of his acquiring so large
							an amount. Really, a capital plan! A ride of an hour in a taxi in the morning and
							you'll have it all in cash--and I tell you, it will be one pile of money!"
						Mary took the drafts.
						"Thank you. You have been most thoughtful."
						"It's worth it to have you say that"--with a flourish of self-approval.
						"And here is a receipted bill of sale for the pictures," put in Joe Russell.

						

						Gordon took the paper and carelessly laid it on the table. With a large gesture he
							decanted champagne into four glasses.
						"Now that at last it's all settled, here's a toast," he smiled genially-- "May you
							enjoy the palm trees--and the money--and may we all soon meet again!"
						"Let me add a phrase to that," put in Mr. Bingham--"May Mr. Gordon enjoy his
							masterpieces!"
						Mr. Gordon laughed: " Oh, I'll enjoy them--"
						It was at this moment that Clifford stepped into the room.

					

					

						VI

						Mr. Gordon saw Clifford first, and his glass stopped abruptly on its course to his
							wide loose mouth.
						"What are you doing here, Mr. Nicholls?" Gordon demanded.
						All wheeled upon Clifford.
						"I'm here to arrest Mr. and Miss Bingham," he answered.
						That great actor, Joe Russell, showed only the bewildered surprise of an unworldly
							recluse.
						"Arrest us?"
						"What for?" exploded Mr. Gordon.
						"For selling you fifteen fake masterpieces."

						

						"Fake masterpieces! Say--who are you, Mr. Nicholls? "
						"Mr. and Miss Bingham, who know me well, can tell you that I am from the police
							department."
						"Police department!" cried Gordon, staring stupidly at his casual acquaintance from
							next door.
						Mr. Bingham, do you know him?"
						"I never saw the gentleman before," replied Russell in the unworldly Bingham
							manner.
						Mr. Gordon's amazement changed into the haughty wrath of the autocrat.
						"What do you mean, sir, by such an intrusion?"
						"I think I understand," put in Mary Regan, and there was venom in the gaze she gave
							Clifford. "I have read about the daring methods of blackmailers in New York. Mr.
							Gordon, I suggest that you excuse us and call a house detective."
						"Yes, I think that explains this affair, Mr. Gordon," said Russell.
						"You and Miss Regan are doing it mighty well, Joe," said Clifford. "But you might as
							well drop it, for the game's up."
						He turned again to Gordon. "I repeat, Mr. Gordon, that the pictures are fakes."
						"Fakes!" This time Clifford's announcement was taken more seriously; the big
							autocratic Gordon and the rotund secretary were staring at him in  stupefied incredulity. "But I have documentary proof!" Gordon
							declared.
						"Forged," commented Clifford.
						"But experts have declared the pictures genuine!"
						"Those experts were secretly in Russell's pay."
						"Yes, that sounds exactly like the talk of a blackmailer," Mary Regan put in
							evenly.
						Gordon glared at Clifford, and burst out, with blustering resurgent confidence:
						"I don't believe you!"
						"If I am wrong, then call the house detective as Miss Regan suggested. In the
							meantime, pardon me."
						Clifford stepped to one of the pictures standing on the floor, and deftly removed it
							from its frame and held it out.
						"Here's a Corot," he said with dry irony directed at Mary Regan--" done in that
							master's best manner--equal if not superior to his 'Orpheus and Eurydice,' which
							recently sold here in New York for $75,200! " The next moment_ Clifford had drawn out
							several tacks, and had turned back a corner of the canvas. "Mr. Gordon, will you
							kindly look at this little spot,"
						Mr. Gordon did not move.
						"What is it?"
						"Only the canvas dealer's stamp. Did you ever  hear
							that Corot was accustomed to buying his canvas at Simpson's in West Fifty-seventh
							Street?"
						Mr. Gordon moved over, gazed at the dealer's stamp, and his florid face went pasty
							white.
						"All the other fourteen masterpieces in the great Gordon collection of the Barbizon
							School are of the same authenticity and the same value." Clifford turned to Russell.
							"Joe," he said chidingly, "that drunken genius of an Anstruther must have been even a
							bit drunker than usual when he painted these. And you, Joe--I didn't think you'd ever
							be guilty of such an awful slip as this--you with the reputation of being the
							smoothest worker in America!"
						That instant the unworldly Mr. Bingham ceased to be, and in his place stood the
							alert, resourceful Joseph Russell; and from out of the old-fashioned evening clothes
							had come an exceedingly modern automatic pistol, and it was pointing at Clifford.
						"Beat it, Mary," he ordered sharply.
						Clutching the drafts, Mary Regan crossed swiftly to the curtained hallway, snatching
							from the table on her way the receipted bill for the pictures.
						"Stop, Miss Regan!" Clifford cried warningly. She halted between the parted curtains.
							"there's an officer outside the apartment door, with orders to arrest any one who
							tries to leave."
						"See!" snapped out Russell.

						

						Mary disappeared. The following moment she returned and nodded affirmatively.
							Russell's eyes still glinted savagely along the automatic.
						"Put up the gun, Joe," Clifford said quietly. "You know I know you well enough to
							know you wouldn't really use it even if Dempsey wasn't outside. That rough stuff isn't
							in your line."
						For an instant more the pistol held its aim. Then a careless, indifferent hand
							returned it into the ancient evening clothes, and Russell sank into a chair and
							crossed his legs--the imperturbable, poiseful, cynical man of the world, who never
							fought when a fight was useless. He smiled pleasantly.
						"Well, it does look a bit as though you had us, Bob."
						Gordon stood flabbily amazed, his loose mouth working, at this swift transformation
							in his guests. Mary Regan, no longer the ingenue, crossed stiffly to the fireplace, in
							which a wood fire blazed more for decoration than for warmth.
						"Good God!" ejaculated Gordon; and a weaker "Good God!" breathed the little Jenkins.
							Then, "what's this mean, Mr. Bingham?" Gordon huskily demanded.
						"For one thing," said Russell, "it means that you're a pair of the easiest, most
							tiresome boobs--"
						"What's that!" Gordon fell back, glowering  with sudden
							anger. He wheeled on Mary Regan, now hard-eyed, contemptuous. "Miss Bingham--"
						"Don't talk to me!" she cut in. "I detest you!" She turned a bright defiant gaze on
							Clifford. "Well--what do you think you are going to do?"
						As he gazed at the straight imperious young figure, Clifford strove to keep himself
							tightly under control. But beneath his calm surface there was thrilling exultation--he
							was master of the situation--master of this girl--his hour was at hand! Now for the
							task of bringing her to her senses--and capturing Bradley.
						"Your life may have seemed easy, exciting, Miss Regan," he drove hard at her, "but
							this affair will mean about twenty years to you. And it will amount to life for your
							uncle. When you come out, you'll be a middle-aged woman."
						She went slowly pale. Even Gordon and Jenkins were held silent by the vision Clifford
							had summoned up--of that vital, rounded young woman, standing there by the fireplace
							with the drafts in one hand and in the other the receipted bill for the pictures,
							doomed to become seamed and bent and ugly. Russell, too, however stoical he may have
							been in regard to himself, was moved by what confronted Mary Regan.
						Clifford saw that he had made his effect.

						

						"Prison for twenty years, Miss Regan," he repeated--paused to let that sink in--then
							went to his next point--"unless you will consent to help me in a certain matter."
						"What, for instance?" Russell asked in her behalf.
						"I know Chief of Detectives Bradley is mixed with you in this affair. I'll arrange to
							have you both let down easy, if you'll go through with this deal in such a way as will
							help me get the goods on Bradley."
						"If I get you right," said Russell, "you care more for Bradley than for us."
						"You get me right."
						"That's mighty interesting, Bob. Only--we can't do it."
						"Oh, yes, you can!" Clifford retorted grimly. "For I know you are splitting with
							Bradley!"
						"Your idea may be fine, my boy. But your grammar is rotten."
						"Grammar? "
						"Your tenses must have been in a railroad wreck. It is not present, are
								splitting; but past perfect, and mighty damned perfect, have
								split."
						"Have split?" ejaculated Clifford.
						"Exactly." Russell smiled with wry mirthlessness. "I haven't a charge account with
							Bradley any more, so two days ago he made me pay cash in  advance before he'd let me operate. Now, there's no possible tracing the
							money."
						For the moment Clifford could only gaze with stupefaction at the lean face of the old
							adventurer. The whole foundation had suddenly dropped from beneath his plan!
						"And money which Bradley swallows, Bradley never coughs up again," Russell continued
							pleasantly. "Through your mixing in this little affair I'm out just twenty-five
							thousand."
						"Out twenty-five thousand!" repeated Clifford.
						"That and two months." He nodded with the stoic ease of the gambler with life whom
							long experience has drilled to accept without surprise any unexpected card fate may
							turn up against him. "Well--since we can't do you that trifling service, Bob, I
							suppose you'll be arresting us."
						"I'll have to," said Clifford.
						"You bet he'll arrest you!" exploded Gordon, advancing menacingly, and glaring from
							Russell to Mary Regan. His wrath was now beyond his control--and Clifford found
							himself loathing yet more this porcine superman whom it was his duty to protect.
							"You'll get not twenty years, but a hundred! Both of you! Jenkins, call in that
							officer outside to help arrest this pair."
						The little secretary started across the room.
						"One moment, Mr. Jenkins," Mary Regan  sharply
							commanded. Jenkins halted. "Wait until you understand why I induced you to make the
							announcement in all the papers about the Gordon Masterpieces before the sale was
							actually completed."
						"You induce me!" gasped the little man. "It was my own idea!"
						"You thought it was your own idea," she mocked, him. "But like all your own ideas,
							some one else put it into your head."
						She turned to the millionaire.
						"Mr. Gordon, you have told Miss Bingham that one of the fundamental secrets of
							success in big business is always to have one card up your sleeve to play in case
							something goes wrong. Well, the announcement of this sale was the card up our
							sleeve."
						"A trick up your sleeve?--how?" Gordon ejaculated.
						"Mr. Gordon, who is very thin-skinned about the, bad things the papers say about
							him," she explained, with a smile of contempt, " has boasted in every paper of the
							country about his priceless masterpieces. If we are arrested, then it will become
							known that the great business genius, Mr. Gordon, was fooled by a mere girl--and that
							the fifteen priceless masterpieces of the great art patron of the same name are
							fifteen worthless smears. can't  you hear them
							laughing--every newspaper of the country!"
						"Say--what are you driving at?" demanded Mr. Gordon, and wet his thick loose
							lips.
						"Exactly what I've been driving at from the beginning: to put you into such a
							situation that, in case something went wrong, you'd never consent to our arrest or
							never appear against us." She waited; Gordon did not speak. "Well--how about it? Are
							you going to have us arrested?"
						"She's right--you don't dare do a thing," choked out Jenkins.
						Gordon clutched his big hands wrathfully--glared at the two--but still the big man
							could not find his voice.
						Clifford drew a deep breath. So that was the reason for the premature announcement!
							He had to admire the perverted cleverness of Mary Regan; but his duty as an official
							lay in another direction.
						"Mr. Gordon, you have obligations as a citizen. You are not going to let such talk
							influence you."
						I'm not going to have a thing to do with it," snarled Gordon--"except to get my money
							back."
						"You damned skunk!--you deserve to be trimmed!" Clifford shot into his face.
						Gordon, ignoring this explosion of wrathful contempt, started toward Mary Regan with
							a fat clutching hand outstretched.

						

						"Give me my money back, Miss Bingham, and I'll not prosecute!"
						"No, you don't!" cried Clifford, seizing his arm. "That money belongs to the state of
							New York as evidence. We can make out a case without you," he added grimly. "Miss
							Regan, give me that money!"
						Mary Regan thrust the handful of drafts above the flaming grate.
						"Stop--both of you--or they go into the fire!"
						"But, girl--that's real money!" cried the millionaire, aghast at such threatened
							sacrilege.
						"Yes--and another step, and it will be lost to you as money, and to Mr. Clifford as
							evidence!"
						Clifford and Gordon abruptly halted. Mary Regan stood there, back to the fire, pale
							and taut, but with the composed air of one who feels herself mistress of the
							situation. She crumpled the receipted bill of sale in her left hand and dropped it
							upon the coals; a yellow flare and it was no more.
						"Mr. Clifford, neither Mr. Gordon nor Mr. Jenkins will testify--the existence of the
							pictures alone proves nothing--and if you try to take these drafts I burn them--so you
							have no case. Mr. Gordon, they burn--"
						"My God, woman, they're money!" writhed Mr. Gordon. "You would n't destroy money in
							that way!"

						

						"I shall if you try to take it! But I'll offer to compromise with you both."
						"What sort of compromise?"
						A daring, inspired look had come into Mary Regan's face; for a moment a faint smile
							of malice flashed there, then was gone.
						"I'll agree that none of us shall have the money," she said. "We shall give it to
							charity--to a charity of my own choosing, but subject to Mr. Clifford's approval.
							Well?"
						The two men, bewildered by this turn, did not answer.
						"That, or I burn it!" she warned.
						"Anything except waste it!" choked Gordon; and Clifford likewise could only
							agree.
						"Very well. Mr. Jenkins, you are the safest person to have near me; for if you should
							try violence, I think I could handle you. Will you please bring me a sheet of plain
							paper, a plain envelope, stamps, pen and ink."
						As Jenkins obeyed her, Clifford wondered what end was this that was coming to the
							case of the Barbizon masterpieces. All eyes silently upon her, Mary Regan stood at one
							end of the mantelpiece where she could toss the drafts into the fire at any suspicious
							movement, and using the mantel as a desk she slowly wrote a note in what Clifford
							could perceive to be backhand. Then she addressed an 
							envelope, put the drafts into it, and sealed and stamped it.
						"Fortunately this money is in the form of drafts payable to order and does not have
							to be endorsed--so it cannot be traced." There was a thread of irony in her voice as
							she repeated Gordon's phrases.
						"Mr. Clifford "--handing him the sealed packet--"does this philanthropy meet with
							your approval?"
						Clifford glanced at the address, then looked in amazement at Mary Regan.
						"Why--why--" he stammered; then with grim exultation out came an emphatic "Yes!"
						"See here--I want to know where it's going!" demanded Gordon, reaching for the
							letter.
						Mary Regan firmly blocked the eager hand.
						"That was not a part of our agrement. Mr. Clifford, will you kindly give this letter
							to your man outside and ask him to get it into a mail-box instantly?"
						Dazed, Clifford went to the apartment door, and delivered the letter with her
							instructions to Dempsey. As he reentered, he saw the little secretary clutching
							Gordon's arm.
						"Mr. Gordon," gasped Jenkins in dismayed excitement, "we've forgotten something! The
							Chicago Institute--the newspapers!"
						"What the hell is it now?" exploded the provoked millionaire.

						

						"Don't you see"--the little man's voice had become a rasping shriek--"we don't dare
							give those fakes to the Institute! And we've told the papers we were going to give
							them--and if we don't, how the newspapers will throw the harpoon into you!"
						The bulky figure of Gordon collapsed loosely into a chair, and his florid face faded
							to ashes. Suddenly he sprang up wildly.
						"You damned little cockroach, you," he roared at Jenkins--"whatta I pay you for?
							can't you think of something?"
						The little man, limp, stared at his furious master with helpless, horrified eyes.
							None could measure so well as he the disastrous magnitude of this suddenly imminent
							scandal.
						"Do something!" shouted the childishly frantic Gordon. "Stop looking at me like a
							sick codfish! Think! Damn you, think!"
						Intelligence had already begun to glimmer in the dazed round face of little Jenkins.
							"Wait--I'm thinking! "The next moment the ex-press agent of "Look who's Here!" was
							himself again. Excitedly he seized the telephone which stood on a side table.
						"Central, gimme Cortlandt five-two-one-O. ... I've got it, Mr. Gordon--I've got it! .
							. . Hello, this the City News Association? . . . This is Mr. Jenkins, secretary of Mr.
							Henry Gordon--you  know. Called you up to announce to
							you that Mr. Gordon has taken such a strong liking, such a very strong liking, to
							those Barbizon Masterpieces that he has decided to retain them for his private
							gallery. In their place he will present to the Chicago Art Institute another
							collection for which he is now negotiating."
						A few more sentences, and Jenkins hung up and looked about with the exultant pride of
							one who has performed an unparalleled coup.
						"That fixes everything, Mr. Gordon! Your private gallery--eh, what!--where no one'll
							ever see 'em. The City News feeds all the New York papers, also the Associated Press,
							and the A. P.'ll wire the story all over the counry. No one will ever find out!"
						"You're all right, Jenkins!" exclaimed his employer, with vast relief. And then, with
							resurgent savage triumph, to Mary Regan: "you're clever --but you've not got me in so
							bad as you thought you had!"
						"Mr. Clifford," said Mary Regan evenly, "do you suppose that by this time my letter
							is in the care of the United States Mail?"
						"Yes," said Clifford.
						She crossed to the telephone and leisurely picked it up.
						"Central, give me Cortlandt five-two-one-O. . . .  Is
							this the City News Association? . . . This is the secretary of the National Social
							Research Society. I wish to announce an anonymous gift of two hundred thousand
							dollars--"
						"What's that?" Gordon broke in, starting toward her.
						"Given," continued Mary Regan, "with the express stipulation that it is to be devoted
							to investigation of conditions in the Gordon mines. The Society will make a fuller
							statement to-morrow. Good-by."
						The glassy eyes of Mr. Gordon looked as though they were about to roll from out their
							fat-terraced lids.
						"Is that where you gave my money?--to that damned society that's muck-raking me?"
						"Exactly," said Mary Regan in her cold even voice.
						Wordlessly Mr. Gordon sank into a chair, a boneless, shaking object whose breath came
							in irregular gasps. The little secretary's round face was glazed with a stare of
							stupefaction.
						Mary Regan looked neither at them nor at Clifford.
						"Come on, Uncle; let's go--" and she started out.
						"One moment, Mary."
						Joe Russell had sighted the glasses, brimming  with the
							wine that Gordon had poured out just as Clifford had entered. He picked one up; his
							smile and tone were dulcetly amiable.
						"Mr. Gordon, during this interruption we have forgotten our little toast."
						"Go to hell!" breathed that gentleman.
						"Then you and I'll drink the toast, Bob. Take Gordon's glass; the one to the right.
							Here's the toast: May Mr. Gordon find unbounded pleasure. in the new additions to his
							private gallery."
						The next moment Clifford was touching Gordon's glass of flat champagne to the glass
							of Joseph Russell-- with Mary Regan gazing coldly at them from the doorway.

					

				

				

				

					VI

					THE PRIDE OF MARY REGAN

					

						I

						CLIFFORD had had two conferences that day. First, his old friend
							Tarleton had sent for him--that popular man-about-town, whose law office was merely a
							pleasant den wherein he loitered for an hour or two reading the papers and attending
							to his social correspondence. Of late, a strain of weakness that Clifford had always
							known to be latent in his good-natured friend, had emerged in a distressing manner:
							since Tarleton's wife had left the city for the summer, Tarleton, as is too frequently
							the practice of his kind, had found an understudy for the months that society retreats
							to seashore and mountains; and this substitute was no other than Clarice Langhorne, of
							whom Clifford knew more than he thought wise to tell Tarleton while so ruled by his
							infatuation. That day Clifford had expostulated with Tarleton; had told him he was
							spending far beyond his limited income;  had urged him
							to end the affair, for his wife's sake. Tarleton, beneath the surface of his easy
							manner, had seemed harassed, but had laughed Clifford's advice aside and had said that
							he had sent for Clifford to ask if there was not another affair in which he might
							assist, which would help him fill these tedious days. It had been a futile and
							disturbing interview.
						Then there had been the conference with Commissioner Thorne; and it was to the
							problems brought up in this second conference that Clifford, as he sat in his tiny
							bachelor apartment, was giving that thought which was the necessary preface to action.
							Undoubtedly, some plan was at this moment under way against Thorne, as the
							Commissioner had declared; for the fertile-brained Bradley was always dreaming large
							dreams and always scheming bold schemes. Clifford wondered just what the plan might
							be--deep and daring, of a certainty. His trained sense informed him infallibly that he
							was nearing the crisis of one of those great feuds within the police department,
							generally waged silently, and of which the public as a rule hears nothing. His mind
							ranged over the police officials from Inspector Byrnes onward (only from hearsay did
							he know of that day, twenty years back, when Police Commissioner Theodore Roosevelt
							had unmasked the then famous Byrnes,  and Byrnes had
							walked out of Headquarters in the worst rain policemen could recall, alone, disgraced,
							broken)--who had used their great official powers for their private ends. They were
							many, and almost all of them had escaped detection and conviction--favored by a
							kindlier fortune than had been Inspector Byrnes'. And of all that long list of strong
							men, Bradley was the strongest.
						Clifford went swiftly over Bradley's character and his methods, trying to find in
							them a clue to the man's possible hidden campaign. Bradley, at the outset of his
							police career, had fallen in with the bad element in the Department--where there were
							intrigue, and "double-crossing," and "framing," and secret fighting of each other, and
							partnership with law-breaking forces: and it had become part of his blood and his
							bones to win promotion by these means. Instinctively, though privately, he regarded
							the police department, its functions, and all the persons it touched through its
							far-reaching powers, as his property and his subjects, to be used as he might will.
							And in addition to the vast arbitrary powers of his position, Bradley knew how to put
							the screws on all sorts of persons--from the cheapest thief to perhaps the richest and
							highest man in New York society. The secrets and scandals of the great city flowed
							naturally to him. He remembered them all--and PARTNERS
							OF THE NIGHT waited his time. And when his time came, he either won his people by
							doing them a favor, or forced them to do his wish by threat of exposure.
						And yet, despite his pirate's point of view, Bradley always sought,. in whatever he
							did, to twist and color the affair so that the public would approve: this partly
							because the vanity of the man demanded the gratification of public applause, and
							partly because he knew that his strength and success depended upon his standing with
							the public. Bradley was a master at handling the public through the newspapers. Right
							here was the reason Commissioner Thorne had not dared act against him: Bradley was so
							popular with the public, that Thorne could do nothing until he had proof which the
							public would be compelled to accept.
						Certainly, the man was a marvel!
						Excitedly following his train of thought, Clifford came to what seemed to him would
							be, in the present case, Bradley's probable method. The primary essential of Bradley's
							scheme, whatever the scheme might be, required that Thorne be discredited before the
							public. And Clifford realized that the cleverest method would be to base a plan upon
							the obvious, the commonplace. The public generally believed that police officials were
							grafters, and were easily stirred into volcanic indignation by graft scandals;
							therefore the simplest and surest  principle on which to
							base a plan to do away with Thorne was to expose him as a grafter.
						Yes, that would most likely be the method. But in what concrete way would that method
							be worked out--for that principle had a thousand variations. Well, he could only
							watch--and watch--and keep on watching!
						And Clifford came to another decision: he would follow two plans of attack. While he
							was trying to uncover this secret plan of Bradley, he would again try to secure proof
							of the criminal practices in which he knew Bradley was always participating. In the
							language of the prize-ring, he would try to beat Bradley to the punch.
						So much Clifford had decided, when toward nine o'clock the bell of his apartment
							rang. He opened the door and a messenger handed him a note. It was from Mary Regan,
							whom he had not seen since the final night of the affair of the Gordon masterpieces,
							and it requested him to call at once.

					

					

						II

						Wondering what lay behind Mary's brief colorless sentences, Clifford was admitted to
							the old mansion down near Washington Square, and was immediately shown up to the rear
							drawing-room where he had first seen the Barbizon pictures. As  he entered, a handsome--almost too handsome--young woman rose from her
							chair, lithe, exquisitely gowned, with large brown eyes that flashed with mocking
							laughter. Clifford went suddenly hard with disapproval and suspicion: what did it
							mean, Mary Regan being in the company of, and on seeming terms of intimacy with,
							Clarice Langhorne?
						The young woman said good-by to Mary Regan and gave Clifford an over-courteous ironic
							smile--she suspected that Clifford had tried to argue Tarleton out of his infatuation
							for her--and swept by him, her every movement instinct with supple grace, her person
							inclosed, as with an impalpable garment, in a soft perfume of a sophisticated,
							hothouse spring--heliotrope, he recognized it to be.
						With a formal, tentative "Good-evening, Miss Regan," Clifford took the chair Mary
							silently indicated and looked at her with sharp curiosity. Her direct gaze gave him no
							hint of her purpose, or of her feeling toward himself save that as yet she regarded
							him with no open friendliness.
						She spoke almost at once, making no reference to the matter of the Barbizon
							painters.
						"I wanted to see you about my brother."
						"Yes?" said Clifford. "How 's his motion-picture business?" For Slant-Face, after his
							acquittal at his trial for murder, had become the manager  of a motion-picture theater on upper Broadway.
						"His theater is closed, and his license has been revoked."
						"What for?" exclaimed Clifford.
						Her voice was low, and coldly even.
						"Two of Bradley's detectives arrested him for carrying concealed weapons. They found
							two pistols on him."
						"What did he mean," demanded Clifford, exasperated at the man he had tried to help,
							"by carrying guns just after he had beaten a murder charge?"
						"Jim wasn't carrying any guns. The pistols were planted on him by Bradley's men when
							they arrested him."
						"You mean Slant-Face was framed?"
						"Was anybody ever framed better? Jim barely got out of those two big shooting
							scrapes--right afterward he's found with two pistols on him-- two policemen to swear
							against him--what chance does he have? Jim says the least he'll get will be the
							limit."
						"Where is he now?"
						"He's out on bail."
						"But what's behind the frame-up?"
						"Mr. Bradley has some deep reason," she answered in her even tone. "To upset Mr.
							Bradley,  --that's the only way I see to save my
							brother. I know you are after Mr. Bradley, and I sent for you because I want to help
							you."
						Something within Clifford leaped at this announcement of the entirely unexpected
							purpose that had prompted her note. She wanted that they should work together! But he
							restrained the warm words which tried to press indiscreetly past his lips.
						"I'll be glad to have you," he said, as calmly as he could. "Your brother is not the
							only person Bradley is after. He's after Commissioner Thorne, and he's after me."
						"Why?"
						"He's after the Commissioner because he wants the Commissioner's job--and wants the
							increased money there.would be in a more free alliance with criminals. And he's after
							me for the simple reason that he doesn't love me."
						"Have you any idea what his plan is?"
						"Not definitely. But whatever Bradley's plan may be," Clifford went on, "it will show
							us one thing, if we find our way inside it: and that is, how a great police official
							can twist people and events to his purposes."
						Mary Regan did not at once respond. She had kept her face composed and cold, but now
							there was a look which caught Clifford's eye and puzzled  him--an ever so slight a twitching of her features, as though she might be
							experiencing a momeent of irresolution. Clifford wondered what was going on within
							that strange young mind--and his thoughts flashed over her career, her upbringing. She
							had been--still was, perhaps--a philosophic, principled transgressor against property.
							The sophistries and arguments which, in her early girlhood, she had heard put forward
							by the little court that had gathered about her father, "Gentleman Jim" Regan, and
							about her uncle, Joe Russell--these she had passionately accepted and passionately
							believed.
						Clifford wondered whether she still held to this gospel--or whether his endeavors to
							influence her proud spirit indirectly had brought some change. And he wondered, too,
							what behind that cold front was her attitude toward himself.
						Clifford's mind had ranged much territory, but Mary Regan had actually been silent
							for no more than a moment. "When I offered to help you, Mr. Clifford, against Mr.
							Bradley I had a definite plan."
						"Yes?"
						"I don't need to tell you that the gamblers want to open up for business again."
						"Yes, I know how sore they are at Thorne for rigidly enforcing the law."

						

						"It's about one of these gamblers that I wanted to see you."
						"Which one?"
						"Philip Morgan."
						"Philip Morgan!"
						Clifford started at the name of the most famous of New York gamblers--the intimate of
							national politicians and of millionaire sportsmen--the art connoisseur whose
							collection of paintings would doubtless, some day, in some manner, find place in the
							Metropolitan Museum. If Morgan was doing anything, it would certainly be big!
						"What about Morgan?" he asked.
						"He's negotiating with Mr. Bradley for protection to enable him to open up."
						"How do you know this?"
						"Mr. Morgan isn't the only one concerned. There is a syndicate forming. When several
							persons are concerned there is likely to be a leak."
						"And your Uncle Joe? I beg pardon," Clifford said hastily. "I had no right to ask
							about him."
						"Uncle Joe has been approached," she returned in her unvarying neutral tone. "I don't
							know what he's going to do. But if he went into it, I wouldn't do anything to cross
							him."
						At that moment a servant entered the drawing-room and told Mary that she was wanted
							on the telephone. She returned within a few minutes.

						

						"It was a message for Uncle Joe. It said tell him to be at The Sultan's Garden on
							Surf Avenue at eleven o'clock."
						"Surf Avenue--that's Coney Island!" Clifford glanced at his watch. "it's ten now!" he
							cried hastily. "I don't want to mess up Joe Russell--but this may lead to something,
							and I'll have to hurry. Good night."
						"Wait. I told you I also was after Mr. Bradley, and I want a share in his punishment.
							I'm going, too, and we'll go in my car"--and before Clifford could put in a word she
							was telephoning the garage.

					

					

						III

						Two minutes afterward, in the big touring car which she and her uncle had hired by
							the month as an item of their soberly pretentious establishment, they were purring
							through East Side streets--across Manhattan Bridge, below it the city a wide field
							a-blossom with lights--and soon they were running along Ocean Parkway, the great car
							hardly more murmurous than the summer wind. All the while Mary Regan, wordless, sat
							looking straight before her, her face now mistily obscured, now eclipsed, by her
							fluttering veil. But during those minutes of swift flight Clifford did not mind her
							silence. The present situation was the very apex, the very quintessence, of his
							immediate desire--  to work with Mary Regan against
							Chief Bradley! His eager brain, leaping forward, perceived bold and dear possibilities
							developing from this new intimacy.
						They swept into the glare, the crude color, the vast uproar of mechanical music, the
							jostling of half a million pleasure-seekers--which constitute the outer personality of
							Coney Island upon a warm night. The Sultan's Garden was one of those flimsy stucco
							palaces wherein a very thin beer is hurriedly served the multitude by sweat-beaded
							waiters; and wherein, as Clifford knew, superior drink and superior food can be had by
							the initiate. Clifford, his senses now all on the case, instinctively admired the
							keenness of this choice of a rendezvous: here all the world came together--any
							meeting, incongruous or suspicious elsewhere, would pass as mere coincidence.
						Watching sharply, with Mary beside him, he started through the more select doorway,
							down a side street. But he suddenly halted, just as the doorman, dressed like the
							court chamberlain of a five-and-ten-cent store, was gesturing welcome. Across the
							great bright room he saw the tight-lipped, high-bred face of Phil Morgan; and with
							Morgan sat Joseph Russell.
						"Your uncle must have got the message after all!" Clifford ejaculated in a
							whisper.

						

						"Yes," breathed Mary.
						"I wish you'd keep him out of this thing."
						"I will--even if he has to renege."
						"Perhaps we'd better not run the risk of being seen here together--and even I'd
							prefer not to be seen."
						Mary agreed; and, refusing Clifford's offer to accompany her, she went back to the
							car. Clifford, seemingly careless, stepped cautiously within. An orchestra of
							perspiring negroes, turbaned and in Turkish costumes, was twanging from those negroid
							instruments, the guitar and banjo, such native airs of Araby as were composed by
							Irving Berlin and his rivals for the rag-time kingship. The raison
								d'tre of the restaurant's name of The Sultan's Garden, aided Clifford
							greatly--the rows of palms, abetted by incongruous privet trees. He slipped to a
							little iron table under the shelter of Turkish greenery from a Long Island nursery,
							and ordered a club sandwich and the necessary beer.
						He watched Morgan and Russell closely, momentarily expecting to see Bradley join the
							pair with every appearance of surprised casualness. Clifford had small professional
							interest in the pair he observed; he preferred not to catch Joe Russell, if he
							honestly could avoid it; and he cared comparatively little about making out a case
							against Morgan. In fact, he was interested at the present moment  very little in gambling; its proper handling was a problem for a later
							time, when the police force should be organized upon a sounder basis. Just now
							gambling interested him only as a means to an end--getting the goods on Bradley.
						He saw Russell, with a gesture of parting, leave Morgan; and he wondered if Morgan
							was going, too--but a waiter bringing a pail of ice-entombed champagne, which Morgan
							ordered to remain unopened answered this question. As Clifford's own subterfuge of a
							supper was set before him, some one dropped into the opposite chair.
						"I say, Tarleton," Clifford exclaimed, "what are you doing here? "
						"Making investigations for my Ph.D. thesis, on the relation of the yeast cell of beer
							upon the human cell in the evolution of Aryan civilization." After the waiter had
							gone, with a bewildered look Tarleton leaned across the tiny table. "I'm here on
							business, Bob. Since you didn't give me a chance to kill dull care with a little
							amateur detecting, I got the chance with some one else."
						"Who?"
						"Commissioner Thorne."
						"Oh!" Naturally Thorne would do anything, not conflicting with the Department's
							responsible work, to oblige his old friend Tarleton--concerning whose idle habits and
							inherent weaknesses, Clifford  knew Thorne to be as much
							concerned as was he himself. "Mind telling me what you're doing?"
						"Through playing around a bit with some of the big social sports, I've had a tip that
							some swell gambling joints are soon to open up. My job is to hang on with this bunch
							of spenders on the chance that I'll get some definite dope."
						"No objection, I suppose, to putting me next to anything you pick up?"
						"What's mine's yours, Bob. Motored out here with a crowd of them to-night, and I'd
							better be getting back to their table. So-long."
						"So-long."
						All this while Clifford had kept watch upon Morgan. He now saw a waiter come up and
							speak to the great gambler, and saw Morgan cross and enter a telephone booth.
							Presently Morgan emerged, immediately paid his bill, and walked with his usual repose,
							behind which Clifford sensed haste, out the wide main entrance.
						With an appearance of equal repose, but with equal haste, Clifford got back to the
							car in which Mary waited, keeping an eye all the while on Morgan making toward a
							powerful limousine. A few quick words with Mary's chauffeur, and the chauffeur had ten
							dollars for an evening's diversion, and Clifford had on the chauffeur's dust-coat,  cap and goggles--and he and Mary were in the front seats.
							Only then did Clifford speak of the telephone message.
						"My guess is that it was from Bradley," he said, as they began to follow Morgan's
							car. "Perhaps Bradley changed his mind, and suggested meeting him another place. You
							were right--there's something doing--something big--no doubt of it!"
						After a mile or two upon the Parkway, Morgan turned to the right--Clifford alertly
							behind him at a discreet distance, thankful for the silence of his admirable
							motor--and soon was threading the ill- lighted streets of that terra
								incognita to the average New Yorker, the far and scattered fringe of farthest
							Brooklyn. On and on the big car ahead of them went, bearing constantly toward the
							north and east--until in a dark and soundly sleeping street in Canarsie it came to a
							sudden pause. Just as sharply Clifford slowed down. From the doorway of an unlighted
							tenement some one crossed swiftly to Morgan's car and stepped into the open door,
							which instantly closed. But there was no mistaking that square powerful figure.
						"Bradley--you're right!" exulted Clifford, his every suspicion definitely confirmed
							by this remote and secret meeting.
						The big limousine shot forward again, Clifford  still
							at his discreet distance, and kept its tacking course toward the north and east.
							Clifford figured excitedly what the destination of the pair ahead might be--whether
							they were going to meet others in conference, and how he might manage to be an unseen
							auditor to the gigantic conference he now knew to be under way--when Morgan's car
							turned into that splendid highway which, leaving Manhattan over the Fifty-ninth Street
							Bridge, permeates with its innumerable arteries of polished macadam the far eastern
							reaches of Long Island. Instantly Morgan's car sprang away; Clifford turned on more
							power, and thrilled at the manner in which his car matched speed with speed. Thus they
							flashed through the night, mile after mile--until, without warning, Clifford's machine
							slowed down.
						"What's the matter with the car?" cried Mary, in tones of dismay.
						"The car's all right--it's a wonder. The trouble's with me--I only just now tumbled
							to their plan. They can ride Long Island for hours like that--talk things over--no one
							can get near them--and Morgan can drop Bradley wherever Bradley likes. We've learned
							all we're going to; it's home for us."
						They rode back in what to Clifford was tonic nearness, through the magic of the
							summer night;  and toward two o'clock Clifford left Mary
							at the old mansion near Washington Square.
						"I'm sorry I got you out on such an empty piece of business," said Mary at
							parting.
						"We'll win in the end!" he declared warmly. "You gave me the right start--I'd be
							nowhere without that!"
						Under the stimulus of their long ride side by side--the first time, since their
							steamship days, that they had been together without latent or open hostility--under
							the stimulus of the late summer hour when she and he on the stoop seemed to inhabit
							the world alone, and when the shadows had mellowed the cold outlines of her face to a
							softer beauty--Clifford was almost mastered by an impulse to go on and say something
							more. But he held back the premature words and went away, in his heart a double hope
							and a double exultation.

					

					

						IV

						From the night of that drive Clifford discarded what had been his first purpose, to
							discover Bradley's secret plan against Commissioner Thorne; and concentrated upon his
							second purpose, to get the goods upon Bradley. The second would serve the same end;
							and furthermore, just now, it seemed more promising--even better, it gave him the
							chance to work with Mary Regan.

						

						For the next five days, during every waking hour, every trained faculty of Clifford
							was directed to seeking the further developments of that secret conference in the
							flying car between Bradley and Morgan. He kept in touch with Tarleton; Tarleton, at
							his request, continued mixing with those free-spending men-about-town; Clifford had a
							hope that there might be unguarded words, and that Tarleton, in this company, might
							pick up valuable clues--and in fact Tarleton did bring him rumors that seemed more
							definite. Also Clifford engaged private detective agencies to keep him informed of
							Bradley's and Morgan's every move.
						But it was not from his own tireless watching and thought, nor from any of these
							other sources, that Clifford got his next assistance. Again aid came from Mary
							Regan.
						At ten o'clock on the fifth night, while Clifford sat in his little apartment waiting
							an expected call from Tarleton, his telephone rang. Mary Regan was on the wire.
							Rapidly she told him to get into old clothes and a rain-coat, and in ten minutes be
							waiting at an appointed corner.
						Clifford reached the rendezvous just as the well-remembered car, its hood now up and
							rain-shield in place, swung in beside the curb. Mary Regan, alone in the car, was
							driving. Clifford stepped quickly in and took the wheel from her.

						

						"Where to?" he asked.
						"Pine Crest Manor."
						"What's that, and where is it?"
						"It's in New Jersey; we cross at the Fort Lee Ferry." And after Clifford had started
							the car northward she continued: "It's a suburb, or it started out to be. But after
							they built the land agent's office, the company failed, and the office is the only
							building on the property or near it. Mr. Bradley and Mr. Morgan are going to meet
							there at eleven o'clock."
						"What! ... How did you find out?"
						"You know things come to me. I only learned of this just before I called you up--I
							came myself because there was no time to waste. I really ought not to be telling you
							what I have, only "--there came a hard note in her voice--"I want to get square with
							Bradley!"
						"Do you know the way to Pine Crest Manor?"
						"Yes. Uncle Joe and I have been out there often. He thought of buying the place to
							turn it into a chicken-farm; he says he's going into chicken- farming some day. we've
							got to hurry, though--we should get there before the two men."
						They crossed the ferry at One Hundred and Thirtieth Street, and after half an hour's
							run through the black windless summer rain, Mary directed Clifford into a neglected
							rutty driveway,  and back into a thin plantation of
							scrawny second-growth pine. Here, at Mary's suggestion, their lamps dark, they
							remained in the machine waiting the arrival of the others. It was an admirable place
							for a secret meeting, Clifford subconsciously recorded--isolated, and far off the good
							roads frequented by automobiles.
						Presently, through the soft silence of the rain, they heard a car purring down the
							driveway, and dead branches crackle beneath its wheels. A little later similar sounds
							announced that another car was arriving.
						Mary and Clifford waited tensely for several minutes; then Mary whispered:
						"They'll be in the house by now--we 'd better go."
						The light summer rain had stopped. With Mary leading the way, they crept through the
							tall, clinging weeds of what some bankrupt enthusiast had dreamed would be priceless
							building lots, until they neared a small square of blackness several tones deeper than
							the blackness of the night--and Clifford knew that they had reached the temporary
							office of what was to have been the exclusive suburb of Pine Crest Manor. Cautiously
							they got into the shelter of its walls. Through a break in the low-drifting clouds the
							moon shone briefly, and Clifford could make out that the office was the usual flimsy
								 pine shack of its kind, its window panes all gone,
							probably through having served as targets for small boys bent upon improving youth's
							own variety of preparedness.
						Crouched with Mary beneath one of the windows, Clifford heard voices within: the
							even, well modulated tones of Morgan, the gruffly resonant bass of Bradley. Clifford's
							conscious senses were all strained to catch the faintest word; but at the same time, a
							part of him rejoiced over this marvelous opportunity. Most successful detective work
							is careful, thoughtful, patient, sometimes dull, routine--just routine, and nothing
							more. But now and again, through what seems sheer good luck, the key, the very heart,
							the entire substance, of a case is laid in the police official's hands. This present
							seemed to Clifford to be one of those rare turns of fortune.
						The pair within were already touching upon business. "Thought Joe Russell was to be
							here. what's the matter--ain't he coming in?" The voice that drifted through the
							shattered window was Bradley's heavy bass.
						"I haven't been able to get Russell down to cases."
						"But the others are sticking?"
						"Yes. And they're the safest men in New York for a deal of this kind."

						

						"Let Russell stay out then and be damned to him," growled Bradley.
						"You've got everything worked out so we'll be protected? Thorne won't bother us--or
							that Clifford? "
						"Thorne!" Bradley's voice was a snort of disgust. "Thorne don't know whether it's
							yesterday or day after to-morrow! And Clifford--you leave Clifford to me!" An
							instant's silence to let that assurance sink in, then: "Oh, you'll get all the
							protection you pay for--only you remember what I said. you've all got to run quiet,
							classy joints; and you've got to be mighty careful how you get your suckers in, and
							not bring in so many any night that they'll rouse the suspicions of some damned
							ordinary copper. Do it quiet, like I say, and the men I got assigned to this detail
							will never see nothing and will never bother you."
						"We're all agreed on running things that way. But "--a little pause--" we all think
							ten thousand a month is too much to pay you for protection."
						"Too much!" cried Bradley sharply. "You forget I've got to pass part of the dough on
							to some of my men."
						"It's too much," Morgan repeated.
						"What do you mean, damn you," snapped Bradley. "This town's better picking for you
							sure-thing guys than the Klondike in its wildest days. 
							You know the place is belly-full of easy money--made over night on these here war
							profits--and most of it in the hands of money-drunk boobs who've won big once on a
							long shot, and are crazy to buck any kind of a game. It's the biggest and richest
							chance you've seen since you flipped your first card."
						"Ten thousand 's too much," repeated Morgan's quiet voice.
						"Damn you, Phil Morgan--just for saying that it's going to cost you fifteen thousand
							for every damned month in the damned year! Those are my terms, and I go to the mat
							with you on that proposition. And you try to open up, and I'll smash every joint and
							I'll put away every man I grab for the longest stretch I can get handed him."
						They wrangled on for several minutes; Morgan quiet, Bradley belligerent; and in the
							end the figure settled on was fifteen thousand.
						"What's more," continued Bradley, "you're going to pay that dough to me personally.
							Get that? In a big deal like this I'm not going to run the risk of any crooked
							collector crossing me or holding out part of the coin. And another thing, Morgan, this
							is the last time I'm going to sneak off and meet you in private. it's too dangerous.
							When I meet you again, I'll meet you in public."

						

						"That suits me. But how'll you arrange it?"
						"I guess if United States senators, and Wall Street pirates, and these society
							chiefs, ain 't hurt by being seen with you, it ain't going to hurt me a lot to open a
							bottle of mineral water at the table you're sitting at. Everything's settled; we've
							got nothing to talk about that it won't be safe for six million New Yorkers to listen
							in on. The only business left between us is collecting the dough."
						"Yes, but how are you going to do that in public?"
						"You'll be readied up with the first month's fifteen thousand by to-morrow
							night?"
						"Yes."
						"Be on the Olympic Roof at twelve o'clock. I join you. You offer me a cigar. I take
							it and stick it in my pocket and say I'll first finish the one I've just,lit. Now get
							this. The cigar which I'll have stuck in my clothes will be one of these toy-joke
							affairs--you've seen 'em--a paper shell, hollow, with a tobacco leaf wrapper. Inside
							that cigar you give me will be fifteen thousand bucks. And the whole damned roof,
							looking on, will only know that you've handed me a cigar."
						There was further talk, but it concerned less important matters; and presently, first
							one car, then the other, started through the night toward New York. Clifford and Mary
							allowed a good margin  of time for safety, then went
							back to their own machine and got under way.
						Clifford was athrill with such elation as he had not known since he had first started
							on his long trail after Bradley. What Bradley had said about rich opportunities for
							big gamblers was perfectly true; what he had said about being able to give protection
							to resorts quietly conducted was also true; and the price he had mentioned was,
							considering the extraordinary conditions prevailing, a reasonable rake-off. It was all
							true--all solid. And capping this great clever scheme, was the idea of passing the
							money in public view. And the climax of the whole affair was that business of the
							hollow cigar.
						It was wonderful! Bradley, though a scoundrel, was a genius, and this was Bradley's
							masterpiece! Only--
						Just as that fortune-loaded cigar was being slipped carelessly into a vest pocket,
							there would be a little arresting bee. And he, Robert Clifford, ex-lieutenant
							detective, discharged and dishonored by Bradley's machinations, would be fore-figure
							and main power of his great chief's gigantic downfall.
						Mary Regan must have sensed Clifford's thoughts, for she said:
						"I'd like to be there when you make the arrest."

						

						"You are invited to have supper with me tomorrow night on the Olmypic Roof," Clifford
							cried, almost gaily.
						"Thank you." Then after another silence: "After what Bradley has done to him, don't
							you think Commissioner Thorne should be there too?"
						"It wouldn't do for him to be one of our party. But sure--I'll see that the
							Commissioner is in on the finish!"
						And when Clifford left Mary at the old house that night, he had never felt himself
							quite so near a perfect triumph

					

					

						V

						Only mechanically did Clifford listen to the orchestra of the Olympic Roof, which was
							fiddling popular numbers from the hot-weather musical shows; and only mechanically did
							he note the "Dance of Summer" which was being executed in the cleared center of the
							roof by a dozen show-girls in costumes ranging from a bathing-suit worn with French
							heels, to complete and bewildering board-walk regalia; and only mechanically did he
							observe the audience of out-of-town buyers who were seeing New York as the old town
							really was--never guessing, these visitors, that life for the great mass of New
							Yorkers is a respectable, hard-working, home-staying business. All this was to
							Clifford  only the setting for what was to be the final
							scene of his long conflict with Bradley. What he was acutely conscious of was Mary
							Regan across the table from him, and of the hope that in working together they had
							worked nearer to each other; and also of that finished gentleman, Philip Morgan,
							beyond a row of privet, alone, a second chair tilted suggestively forward against his
							little table--and reposing in his pocket that momentous cigar.
						It was growing on toward Bradley's appointed hour of twelve when Tarleton came
							weaving toward them among the tables. Clifford noted that Tarleton looked harried,
							even more pale than usual; the life his old friend had slipped into was wasting him
							deplorably.
						Tarleton bowed to Mary, then turned to Clifford. "Commissioner Thorne 'phoned me he
							was going to meet you here."
						"He'll be showing up almost any time."
						"I've got to hurry along, but I want to leave a message for the Commissioner." He
							handed Clifford a sealed envelope. "See that he gets that, though it's nothing very
							important. So-long, Bob."
						"Wait." Clifford slipped the envelope into his pocket and led Tarleton aside. "Old
							man," he said gravely, "I hope you've broken with Clarice Langhorne as you
							promised?"

						

						"I'm going to, Bob--don't you worry." He tried to speak lightly, but Clifford could
							discern worry and tense strain.
						"You've got to do it at once, and do it the right way--or she'll make trouble between
							you and Margaret. And despite your infatuation for Miss Langhorne, I know Margaret
							means the world to you."
						"You're some preacher, Bob!" Tarleton forced a laugh. "It's going to be all right, I
							tell you."
						Clifford, uneasy in his mind, watched his friend walk away, then returned to Mary
							Regan. The showgirls, in single file, headed by the girl in bathing-suit and French
							heels, and brought up by the large parasolled blonde in full board-walk paraphernalia,
							were prancing through geometric designs, and singing, in the squawky nasal voices
							which managers judge to be the delight of out-of-town buyers, the refrain of "If You
							Had Your Pick of a Summer Girl, Now I Know you'd All Pick Me--Pick Me!" Mary was
							gazing at the routine coquettishness of the dozen with that reserved look which had so
							puzzled Clifford during the days of their partnership. He eyed her with his
							unquenchable curiosity--so much true instinct, so much fine emotion, so much
							individuality, so much perversity of view-point--and again he  wondered which was going to rule her in the end.
						But his attention had been off his real duty here no more than a moment. He glanced
							beyond the screen of privet: Morgan still sat imperturbably alone. Clifford looked at
							his watch; five minutes of twelve.
						When Clifford looked up, Commissioner Thorne, in evening clothes, was approaching
							their table.
						"Is everything going all right?" he asked, pausing, and bowing to Mary.
						"Looks so," said Clifford. "Bradley is due almost any minute, and then there 'll be
							that stage play of the cigar."
						"I'll be watching from my table; I have one reserved "--and. the Commissioner started
							on.
						"Mr. Clifford," Mary put in quickly, "you are forgetting Mr. Tarleton's message."
						"Oh, yes, Commissioner. Tarleton asked me to give you this," and Clifford handed over
							the envelope.
						"What can Tarleton be wanting," remarked Thorne, starting to tear open the
							envelope.
						"See, those girls are through," Mary Regan broke in, impulsively it seemed, "and the
							crowd is starting to dance. Mr. Tarleton said that letter wasn't important. Mr.
							Thorne," she challenged, "come on, let's show them how to dance."
						Clifford was surprised at this overture from a 
							law-breaker to the chief of police. Thorpe smiled--a distinguished and pleasant
							smile.
						"I couldn't show them a thing, Miss Regan. I don't know these modern steps. Ask Mr.
							Clifford."
						"I don't care to dance with Mr. Clifford. To tell the truth, I didn't really want to
							dance with you. I wanted a chance to talk with you a minute, alone."
						"That's easy." Thorne slipped Tarleton's letter into an inner pocket of his coat.
							"Excuse us, Clifford; Miss Regan and I are going to smell the flowers."
						He gave Mary his arm and they moved apart to the high stone coping of the roof,
							topped with geraniums and daisies and ivy, and Mary began to talk rapidly in a low
							voice. Clifford wondered what the talk was about--and wondered again about the
							relationship between these two--and wondered what Thorne's interest was in this
							girl--and why Thorne, had assigned him to keep track of her activities. And tense as
							he was over the approaching scene with Bradley, he could not help remarking the clear
							lines of Mary's profile against the star-blooming sky.
						Clifford's attention was brought sharply from the pair by a nervous hand clutching
							his shoulder. There stood Tarleton, paler than before.

						

						"I say, old man"--he began agitatedly, then stopped.
						Thorne must have noted Tarleton's entrance, for with Mary Regan he was now back
							beside the table.
						"What's the matter, Tarleton?"
						"Bradley has broken loose," said Tarleton. "He's made two or three sudden raids."
						"His old game," said Clifford--"a big splurge of virtue to hide his own crookedness.
							But why should that bother you?"
						"I ran into him a few minutes ago--he threatened me--"
						"But he can't do anything to you," interrupted Clifford.
						"Of course not," said Thorne. " But what was his threat?'
						"He said he'd get me."
						"Get you? What for?"
						"I don't know, unless it's because he knows I'm working with you two."
						"See here, old man, don't let Bradley worry you--"
						But Clifford's encouragement was broken off by Tarleton's suddenly backing away,
							taking shelter as in fear behind the group and staring beyond them. Clifford turned in
							the direction of Tarleton's gaze. There was Bradley, and not headed toward the waiting
							Philip Morgan, but bearing  down upon them. And behind
							Bradley was a little group, all of whom Clifford knew: two star reporters from morning
							papers and a reporter from the City Press Association; three plain-clothesmen, and in
							their custody two gamblers--one that same Louis Gordon who, almost a year before, had
							played a part in Clifford's disgrace and discharge.
						Bradley ignored Clifford. "Good-evening, Mr. Commissioner," he said with extreme
							respect. "I'm sorry to have to butt in like this. But I've got to do my duty."
						"What do you want, Bradley?"
						Bradley fixed his small brilliant eyes on Tarleton.
						"I want you, Mr. Tarleton," he said in a low driving voice.
						"Want Tarleton! What for?" demanded Clifford.
						"He knows what for," returned Bradley. "Tarleton, are you going to show respect for
							your friends by coming along quietly?"
						"You mean--I'm under arrest?" breathed Tarleton--and Clifford, bewildered, noted that
							Tarleton was yet more pale, and now was trembling.
						"You sure are!" said Bradley.
						Tarleton seemed to recover a degree of his confidence, though there was perceptible
							bluster in his voice.

						

						"I demand to know on what charge?"
						"You know what you've done, all right! Now are you going to come along quietly, or
							are you going to try to smear your friends by making a scene?"
						"Wait a minute, Bradley," put in Thorne. "Tarleton has a right to know the charge.
							And if he has done anything, I'd like to know it, too."
						"Just as you say, Mr. Commissioner. The fact is, Commissioner Thorne, your friend
							here"--he turned to Tarleton, his voice harshly accusatory-- "has been taking
							advantage of his friendship for you and has been smearing you in the crookedest,
							rottenest way that you could be smeared!"
						"It's a lie!"
						Clifford, gazing at his old friend, saw that a look of guilt had come into Tarleton's
							twitching, handsome face--and Clifford wondered, with sickening fear, what was about
							to break over the head of the man he had tried so earnestly to help. And his gaze,
							also taking in Mary Regan, noted that her erect figure was rigid and that she was
							breathing rapidly.
						"What is it, Bradley?" Thorne sharply demanded.
						"You know, Mr. Commissioner, that Mr. Tarleton has been spending beyond his income,
							has been hard up for cash."

						

						"Go on."
						"And you know how anxious the gamblers have been to open, with all this easy money
							begging to be picked up."
						"Go on."
						Clifford's mind tried to leap ahead, seeking the drift of this affair. Bradley,
							gazing hard at Tarleton, spoke more slowly, driving every word home.
						"Needing money, your screwy swell friend here doped out this game: He 'd been seen a
							lot in public with you--restaurants, in your car, other places. He built on that, and
							got in touch with gamblers, told them he had a pull with you, that he was your private
							representative--that he'd fix things so a few of them could open up and not be
							bothered by you, if they'd come across with enough dough. Commissioner, for over a
							month Tarleton has been pretending to be your collector and has collected protection
							money from a dozen gambling joints."
						"It's a lie!" Tarleton exclaimed huskily.
						There was a moment of silence. Tarleton's look, his manner--yes, and the remembrance
							of his strange behavior the last few days--all told Clifford that Tarleton was in some
							degree a guilty man. And whether Bradley's charge was true or not, Clifford realized
							that nothing would have been easier than for Tarleton to have done exactly what
							Bradley had charged--for the professional New  York
							gambler has an eager ingrained desire to pay for protection to any man who possesses
							any semblance of authority or "pull."
						"Tarleton, what have you got to say?" Thorne demanded.
						"It's a lie!" Tarleton repeated.
						"Mr. Commissioner, I just happen to have here two gamblers I pinched who have
							confessed to having paid Tarleton as your collector." He turned to the pair. "How
							about it?"
						Both surlily admitted having paid.
						"And it was all paid on Tarleton's definite promise that he would guarantee the
							privilege to run without interference from Commissioner Thorne. Besides," continued
							Bradley, "I have three other gamblers under arrest who have confessed to the same
							thing. And Officer Sampson, who is with the other squad, saw money passed this evening
							to Tarleton."
						Thorne's features had grown more stern as the evidence piled up with Bradley's slow
							recital. And with the look now on Tarleton's face, no denial could have a moment's
							consideration.
						"Tarleton!" exclaimed the Commissioner.
						Tarleton slumped down into a chair, and buried his face in his hands.
						"Tarleton," cried Thorne, and Clifford had never before seen him in such a withering
							anger, "I knew  you were an idler and a spender, but
							I've tried to stand by you for old friendship's sake--and for your wife's sake--and
							because I believed you had at bottom some good qualities--and I hoped you'd sometime
							take a brace. And now, to think of your using my friendship to betray me personally,
							to betray my ideas and administration, all for the sake of some rotten money!
							Tarleton, you're cheaper than the cheapest thief, you're meaner than the most cowardly
							murderer, you're a damned--"
						"Stop!" cried Tarleton, springing up. "I'll not stand that from you!"
						"Stand what?"
						"that's too much to take!" Tarleton cried wildly--and Clifford had a sickening
							premonition that something here was going very wrong. "I'd have gone through with this
							and have taken my medicine, and never said a word. I was willing to be the goat for
							you, but I'll be damned if I'll be your goat with your turning on me like that!"
						"Be my goat?" repeated the Commissioner.
						"Yes, your goat! I've been collecting--sure; I can't deny it, since I was caught with
							the goods on. But whatever I've done, I've done as your
							collector!"
						"My collector," repeated Thorne, almost stupidly. Clifford now almost perceived
							whither this business  was swiftly tending--but not
							quite. He saw that guests of the roof garden were crowding excitedly about; and he saw
							the three newspaper men press forward, with that alertness peculiar to star reporters
							when a big story is about to break.
						"Your collector, yes!" Tarleton called across at Thorne. "I've done your dirty work
							long enough--you posing as a square chief! Why, every dollar I've collected, and I've
							collected thousands, I've turned over to you!"
						"Close your trap, Tarleton!" Bradley snapped at him, roughly seizing his shoulder.
							"Come along. You know you're lying."
						"Oh, I'm lying, am I!" retorted Tarleton, in his frenzied manner. "Of course all you
							policemen hang together! Wait--wait," he cried frantically as Bradley tried to lead
							him away, "I can prove what I say ! Our regular plan has been for me to turn the money
							over to Clifford, and for Clifford to turn it over to Thorne. I gave Clifford money
							half an hour ago. If you want proof, look on Thorne or on Clifford!"
						"Commissioner, I don't believe a word this rat says," put in Bradley.
						"I tell you to look! I dare you to ask Clifford! Or ask Miss Regan!"
						Clifford did not yet understand it all--but he infallibly sensed this, that Tarleton,
							driven by some  resistless power gained over him by
							Bradley, had for days been doing, and was now doing, a carefully thought-out piece of
							acting--and he had a swift sense of the character of the envelope which Tarleton had
							passed to him and which he had passed to Thorne.
						"After all, Commissioner," said Bradley apologetically, "perhaps the best way to
							quiet this lunatic, is to show him up for the liar that he is. Clifford, did he give
							you anything?"
						Clifford kept his lips grimly closed.
						"Very well, Clifford. Miss Regan, did you see Tarleton give Clifford anything?"
						For the last few minutes Mary Regan had seemingly been no more than a looker-on at
							this scene, a forgotten supernumerary. Clifford now turned upon her. Her face had
							become, if anything, more strained, but she did not at once reply to Bradley's query.
							A faint but sharp suspicion leaped swiftly into life within Clifford.
						"Miss Regan, you heard my question?" demnanded Bradley.
						"I saw Mr. Tarleton give Mr. Clifford an envelope," said Mary.
						"What did Mr. Clifford do with it?"
						"I saw him give it to Mr. Thorne."
						"Commissioner," Bradley said respectfully, "I think there's nothing but bluff--"

						

						"Here it is." Thorne, pale but composed, drew the envelope from his coat and handed
							it to Bradley. "Open it."
						"Since you say so--" and Bradley with a blunt forefinger ripped open the envelope. He
							drew forth a fold of bills. These he swiftly counted, then looked steadily at Thorne.
							"Commissioner, here are ten thousand dollars."
						There was a moment of profound silence among the group. For that moment all was a
							blur to Clifford. Though even yet he could not understand the whole of it, at last he
							dazedly perceived the great essential fact. He and Thorne had been framed, admirably
							framed; and, in the persons of those three reporters, had been framed with all New
							York as witnesses to their guilt!
						"Sorry, Mr. Commissioner," Bradley began in reluctant voice, "but--"
						"Clifford and I'll go with you," Thorne interrupted sharply yet quietly.
						Through the blur Clifford became conscious that Mary Regan was looking at him: and he
							saw that the controlled look which had puzzled him so often these last few days was
							now discarded, and that she was openly smiling at him--smiling at him in vindictive
							triumph. That taunting smile was as an all-revealing flash of lightning in the night.
							He sprang forward and seized her bare forearm.

						

						"So--you've been behind it all!" he exclaimed. He felt her tremble, the smile faded;
							then her body tensed, and the taunting smile returned, and she looked him squarely in
							the face. But she did not speak.
						"So you've been fooling with me--double-crossing me! That ride to Coney Island--that
							night at Pine Crest Manor--it was just to draw me off the real case and pull me into
							this! You--you--" Clifford could not find words for his wrathful revulsion, and his
							anger could only vent itself by gripping her arm cruelly, brutally. But she did not
							flinch, though the pain must have been piercing.
						"Come on, Clifford," put in the voice of Thorne.
						"God--and I thought you were square!"
						Roughly Clifford flung Mary's arm away, and giving the pale Tarleton a contemptuous
							glance, he strode from the roof behind his superior--leaving Mary standing stiff and
							very straight beside the table, the taunting smile still on her pale face.

					

					

						VI

						The next day, Clifford, released on heavy bail after having been held for General
							Sessions at his preliminary hearing, hurried to his little apartment. After a
							scrub--he could not scrub away that sensation of all-permeating uncleanness that  a night in a cell deposits in the system of a normal
							human being--he sat down and went through the morning papers.
						The newspapers had made of the affair the stupendous sensation he had foreseen. And
							what material they had! New York's Chief of Police, who pretended to advanced ideas,
							had been caught red-handed at the ancient game of graft. His chief agent had been his
							own friend, that well-known society man and lawyer, Stanley Tarleton--who,
							apprehended, and overcome by remorse, was now the chief witness for the state; and
							another of his chief agents was that discredited ex-Lieutenant Detective Clifford.
							Chief of Detectives Bradley, tireless guardian of the public safety, had quite
							accidentally stumbled upon this astounding irregularity of his superior. Thorne would
							undoubtedly be removed; and the citizens of New York would certainly demand that
							Bradley be elevated to the position of Commissioner which by his service he so
							eminently deserved. The case, if all went as now seemed probable, would result in long
							prison sentences for Thorne and his alleged accomplice, Robert Clifford. ...
						Clifford had to admit that all that the papers stated as facts seemed facts, and that
							their prophecies (stated by innuendo, to avoid libel) would of a certainty have
							fulfilment--for he and Thorne 
							

								Clifford could not find words for his wrathful revulsion

							
							
							 had no scrap of evidence. Beyond a doubt Bradley would
							be the next head of the police department: the Mayor could not withstand the public
							demand, already mounting in a resistless wave.
						Clifford crushed and flung the papers from him. With chagrin almost beyond bearing he
							realized, more clearly than before, that that scene at Coney Island, that scene at
							Pine Crest Manor--with their details so convincingly in keeping with the character of
							a crooked police official--had all been carefully planned by Bradley, and staged and
							acted, for the sole sake of their effect upon himself--to excite his attention and
							possible suspicion away from Bradley's real design. It had all just been pretense--yet
							tremendously real and significant in that it was an example, to be sure the most
							elaborate and perfect within his experience, of the cunning he knew to be constantly
							practised for private ends within the Department. Clifford felt something akin to
							murder in his heart--and yet he also felt something akin to admiration for Bradley's
							perverted genius.
						Glowering, Clifford pondered the problems that confronted him. What lay behind
							Tarleton's strange action? Without doubt Bradley had made Tarleton his stool by
							gaining over him some compelling power--but what was that power? Search his mind as he
							would, Clifford could not discover  what it might be.
							But of a certainty, to have secured as the chief witness against Thorne and himself a
							man of social position and their own friend--that had been Bradley's master stroke.
							And what an effect it had had upon the public!
						And Clifford wondered whence had come that ten thousand dollars in real money. Some
							one had been willing to risk that much, and possibly very much more, to bring about
							his own and Thorne's destruction. But who? And did Bradley dominate the unknown, or
							did the unknown dominate Bradley?
						But most of all Clifford wondered at Mary Regan. One by one he went over all the
							details of the part that she had played; he saw how cleverly she had deceived him at
							every point; and he now perceived that her desire to speak to Thorne upon the Olympic
							Roof had been just a device to prevent the Commissioner from ruining Bradley's plan by
							opening the incriminating envelope. Why had she let herself become an instrument in
							this affair? Was it because she hated him? Was it from resentment for his balking her
							in various schemes? After his long and persistent hope that her criminal philosophy
							and her criminal intentions were not true expressions of her real nature, was her
							behavior final and indisputable evidence that these 
							qualities, and treachery with them, were ineradicably the very fiber of her real
							self?
						Clifford raged against himself for his foolishness in permitting himself to come to
							care for her, for his foolishness in treating her as he had done. His attempt to rouse
							the hypothetical good element in her to domination by preventing her from committing
							crime, by placing before her eyes crime's ugly side, had had only this for its direct
							result-- that she had turned against him and he was destroyed. God, what a fool of all
							fools he had been! . . .

					

					

						VII

						He was still raging, hours later, when the cell-like gloom of his little apartment
							was shattered by the ringing of his telephone. Mechanically he took up the
							receiver.
						"Well, what do you want?" he growled.
						The voice that came over the wire was Slant-Face Regan's.
						"I want to see you."
						"You--Slant-Face! I don't know that I want to see you, and I don't know that I want
							to see any of your kin! . . . Come along, though. You know my address."
						"I want to see you here."
						"Where are you?"

						

						Slant-Face gave the number of the house down near Washington Square.
						Clifford hesitated. Here was another surprise.
						"All right," he said, and hung up.
						Twenty minutes later he was admitted by a servant into the fine old mansion which
							Joseph Russell had leased furnished. The servant led Clifford up the broad carved
							staircase and into the shadowy rear drawing-room. As he entered, Slant-Face Regan rose
							from a chair.
						"What is it, Slant-Face?" Clifford demanded.
						The lean face, with its tilted mouth, of the ex-pickpocket met Clifford's hard gaze
							steadily.
						"I want to say, Clifford, that I'm just as sore as you are at the bunch that jobbed
							you," he said in his quiet voice. "But I didn't send for you for myself. Mary,"--only
							now did Clifford see that Mary was present--"you come across!" And without another
							word Slant-Face walked out.
						Mary was standing by the purple hangings of a tall window that gave out upon a tiny,
							old-fashioned garden. She looked at Clifford with fixed gaze; she did not speak, and
							there was a silence of several moments, each of the pair standing tensely motionless.
							Then for all his anger against her which for these dozen hours had eaten him like
							acid, Clifford moved to within a step of her. He now saw  that the young face was grayish in its pallor, and that her eyes were wide and set
							in deep shadows. The face was reserved, controlled as always--but the old obstinate
							pride, the self-will, so ready to flare into contempt and revolt, seemed to have
							burned itself down to ashes.
						"What is it?" he finally asked.
						Only with an effort did she lift herself out of her deep silence--and her voice was
							low, mechanical, almost colorless.
						"I did it in the first place because Mr. Bradley suggested it to me."
						That stark opening statement, bare of all preliminaries, almost took Clifford's
							breath.
						"I guessed as much," he said. "How? Why?"
						Her forced voice went on with its rote: "Mr. Bradley knew I'd do anything for my
							brother. He framed my brother and arrested him, so that he'd have some lever to use on
							me. He came to see me. He said he had a strong case and would send Jim away, unless
							I'd help him against you. He said I--I had influence with you and could handle you. He
							said if I'd help, he'd get my brother off. I agreed."
						"So--that's why you did it!" cried Clifford.
						"That's how I came to get into it," the low voice went on, "but it was the smallest
							of my reasons for doing what I did. My big reason was" 
							--she hesitated, then drove herself on--"I wanted to hurt you."
						"Wanted to hurt me!" repeated Clifford.
						"I thought it out, all last night--why I did it," she continued. "I had always kept
							telling myself that since you were a police officer you were the lowest kind of a
							crook--a hypocritical crook. I thought I was--very clever--and you kept coming in at
							the last and spoiling everything. I--I hated you."
						Dimly Clifford began to apprehend the possible drift of her talk--the possible
							magnitude of this quiet scene. He waited, breathless.
						"I resented your trying to change me," the muffled voice went on, her gray eyes never
							leaving his face. "And yet, several times--after you made that young paying-teller and
							Uncle Joe and me take back that suit-case of money--after what you did for
							Slant-Face--after you kept me from being trapped by Hawkins in that bank
							burglary--after you kept me from carrying through the affair of those Barbizon
							pictures--several times there were strange feelings--feelings I didn't understand--and
							I was afraid I might change. I didn't want to change. I didn't want you to have any
							influence over me."
						She paused--swallowed. Clifford put in no word. She continued:

						

						"So when Mr. Bradley made his proposition it seemed to me my big chance. All my old
							self said 'yes.' It seemed to me that if I could help ruin you, and then let you know
							what I had done--I'd get rid of those strange feelings, and the fear that I might
							change--and I'd get rid of you. And so--I did it."
						Her voice flickered out. Clifford, more and more awed as she had gone on, was too
							stirred to speak at once. Only now did it dawn upon him fully that this proud girl had
							sent for him to make a confession: such a confession as a proud woman might make--a
							confession for her own pride's sake--without sparing herself--and without any
							slightest touch of feminine emotion which might suggest that she confessed because she
							desired forgiveness. Clifford felt a swift leaping of the heart: the thing that he had
							striven for these many months was, perhaps, in some degree, after all coming to
							pass!
						"Yes?" he prompted.
						"While I was doing it, I would not let myself stop to think. But after it was all
							over, and I saw what I had done, I couldn't keep from thinking, and I--I was sick of
							myself. And I knew" --her voice trembled the least bit, then instantly regained its
							balance--"I knew that, for all my fighting, I had changed."

						

						"Changed?" he repeated.
						"I knew that I could not be what I used to be," she explained.
						Again Clifford thrilled. At last he understood the true significance of her behavior
							the past few days: it had been the last stand, the final struggle of the pride of Mary
							Regan for her old creed. And he had been right from the beginning in his estimate of
							her! She had always been, at bottom, just a normal young woman--more clever, more
							proud than the average--whose code was something fastened upon her from without by
							early training. And here was the strangest twist of all--that the experience which was
							to awaken her true self, of which he had so often dreamed, was her endeavor to aid in
							his own destruction!
						In his unmastered eagerness, daring words sprang past his lips.
						"And was another reason for doing what you did, that you cared for me and you wanted
							to destroy that caring?"
						She gave no sign that she had even heard him.
						"Another thing I wanted to tell you was that I'd like to undo what I have done. I
							think I can help you clear yourself--if you'd be willing to have me."
						"Willing to have you! " cried Clifford. "it's  a
							bargain--we'll do it together!" And eagerly he held out his hand.
						She retained her rigid posture by the purple hangings, made no motion to accept his
							hand--and Clifford had a moment's fear that she was about to utter something cheap,
							inane, such as the repentant woman of the stage is forever saying. But she laid her
							hand in his, merely remarking:
						"This time, I'll be on the square."
						Clifford, holding her hand, forgot that he was in disgrace, forgot the great struggle
							that lay ahead; was exultantly conscious, as he gazed into Mary's gray face with its
							steady dark eyes, of only one thing--that in his greatest defeat he had won at least
							the beginning of his greatest triumph.

					

				

				

				

					WITH THE GOODS ON

					

						I

						CLIFFORD and Mary Regan stood motionless amid the deep hush of the
							old mansion, gazing steadily at each other, the hand she had given him in seal of
							their compact closely held in his. Clifford still was thrilled by the confession she
							had just made, by her offer to help him clear himself and to share with him his long
							fight against Bradley-- and this time help him "on the square."
						Mary withdrew her hand and broke the long silence.
						"I don't know all the insides of the affair," she said. "The things I can tell you
							are really only scraps."
						"Any kind of scraps will help," Clifford's lips mechanically returned.
						His faculties, instead of being engaged upon the business of what should next be
							done, were still possessed by the amazing fact that Mary Regan was at last definitely
							on his side--that at last the fine woman he had always guessed to be concealed  beneath her youthful cynicism had definitely revealed
							herself.
						But in another moment his brain cleared to the urgent business that lay before
							them.
						"First, about that $10,000 which Tarleton handed to me and which I handed to
							Commissioner Thorne and which was found upon Thorne--and which caused Thorne's and my
							arrest and Bradley's triumph. Bradley never put that up; he's not so free with his own
							money. Do you know where the ten thousand came from?"
						"It was part of a fund raised by a syndicate."
						"A syndicate!"
						"Headed by that Mr. Philip Morgan. Only the big gamblers and confidence men are in
							it."
						"What was the money raised for?"
						"To do exactly what they did--get you and Commissioner Thorne out of the way. Till
							that was done, they could not operate."
						"Then they intend to operate!" Clifford cried eagerly.
						"You remember the talk we overheard between Mr. Bradley and Mr. Morgan night before
							last in that shack out at Pine Crest Manor?"
						"Yes. And I remember how I fell for it!"
						"You were intended to hear it, and you were intended to fall for it. Their plan then
							was a fake--a trap to catch you and Mr. Thorne. But what  they said was the truth, and their real plan is based upon what they talked over.
							Never before was there so much easy money in New York, recklessly made in war
							speculation and being recklessly spent; never before was there such a big chance for
							the gamblers and confidence men. Their first step was completed when they got rid of
							you and Mr. Thorne. Now that Mr. Bradley is Acting Commissioner of Police--he really
							engineered the whole affair-- they are preparing for the next step, and that is to
							begin business."
						"Great God, what a plan!" ejaculated Clifford--and for a moment he again gave
							grudging admiration to the daring and perverted genius of Bradley. "And that's how
							Bradley would use the Police Department! Tell me," he asked sharply, "do you know
							whether everything 's definitely settled between Bradley and Morgan, or this
							syndicate?"
						"As I said, I only know a few scraps, and I'm not absolutely sure even about them.
							But I think they had definitely arranged only the course against you and Commissioner
							Thorne. About the second part of their plan I think there are matters left to be
							settled."
						Clifford paced the old drawing-room in tense concentration; for those few moments he
							forgot that Mary Regan was present. Then he stopped before her abruptly.

						

						"We've got to get Bradley," he said rapidly, doggedly. "There's only one way ever to
							get him, and really get him. That's the same old way I've been trying all these
							months, and at which he's always managed to beat me. We've got to get him with the
							goods on!"
						She nodded.
						"To do that, we've got to follow Bradley in this next step--and see that, this time,
							he doesn't beat us. We've got to learn, somehow, what they're going to do."
						"It may be easier now, since he thinks he has got rid of you for good."
						"You mean he may be less watchful? Perhaps. that's one point in our favor. .... we've
							got to get on the inside of their plans. And to do that we've got to try first to
							break through at their weakest spot. Their weakest spot is Tarleton."
						Again Mary nodded.
						"Tarleton's our first job. Have you any idea how Bradley could get Thorne's old
							friend, and my friend since we were in college together, to take part in the frame-up
							against us? "
						"Mr. Bradley did it through Clarice Langhorne."
						Clifford eyed her keenly, remembering that only a few days before he had seen Mary
							and Clarice Langhorne in this same room, seemingly the best of friends--and
							remembering, too, that in the  unstable condition of
							their own friendship he had, not then dared presume to warn her.
						"I hope you have not let yourself get tangled up with Clarice Langhorne."
						"No. I was with her only because Mr. Bradley required that we should seem to be
							friends."
						"Bradley never does a thing without a reason. That friendship may turn out later to
							have a part in his plan. We'll have to watch out." Then he added: "Clarice Langhorne
							is a type that has become too unreal for the stage; she is extinct there. She exists
							only in real life--and there's an awful lot of her in the big restaurants and hotels
							of Broadway and Fifth Avenue, and in the apartments of Riverside Drive. there's
							nothing obvious about Clarice Langhorne--except that she's remarkably handsome, and
							remarkably well gowned, and remarkably clever in conversation--and all this helps make
							her about the most expert and successful adventuress I have ever met. I'm glad--mighty
							glad!--that you weren't taken in by her. And I hope I'm wrong in thinking that perhaps
							Bradley had some purpose in forcing you to be with her. . . . By the way, do you know
							whether she has any hold over Tarleton besides his infatuation for her?--and what
							Bradley's hold over her is?"
						"No, I do not."

						

						"That's what I've got to find out. I'm off for a scene with Tarleton--and it's going
							to be a hard piece of business. I'll report to you." He held out his hand. "Good-by.
							Working together, I'm sure we're going to win!"
						For a moment their hands again clasped. Then an easy, drawling voice sounded through
							the room's velvet silence.
						"Pardon me. I didn't know we had callers."
						Startled, they fell apart and turned. Standing just within the doorway of the
							drawing-room was the distinguished figure of Joseph Russell.
						"Oh, it's you, Bob," the old swindler continued pleasantly. "I didn't see who it was
							at first. Too bad, Bob, the way Bradley slipped it over on you again."
						But Mary spoke before Clifford could respond.
						"I've just been telling him about my part in it, Uncle Joe."
						Russell, who had been advancing toward them, halted.
						"Your part?" There was a sudden sharpness in his usually suave voice.
						"Yes, how I helped in framing him. And I've promised to help undo what I helped to
							do--to help him clear himself."
						"Oh, you have!"--with the same sharpness. "Has it occurred to you that Bradley might
							not  exactly like it if he learns that you are working
							with Clifford?"
						"I don't care!" she cried defiantly.
						"See here, Joe," Clifford put in impulsively, "you know a lot about Bradley, and you
							know he'd cross you in a second if it served his interest. Won't you come into this,
							and help us get him?"
						"Help you get Bradley!"
						Russell stared, amazement in his keen gray eyes. Then with the tone of ironic
							pleasantry which was a part of the old adventurer's character, he drawled:
						"Bob, unless you're down in front in about thirty seconds, your carriage will have
							turned back into mice and a pumpkin. Besides, Mary and I have something to talk over
							that's a bit private. So good night."
						Clifford was puzzled by Russell's manner. But as he went out Mary Regan gave him the
							look of a firm ally. That was the great thing: Mary Regan was now on his
							side--fighting!

					

					

						II

						Clifford had left word down in the office that any one calling should be shown right
							up; so sitting alone in the darkened parlor of the hotel suite he had taken in Clarice
							Langhorne's name, and which he had so carefully scented with Clarice Langhorne's
							characteristic heliotrope that Clarice herself  seemed
							present, he waited patiently. He was certain that his telegram sent over Clarice
							Langhorne's signature would bring Tarleton upon the minute--and while he waited he
							nervously went over his plan of procedure with his old friend who had betrayed
							him.
						At nine exactly there was a knock. Keeping within the door's shadow, Clifford opened
							it, and Tarleton stepped into the dark scented room. Clifford closed the door and
							stepped softly to one side to avoid the discovery of his identity that would come
							should Tarleton try to lay caressing hands upon him.
						"Back so soon?" said Tarleton. "Wasn't the part any good?"
						From Tarleton's tone Clifford knew the question was perfunctory, asked by the lips
							alone. Clifford remained silent, his hope that the unsuspecting Tarleton would let
							slip words which would give him a clue to this mysterious situation.
						"Tell me, Clarice," Tarleton went on, agitatedly, "have you had any word about the
							necklace? "
						Clifford moved slightly, but again said nothing.
						"You're still angry because I blamed you? don't be--please! I was out of my head.
							Can't you see how I felt about it?--I'm hard up, as you know, but I'd have raised the
							money somehow, and I'd ten times rather have bought you a new necklace  just as good than have had you tell Bradley of the
							theft!"
						A necklace--stolen--Bradley told of it! Excitement began to thrill through Clifford,
							but still he remained silent.
						"Really, you ought to understand how I felt about your reporting the theft to
							Bradley," Tarleton pleaded desperately. "Why, already I have the money for another
							necklace--even though it is part of the dirty price Bradley paid me for helping frame
							two friends." He waited a moment. "Why don't you say something, Clarice!" And then at
							the continued silence: "For God's sake, let's have some light anyhow!" And at the
							continued darkness: "I'll turn on the light myself!"
						At the sound of Tarleton's first footsteps, Clifford turned the key in the door and
							switched on the light. Tarleton stopped short.
						"Bob Clifford!" he breathed.
						"Yes, Stanley. Pardon my using Miss Langhorne's name to get you here, but I had to
							use some trick to manage a talk with you alone."
						"But Clarice Langhorne--where is she?"
						"She'll be on her way back from Atlantic City just as soon as she learns that that
							theatrical manager's telegram was a fake. It was pretty poor-- but it was the best
							thing I could think of to get her out of our way for a few hours."

						

						Tarleton stared at him, his face white and twitching; it was plain that the man was
							suffering a tearing agony.
						"What do you want?" he asked huskily.
						"I want to know about that necklace, and its theft, and about Bradley."
						"I'll not tell you!"
						"Oh, yes, you will! You're going to give me the inside of your share of this
							business. We're going to have the whole thing out, right here and now!" Clifford
							advanced upon him, seeking to dominate the shattered man by superior will. "Sit
							down."
						Tarleton retreated a step.
						"Sit down!" Clifford sternly ordered.
						Tarleton slumped into the chair at which Clifford pointed, and Clifford sat down
							facing him.
						"I'm going to try reason on you first, Tarleton, and if that fails I'll use something
							you won't like so well. You've played on Thorne and me the rottenest trick that a man
							can play on a friend--but at the start-off I'm going to say that I know you did it to
							save yourself from some awful jam you've got into. And I know that your helping frame
							Thorne and me hasn't got you out of it--that it has only temporarily staved off
							danger. In reality, you're just where you were before you  crossed your two best friends. That's the truth, Tarleton, and you know it!"
						The man in the chair did not respond.
						"Now you listen, and listen hard, to two points. First, Bradley looks to be on top.
							He is--but he won't be there long, for this time I'm to get him! You just watch! And
							when he goes down, how'll he help you? Second point, you know I've never broken a
							promise in my life and that you can trust me to the very limit of what I say I'll
							do."
						"What's this got to do with the affair?" whispered Tarleton.
						"Everything--as far as you are concerned! Now I have a proposition to make to you.
							You come across with your part in the story, and I'll promise not to use it in any way
							against you. Further, I'm pretty sure I can get you clear of this tangle you're in
							with Bradley and Clarice Langhorne. You stand to lose nothing, and to gain
							everything."
						Clifford could see that the shattered man before him was wavering, and he read the
							consideration that was at the fore of Tarleton's mind.
						"You're thinking of Miss Langhorne? You don't want anything to happen to her?"
						Tarleton nodded.
						"See here, Tarleton, I'm your friend," Clifford said firmly. "But I'm not going to
							let you ruin  my life--and I'm not going to let you ruin
							your life if I can help it. You and I are going to have a few unvarnished words
							concerning Miss Langhorne. I didn't talk to you plainly before, for I knew it would do
							no good; you were so infatuated, you would have called me a liar, and kept right
							ahead. But we're going to get down to cases now. How much do you know about Clarice
							Langhorne?"
						"She's a musical comedy star."
						"Sometimes she is. But do you know her other business?"
						"Her other business! "
						"Let's approach it from the angle of your personal experience. Shortly after you two
							became such good friends, she began to refer indirectly to the fact that, owing to the
							failure of the company she had been with, she did not have a decent thing to
							wear."
						Tarleton's eyes opened. "Yes," he admitted:
						"And you gallantly insisted on supplying the need. And finally she consented. And the
							only things which suited her at all were found in three Fifth Avenue shops which I can
							name to you. You tried to buy on credit; the three shops were most politely sorry, but
							they sold only for cash. And you raised the money."
						"How did you guess that? " ejaculated Tarleton.
						"I didn't guess it. You probably spent ten or  twenty
							thousand in outfitting her. And how much did you ever see of the clothes that you
							bought?"
						Tarleton gave a start, but did not reply.
						Clifford answered for him. "Some of the gowns you saw on her only once, and some you
							never saw her wear at all."
						"What are you getting at?"
						"I'm getting at Clarice Langhorne's other business. don'tyou begin to see? It's a new
							business--only a few women are in it yet, and she's the cleverest of the lot. New York
							summer widowers, like yourself, and rich men from the West are her specialty. I guess
							you know well enough how she secures their admiration, and then makes known the
							condition of her wardrobe. The simple inside facts are that Miss Langhorne has a
							private arrangement with these three shops; that the gowns you bought were privately
							returned; that your money was divided fifty-fifty between the shops and her. Anything
							else you gave her, such as money and necklaces, was all her own--pure velvet. Oh, it's
							a clever game! "
						"Good God! I don't believe it!"
						"Oh, yes you do," Clifford drove at him grimly, "for it all fits in with your
							experience. If necessary, I could take you around to the three shops and show you the
							identical gowns you bought. Besides this game, she has another, not so new, that  it is nicer not to talk about--and, further, she works
							under the protection of Bradley Oh, you need not worry about shielding Miss Langhorne;
							she's attended to that herself Besides, I'm not after her; I'm after Bradley."
						Clifford gripped Tarleton's knee, and drove rapidly on.
						"Stanley, you know I'm your friend--the best friend you've got. And I know you
							wouldn't have done what you did to me, if you hadn't been desperate--and I can see
							that you're eaten up with shame and remorse. For your own sake, for my sake, come
							across with the facts! And in the end, it may be for your wife's sake too. Think of
							your wife!"
						"It was thinking of my wife that made me do it!" groaned Tarleton.
						And then, suddenly, the man had broken down; and, prefaced with self-recrimination,
							the story came out: a sordid tale, that to another might have sounded like
							melodrama--but that Clifford, knowing the great city from the inside, knew to be just
							ordinary realism of one phase of New York life. Tarleton, in company with Clarice
							Langhorne, had been in the confidential relaxed mood begotten by the second bottle of
							champagne; on his person he had a ruby necklace, his wedding present to his wife,
							which he had intended leaving at Tiffany's  that day to
							be repaired, but had forgotten all about; this necklace he had exhibited to Clarice,
							she had taken it in her hands to examine it more closely, she had neglected to return
							it, and it had slipped his mind. The next day he had remembered, and had called upon
							her and asked for the necklace. She had appeared surprised at his request, and had
							said he had presented the necklace to her. He had replied that he had not intended
							doing so, but if she would give him the necklace, later, when he could get the money,
							he would present her with one of equal value. He had told her of the peculiar
							significance of the necklace to himself and of the domestic disaster that would
							overtake him when his wife learned the jewels were gone and who possessed them.
							Whereupon Clarice had confessed that the necklace had been stolen--and she had
							privately reported the theft to Bradley. He had been appalled.
						"A few days later," continued the broken Tarleton, "Bradley sent for me. This was
							just before I offered to help you get evidence against him. He said he had located the
							stolen necklace, could make arrests and restitution. This, however, he said he knew
							would make public how and to whom I had given my wedding gift to my wife, would create
							a great scandal, would ruin me--would doubtless cause my wife to divorce me. To do
							this was his  duty, he said, and he would have to
							perform it--unless I would do exactly as he ordered. If I obeyed, he would later on
							manage to have the necklace restored to me so that no one would be the wiser. I was
							frantic--I seemed to have no choice--so I agreed to go through with the part he had
							assigned me in his scheme. You know the rest. But, God--you don't know the despair I'm
							in, how I hate myself!"
						Clifford gazed at the shattered man. He caught his breath, amazed by the powerful but
							indirect leverage by which Bradley had toppled Thorne and him to destruction. He had
							known how, Bradley could twist crooks to obedience--but here was the best example he
							had yet seen of how that cunning genius used his police powers to force a man of
							position, seemingly beyond his reach, to do his exact bidding.
						"Tell me, Stanley," Clifford said, "did Bradley make a formal record of the
							theft?"
						"No. He said he'd keep it quiet, so that later on he could restore the necklace
							without making a scandal."
						"Did you get any hint from Bradley as to who now has the necklace?"
						"No."
						Clifford thought for a moment.
						"Stanley, you've played a rotten part, and  you're in a
							rotten fix. But don't worry too much; you don't see it, but, from the very beginning,
							you've been the victim of an amazingly clever scheme--its purpose, from the outset, to
							get Thorne and me. You do exactly what I tell you, and there's a chance that I may get
							you clear of this mess."
						"Bob--you're too damned white to me!" choked Tarleton. "What shall I do?"
						"Disappear at once and keep under cover so that Bradley or Miss Langhorne can't
							connect with you. But keep me informed where I can find you any. hour."
						Tarleton burst into cries of gratitude, but Clifford interrupted with:
						"Save your thanks till you're through with this--I've no time for them now. I've got
							to get out and hustle."
						With that he hurried from the heliotrope-scented parlor; and five minutes later he
							entered the Knickerbocker bar. There, as he had half hoped, stood that
							smartly-tailored young gentleman Slant-Face Regan, ex-pickpocket, and the cleverest
							performer in his line that Clifford had ever known--sipping his usual glass stein of
							buttermilk. Clifford drew the ex-pickpocket over into one of the stalls upholstered in
							leather.
						"Slant-Face, will you do something for me?"

						

						"You've gone the limit for me, Clifford, and I'll go the limit for you. what's
							doing?"
						Rapidly Clifford sketched the story Tarleton had just told him.
						Slant-Face's mouth tilted deep at its left corner in its wry sardonic smile. "Your
							friend Tarleton has certainly been played to a fare-ye-well for a sucker by the
							Langhorne dame. Where do you want me to fit in?"
						"I want you to locate the necklace."
						Slant-Face gazed at him steadily. "With a search warrant, I suppose?"
						Clifford returned the steady gaze. "I believe you get me?"
						"Just locate it--that's all?" queried, Slant-Face.
						"I believe you get me," repeated Clifford.
						"I believe I do," returned Slant-Face--and with the slow critical manner of a
							connoisseur of rare wines the ex-pickpocket sipped his glass stein of buttermilk.

					

					

						III

						With Tarleton's revelation, Clifford now believed he understood all the details, and
							the compelling motives, of the great plot that had sent him down to his ruin. There
							was work ahead--big work-- but no longer did he have to work in darkness. And  then, too, he reasoned that Bradley's complete triumph
							might induce over-confidence; and that through over-confidence the Acting Commissioner
							might grow less cautious or make some slip.
						Of the two men involved in the great conspiracy, Clifford had decided that to watch
							Morgan offered him the easier and more promising chance. All that night he shadowed
							the reputed head of the syndicate of gamblers and confidence men, seeking for a clue
							to the further necessary meeting between Morgan and Bradley--and wondering all the
							while what might be his next word from Mary Regan. He tailed Morgan till that magnate
							of the night sought his apartment at 4 A.M, and learned not a thing.
						Clifford did not get to his own quarters until the next morning. Just inside the
							door, where it had been slipped during the night, lay an envelope. He had seen the
							writing only twice before, but instantly he knew it. What news, or what plan, did Mary
							Regan have to communicate? Eagerly he tore open the envelope and read:

						After all I find that I cannot help you. Please do not try to see me.

						
							MARY REGAN.
						

						He stared at the sheet of paper, then sank into a chair. What had brought about this
							latest  change in this puzzling young woman, just after
							she apparently had come definitely to his side? Had she swung back to her old
							ideas?
						Disobeying the injunction of her last sentence, Clifford tried to get the old house
							near Washington Square upon the telephone, but after long ringing Central told him
							that the number did not answer. During the morning, while shadowing Morgan's apartment
							house, waiting for the great gambler to appear, he tried repeatedly to get her on the
							telephone, always with the same result. And then, in a noon edition of an evening
							paper he read that she had been arrested, charged with the theft of two rings
							belonging to Clarice Langhorne; that the rings had been found in her bedroom; that she
							had been released on bail.
						Instinctively, he knew that here again the long arm of Bradley had reached swiftly
							and suddenly out. Once more he tried to telephone her at the house near Washington
							Square, and again Central said the number did not answer. What could have
							happened?--what was behind all this?
						But whatever else might happen, he had to stick to his case, for he realized that his
							long struggle had entered upon its grimmest phase, that this was probably his last
							chance. Toward one o'clock Morgan made his appearance; and Clifford continued his
							shadowing. Morgan's demeanor, though cool  and composed,
							as should be that of a master gambler, betrayed a nervous expectancy that to Clifford
							was corroborative of all Mary had told him, and that kept him keyed to sharpest
							watchfulness. Something might begin to happen almost any moment.
						Toward four o'clock, while Morgan was sipping a ginger ale high-ball in the caf of
							the Knickerbocker, Clifford saw a waiter speak to him, saw Morgan go out and enter a
							telephone booth. A minute later he saw him emerge, glance at his watch, and go forth
							with what was haste for Morgan to the carriage starter. Clifford could not hear what
							he said; and he wondered why Morgan stood waiting for several minutes, with an
							impatience he sought to conceal. Then a powerful limousine--the same car that Clifford
							had followed to Coney Island half a dozen nights before--appeared at the curb, Morgan
							quickly entered it, and the car made toward Fifth Avenue.
						All alert, Clifford was stepping toward the starter to order a car in which to
							follow, when a hand fell upon his arm. Turning quickly, he saw Slant-Face Regan.
						"Sorry, Slant-Face--no time to talk now"--and he tried to go on.
						But Slant-Face's grip held him. "Only'll keep you for five seconds. Been looking for
							you for two  hours. Got the Langhorne dame covered--and
							think there'll be something doing."
						"Good. But--"
						"And my sister asked me to get word to you to meet her--"
						Clifford stopped tugging. "What's that?"
						"Very important, she said. Be there at four"--slipping a bit of cardboard into
							Clifford's hand--"and wait for her. Just show the card."
						Slant-Face sauntered away. Surreptitiously Clifford looked at the card. Upon it, in
							engraved lettering, was "MME. HLNE. ROBES AND GOWNS. --Fifth Avenue." And in
							handwriting were the initials "M. R."
						Clifford glanced quickly eastward. The gray car containing Morgan was just swinging
							northward into Fifth Avenue upon its suspicious errand. He glanced at his watch--five
							minutes to four; then he stepped quickly out upon the sidewalk and ordered a taxi.
						"Where to, sir?" asked the starter.
						"Hlne's," said Clifford, and added the number. He had had to choose, and the great
							chance that lay in following Morgan had to be lost.

					

					

						IV

						At five minutes past four he was in Hlne's, that treasure house of French
							gowns--and Madame  Hlne herself, erect, coiffured
							perfectly to the uttermost hair, with a youthful complexion which she dared not
							imperil by smiling (it was gossipped among the very knowing ones that Madame Hlne
							had begun life as an Illinois school teacher) was looking at the card Clifford had
							tendered her. She appeared to understand, for she asked no questions; the truly
							fashionable modistes of New York are accustomed to having their establishments used as
							rendezvous for extremely private and delicate little tte--ttes--and they are
							mistresses of the art of discretion.
						"This way, please," was all she said; and showed him back to a door, which she
							opened, then closed behind him.
						Clifford found himself in a small room, the chairs and woodwork all that soft gray
							which was then the mode, the walls paneled with great mirrors. He judged himself to be
							in that sanctum sanctorum of a modiste's establishment, a fitting-parlor.
						He waited for half an hour, consumed with impatience and wonderment. Then Madame
							Hlne appeared, a gown upon her arm. Behind her was Mary Regan. Hlne laid the gown
							carefully across the back of a gray chair, then withdrew.
						Mary spoke the instant they were alone. Her voice was low pitched, tense with
							controlled excitement.

						

						"This is the only safe way I could think of meeting you."
						"Safe?" he exclaimed, in bewildered surprise.
						"So no one would know we had met," she explained rapidly. "I'm being
							watched--followed wherever I go. A man is in front now, waiting for me to come out.
							But I have come to buy this gown, and when I leave, this gown in a box will be put
							into my car. And the man will follow me again. You must wait for some time until after
							I have gone before you leave. that'll make it safe--I hope."
						"I see the plan. But who is following you?"
						"Mr. Bradley's men."
						"But why?"
						"They're not sure of me. I'll explain just why after I have told you something
							else."
						"Does your being here," Clifford interrupted eagerly, "mean that you're going to help
							me after all?"
						"On just one condition."
						"And that?"
						"Whatever you may do, you must promise to protect Uncle Joe--not to get him
							entangled."
						Clifford stared.
						"Entangle Joe Russell! How can I?"
						"I mustn't say another word until you have promised."

						

						"I don't know what you're driving at--but I promise."
						"Thank you!" Her relief was great; but she did not pause--went right on in the same
							tense rapid voice. "Now I can help you in every way--and tell you everything."
						"First tell me about your arrest--and why you sent me that note."
						"I sent the note because Uncle Joe ordered me not to help you."
						"Ordered you! Why?"
						"When you left us last night Uncle Joe was very angry at me for having told you what
							I had, and for having offered to help you. I said I had a right to help you if I
							wanted to. He said I had not. I demanded to know why. We had hot words, Uncle and I.
							And then he told me a thing I had not had the, slightest suspicion of before. The real
							head of the syndicate that is working with Mr. Bradley is Uncle Joe."
						"What! Joe Russell!" cried Clifford, dumfounded. "But Philip Morgan?"
						"He has only been a blind all the while. They wanted you and Thorne to suspect him
							and follow the wrong scent, so you'd overlook the real person."
						"So Morgan, too, was just a plant!" Clifford gazed at her silently, while he
							comprehended this  new phase of Bradley's vast scheme.
							"Well, it was clever--mighty clever!" And grimly: "Though I wouldn't have thought Joe
							Russell would have gone into partnership with Bradley--and have planned from the
							beginning to frame me. I've tried to treat Joe white."
						"That's what I said to him last night"--a swift flush colored her face--"though don't
							forget that I tried to do the same thing to you."
						Clifford ignored her last remark. "What answer did your uncle give you? "
						"He said he liked you better than he did Bradley, but that this was business and that
							love didn't count in business. He said that he could do big business with Bradley, and
							that he couldn't do anything at all with you or Mr. Thorne. Therefore, what he'd done
							had been the only way for him."
						Clifford recognized this as the authentic Russell philosophy.
						"And then he demanded if I was going to side against him--do things that would lead
							to his arrest. He's been the same as a father to me for the last ten years; it seemed
							I couldn't work against him, so finally I sent that note. Later I got to thinking, and
							I decided I could help you if I would n't have to betray my uncle--if you would
							promise that you'd keep him clear in whatever  action
							you took. But before I could get you word again, I was arrested."
						"Of course Bradley was behind your arrest."
						"Of course."
						"I can see, now, why Bradley ordered you to be friends with Clarice Langhorne. It was
							to give him the chance to do just this."
						"Yes. He had me watched, and he learned that I had seen you. My prompt arrest was Mr.
							Bradley's way of warning me. I've been given to understand that if I keep in line, it
							will develop that my arrest was a blunder based on a mistake for which Clarice
							Langhorne will apologize."
						"And if you don't keep in line?"
						"But he's sure I will--and so is Uncle Joe."
						"But if you don't--and Bradley comes out on top--he's got you where he'll show you up
							to the public as a far worse person than we privately know Clarice Langhorne to be.
							Bradley never forgets."
						"I know. that's my risk." She shrugged her shoulders. "But the most important thing I
							haven't yet told you."
						"Yes?"
						"A meeting between Mr. Bradley and Uncle Joe--remember, you promised to handle this
							so Uncle Joe would ,go free--will take place to-night."
						"To-night! Where?"

						

						"At that Sultan's Garden out at Coney Island. You remember--where I took you the
							other evening."
						"I remember. Tell me," he asked sharply, "is this meeting the
							meeting?"
						"Yes."
						"And will it be in public?"
						"Yes. Their belief is exactly what you heard Bradley say out at Pine Crest
							Manor--that they might possibly be seen if they tried to meet in secret and be
							suspected--but that if they met openly in a great public place, seemingly by chance,
							no one would suspect anything. That was their safest plan."
						"And it's their cleverest plan, too. Though Bradley has become so addicted to the
							exercise of his deep cunning that he practises cunning for the sheer pleasure that
							adroit scheming gives him--he's sometimes cunning when he doesn't have to be. . ..
							This is our big chance! we've got to break through to-night--somehow!" Clifford
							thought rapidly. "Could we do it through Joe Russell?"
						"How?"
						"I could go to him privately--put the case up to him strongly to join in with us--to
							go through the affair exactly as planned, and at the right moment we'll grab Bradley.
							If Russell helps that will let him out."

						

						Mary shook her head. "If you put it up to him, he'll deny everything and will warn
							Bradley."
						"And our great chance would be gone. No, that way won't do." Again Clifford thought
							rapidly. "Listen. Suppose we let them go right ahead as they intend--and then we'll
							force upon your uncle a big crisis, unexpectedly, where he'll be compelled to act
							either against you or for you?--and where, if he's with you, he'll see he has a chance
							to clear himself?"
						"Just what do you mean?"
						"I don't know yet--definitely," Clifford cried excitedly. "I just feel that the plan
							is there. I'll have to think it out while I'm doing other things, for there are half a
							dozen matters that must be seen to before we can act. . . I wish you'd go out to the
							Sultan's Garden with me--but I suppose that would be too risky."
						"Uncle Joe is taking me with him; you know, to make the affair look just like an
							ordinary pleasure trip."
						"Better still!"
						"But I can't seem to have any part in whatever you do."
						"You've already had the biggest kind of a part!" cried Clifford.
						She took the hand he offered--flushed--then said, "I must be leaving; remember, you
							are to  wait here half an hour to make sure that the
							people following me do not suspect that we have had a meeting."
						The next moment she had gone, Madame Hlne and the gown with her.
						For half an hour Clifford sat staring at himself in the mirrored walls of the
							fitting-parlor, planning feverishly. Then he left--had a conference with Thorne, who
							in turn arranged to see the District Attorney immediately--got messages to Tarleton
							and Slant-Face Regan--and at eight o'clock, all done that could be done in advance, he
							was hanging to a strap in an elevated train that was carrying its share of 400,000
							wilted seekers of pleasure down to Coney Island.

					

					

						V

						It was ten, and for an hour Clifford had been sitting in the Sultan's Garden, that
							flimsy pleasure hall of ornate stucco and blue and gilt paint. There were rows and
							rows and still more rows of tables--and tubbed palms imported from the tropical wilds
							of Long Island, arranged in files and clumps and squares that gave a degree of
							detachment to such guests as desired privacy--and a fountain in the midst, in which
							plaster nymphs disported and tossed on high great fans of spray for colored lights to
							play upon--and an orchestra  of negroes in Turkish garb,
							whose oriental music was the rag-time beloved by Coney Island. "The Meeting Place of
							the World" the proprietors of the Sultan's Garden flamboyantly called it; and
							certainly the world was here to-night--at least a sweltering thousand of it.
						Clifford, apart, merely one of the thousand, kept close watch upon the separate
							strategic elements involved in the plan he had worked out for the evening. At a table
							beside the green-margined pool of the fountain sat Mary and Joe Russell, Russell with
							the manner of idling away a few mildly pleasant hours. Here and there were newspaper
							men, smoking and sipping beer--for Clffford, knowing as well as Bradley the value of
							publicity, had arranged with discreet reporter friends to be present. And close at
							hand, unremarkable in this great assembly of all sorts and kinds, sat four detectives
							from the District Attorney's office; these four detectives, Thorne had sent word, were
							instructed to obey Clifford's orders.
						While he waited for Bradley to appear--was Bradley really coming?--Clifford lived at
							the rate of a year a minute. The supreme moment wad close at hand. But was Mary
							correctly informed as to to-night's meeting? Would his plan, base as it was so largely
							upon conjectures and upon proper inter-action of so many uncertain elements,  work out when put to the test? Would Russell react as he
							had counted during the crisis he intended to force upon him?
						And how would the money be passed?--if money was to be passed?
						Subconsciously, Clifford counted over and over what was at stake upon this night's
							play. There was the success or failure of all of Thorne's careful plans for a better
							Police Department--his own promise to clear Tarleton--his extrication from the
							disgrace in which he now stood--his dreams for a career. Yes--and this he realized
							weighed with him most of all--his relationship to Mary Regan. And if there had been
							one slightest error in his calculation, if he should make one slip in what he was
							about to do, Bradley would be more secure in his triumph, and he would fall deeper in
							disgrace than ever ....
						Of a sudden his heart gave a leap: Bradley had entered. And in Bradley's mouth, as
							always, was a big cigar., But instead of making toward the fountain, the Acting
							Commissioner lowered his powerful figure at a table where sat two political friends,
							and did not even glance in Russell's direction. Clifford's doubts swept back upon him
							and possessed him for an hour while Bradley chatted with the politicians. After all,
							had Mary been wrong? He caught glances of smiling disbelief  directed at him from the reporters and from those professional cynics, the
							detectives from the District Attorney's office.
						Several times his eyes shifted cautiously to Mary. He guessed from the strain in her
							face, perceptible to him, that suspense and doubt were also tearing at her. But not
							once did she give him a glance that might have betrayed their alliance.
						At eleven Bradley rose, said good-by to his friends and started to leave. His course
							took him past the fountain, and seemingly for the first time he saw Joe Russell.
							Russell spoke to him, and Bradley, after a word, sat down at the table.
						Thus far, everything seemed to be working exactly as Mary had foretold.
						Clifford, beneath his suspense, had to admire the deep cunning of Bradley's boldness.
							There he sat, in plain view of a thousand persons! And hardly a one suspected him.
							Russell, as far as this public knew him, was supposed to be "all through" as a
							practitioner of his profession and to have settled down to years of peace--for which
							impression Clifford was in a measure responsible, through his defeat of several of
							Russell's recent enterprises. And it was a part of the policy of Bradley--that is, the
							Bradley who had been carefully built up for the public to look at and believe in--to
							command. great professional criminals to come to his office  at Headquarters, or to stop them wherever chance might bring about a
							meeting, and tell them bluntly that it would not be safe for them to try to do
							business in New York. This direct method, New York believed, was largely responsible
							for Bradley's success.
						No, hardly a one here suspected!
						Clifford was not near enough to overhear the talk; but he could see that it was
							informal--of that chatty character which in real life takes place between police
							officials and retired criminals of the higher order; and he could see that most of the
							talking was being done by Russell. While Russell spoke Bradley puffed away at his
							half-smoked cigar. No matter how great the excitement, Bradley rarely took his cigar
							from his mouth, but rolled it about between his lips and smoked it right through to a
							stub.
						Clifford, watching the pair, again wondered by what device the money would be passed
							with this great public looking on. He had admired the cleverness of the plan Bradley
							had proposed to Phil Morgan that dark night in the shack at Pine Crest Manor--to hand
							Bradley a seeming cigar, which in reality should be one of those hollow toy affairs,
							the money within it. But that device had, he knew, been invented solely for his ears,
							and he reasoned that it would not now be used.

						

						And then, just as he had reached this conclusion, Clifford had the first of the many
							surprises that were to come to him that night. Bradley dropped his stub into the
							ash-tray, opened his leather cigar case as if for a fresh cigar, and found it empty.
							Russell, seeing the need, held out a gold-banded long thick black cigar. Bradley
							accepted it, fingered it a moment as if in doubt, shook his head, put it into his
							cigar case, and with seeming carelessness left the case lying upon the table.
						After all, the cigai was the plan! Clifford could hardly hold himself back from
							instant action; but he knew, to have a perfect case, he should wait until Bradley put
							the cigar in his pocket. A better plan than that of the cigar could not have been
							devised! For Bradley, had he reasoned at all, would have reasoned that Clifford, even
							if Clifford should be following and should witness the scene, would never by any
							chance imagine that Bradley would use the very device which he knew Clifford knew he
							had worked out solely to lead Clifford astray.
						Yes, the money was in the cigar!
						And just then Clifford had his second great surprise. Bradley, apparently
							reconsidering, took the cigar from his case, put it in his mouth, deliberately lighted
							it, and began slowly to puff away.

						

						What, then, in God's name, was the plan?
						Bewildered, Clifford watched the trio at the table, looking for any slightest move
							which would give him a clue. He noted that the strain in Mary Regan's face had
							increased, and he knew it partly was from the inactivity which she had said would have
							to be her rle that night. And his eyes, swiftly roving for an instant, noted that
							Slant-Face and Tarleton were now among the crowd.
						Presently Bradley, with a careless move of an elbow, knocked his empty cigar case
							from the table--on the. side between the table and the border of shrubs which
							encircled the fountain's pool. Russell recovered the case, and after holding it a
							barely perceptible instant beneath the cloth, returned it to Bradley. Bradley slipped
							the case into his pocket and rose to go.
						There was no doubt now how the money had been passed and where it now was. That
							instant beneath the table was time aplenty for Joe Russell's magician's hands to slip
							the money into the cigar case. Clifford sprang forward, and blocked Bradley's way
							before he had yet taken a step from the table.
						"Hold on, Bradley!" he said sharply, exultantly--and the newspaper men, knowing that
							the story had "broken," pressed forward from their tables, and the four detectives
							were instantly at his back.

						

						Bradley's square face looked over Clifford with contemptuous surprise. "Oh, you,
							Clifford," he remarked--and his big black cigar never left its place in one corner of
							his prehensile mouth. "And what might the boy detective be wanting?"
						"I want you, Bradley. Carey"--to the leader of the District Attorney's men--"just put
							the cuffs on Bradley!"
						"What's that?" half roared Bradley, falling back a pace, his heavy shoulders
							squaring. The turbaned orchestra had broken off its syncopated music, and all the
							Sultan's Garden was gaping at this suddenly interpolated number in the evening's
							entertainment.
						"Sorry, Chief," apologized Carey, "but it's the D. A.'s orders."
						"Don't try to put those things on me, or you'll, be hunting new jobs!" growled
							Bradley. "Are you being bossed by this boob, Clifford? "
						"They are," Clifford answered for them.
						"Well, what's the bum steer you're working on this time?"
						"This time, Bradley, I've got you with the goods on. Hand over your
							cigar case."
						"Not to you--damn you!"
						"Get him, boys!" Clifford sprang upon Bradley, and the four detectives closed in the
							same moment. There was a brief struggle, then the 
							Acting Commissioner of Police stood before a thousand pairs of eyes, handcuffs on. His
							face was black with rage, but his big cigar was still clenched in his teeth.
						"I'll get you for this, Clifford!" he snarled.
						"Search him, Carey," Clifford ordered. "it's his cigar case we want."
						"Can't help it, Chief," apologized Carey, and from Bradley's inside coat pocket he
							drew forth the black leather case that Clifford had seen so adroitly manipulated by
							Bradley and Joe Russell.
						The ultimate moment had come.
						"Open it," commanded Clifford.
						Carey drew the two halves apart, then held them out to Clifford for examination. But
							Clifford had already seen, and his exultation had changed to dazed sickness. The cigar
							case was empty.
						"What's the matter, Clifford?" queried Bradley. "Stomach?"
						Clifford did not answer.
						"Perhaps the lobster you ate was too ripe," Bradley solicitously taunted.
						There was a Pare chance that some switch had been made that his eyes had not caught.
							"Go through him, boys," Clifford said desperately.
						"Sure, go as far as you like," Bradley invited.
						The detectives went through his clothes. They found nothing that was not obviously
							Bradley's P own. Clifford had a glimpse of Mary's face;
							it was very pale, and taut with poignant dismay; and Clifford, sickened as he was, had
							a flash of what was passing in her mind. She had made an error--she was responsible
							for drawing Clifford into the supreme humiliation of his career--and he had every
							seeming cause to think that, despite her promise, she had not been on the square.
						"And now," Bradley's voice broke in upon the quiet, "I suppose you coppers would like
							to take off this jewelry."
						Clifford nodded.
						"Sorry, Chief--not my fault--orders, you know," Carey tried to square himself as he
							removed the handcuffs.
						Bradley, rubbing his big wrists, glowered at Clifford with triumphant contempt.
						"You poor boob, you!" came crunchingly from between his slightly parted lips.
							"There's a lot I could do to you, but I guess you've finished off yourself, and
							finished yourself off for good. Just read what these newspaper boys have to say about
							you to-morrow morning--and I guess you'll have plenty to think of during that long
							vacation you're going to take in Sing Sing. Now get out of my way, you damned
							half-brained boob!"
						Clifford was stepping back, with a sense of plunging dizzily down a black abysm that
							had no  bottom--when Mary Regan came excitedly to her
							feet.
						"Look!" she cried.
						Bradley wheeled about, but too late to catch her gesture; and he turned his menacing
							face back upon Clifford. But Clifford had seen. Mary's shaking hand had pointed for an
							instant at Bradley's mouth--the mouth in which still was clenched the big cigar with
							the gold band Russell lad given him and which he had so composedly lighted. What
							Clifford noted sent a wild new life leaping through him. For Bradley, against his
							invariable habit of smoking a cigar straight through from tip to stub, had smoked no
							more than half an inch of this--the ash had fallen away--and the cigar was dead!
						"Get out of my way!" repeated Bradley, and made to start forward, cigar tight in his
							grim lips.
						The cigar was dead! Clifford took a quick step and his right hand shot out toward
							Bradley's face. Taken unaware, Bradley threw up his guard too late. But he received no
							terrific blow as he had expected; he was not even touched. Merely the big black cigar
							had been snatched from his mouth.
						The next instant pandemonium was in the Sultan's Garden. With a wild low animal-like
							growl Bradley had sprung upon Clifford. His right hand closed upon Clifford's throat
							and his left gripped the wrist of the hand that clutched the cigar--and  the pair went sprawling to the floor between the tables,
							dishes crashing down about them, Clifford the under man. Overpowered though he was for
							an instant, with the strongest hand in the Department throttling him, Clifford was
							exultant: that swift terrific assault told him that he had guessed right!
						For one moment the primitive man in Clifford desired nothing more than to fight it
							out with Bradley, brute against brute. He wrenched his right hand free and drove a
							terrific short jab flush against Bradley's chin. The grip upon his throat closed more
							viciously; he felt Bradley's left hand fumbling with devilish intent for the balls of
							his eyes. He drove his fist again into Bradley's chin.
						And then that part of it was suddenly over--it had lasted no more than a surprised
							second or two--and the two men, enclosed in the arms of the four detectives, were on
							their feet, panting, disheveled--and about them were pressed the reporters and
							Tarleton and Slant-Face Regan and Thorne and excited chattering guests.
						"I'll stand without hitching, boys," Clifford gasped to the two detectives who had
							seized him. "Here, Carey, keep this piece of evidence for the District Attorney. But
							first, open it and show what you find."

						

						

							Bradley received no terrifc blow as he had expected. Merely the big
								black cigar had been snatched from his mouth.

						

						

						

						Clifford held out, badly crumpled by his palm, the big gold-banded cigar. With the
							crowd gaping at him, Carey removed the tattered wrapper. There, in the heart of the
							cigar, its filler, was a tight little roll of bills.
						"Count it," Clifford ordered.
						Carey fingered through the tobacco-tinted bills. "Fifteen thousand," he
							announced.
						"Well, Bradley," Clifford said grimly, "I guess this will be the end of your
							rope."
						Bradley did not reply. He glared at Clifford with murderous malignancy.
						"Shall we pinch Russell, too?" asked Carey.
						"You bet you do!" Bradley snapped out.
						Clifford caught a sharp expression in the face of old Joe Russell; and caught the
							look of appeal which Mary threw him, and he remembered his promise to her; and what he
							next said was framed largely for a quick effect upon Russell.
						"No, Carey doesn't pinch Russell, Bradley. Russell and Miss Regan, and her brother
							here, have been on the inside of this--that's where I got the tip on what was doing
							to-night. We've all been working together. And Russell gets that money back after it
							has served as evidence against you--and he returns it to the people he got it from,
							and they'll know he hasn't crossed them, for they'll know your big game, Bradley,
							couldn't be put over,  and that Russell played it safe
							at the finish to protect them."
						Bradley turned his black glower upon Russell.
						"Is this so?"
						For a moment Russell toyed imperturbably with his cigar. But Clifford knew the master
							swindler was thinking with lightning swiftness. Would Russell see the chance he-had
							adroitly offered him? Or would he make denial, and take his chance with Bradley?
						Russell carefully knocked the ash from his cigar.
						"What Clifford says is straight, Bradley; I've been stringing with him all the
							while."
						"Damn you, Russell! " Bradley snarled, leaning forward, his great muscles knotted
							with vengeful desire. Then he straightened up, and eyed the circle which enclosed him
							defiantly. "Well, anyhow, Clifford, you and Thorne will get your bit as grafters just
							the same!"
						"We'll see at the trial. Miss Regan and Tarleton have confessed to their parts."
						"what's that?" Bradley snapped at Mary.
						"It was a conspiracy, planned by you," she answered clearly. "You told me exactly
							what to do and forced me to do it."
						"And you?" Bradley demanded of Tarleton. Tarleton was white, but he did not
							flinch.
						"It was the same way with me."

						

						"You! I'll get you!" snarled Bradley. "That story about you breaks to-morrow and you
							at least will be finished!"
						Slant-Face, who had slipped to Clifford's side, let the faintest whisper come through
							the drooping left corner of his mouth.
						"In your coat-pocket--this side."
						Clifford's right hand obeyed the suggestion and closed on a cluster of small hard
							objects; when they had got there he had no idea. His mind was now working so rapidly
							that conclusions were reached without the intermediation of conscious thought
							processes.
						"Evidently you refer to a necklace Mr. Tarleton was interested in. Mr. Tarleton has
							discovered that he made a mistake. It was not stolen. It was merely lost. He has found
							it and given it to me for safe keeping. Here it is," and he drew out the missing
							necklace.
						As Bradley glanced at it, the rage that had flashed out now and again the last few
							minutes, surged toward a climax of primordial savagery. For the briefest moment his
							little eyes flashed and his great chest heaved as with the intent to rend his way
							through this multitude. But the next moment the grim self mastery that had
							characterized his long career from his patrolman days to the dizzy heights of a few
							minutes ago, again possessed  him. He drew up his coat
							sleeves and composedly thrust out his bared wrists. Handcuffs snapped upon them.
						"Any of you boys got an extra smoke?" he queried.
						One was produced.
						"Stick it in my face and light it." This was done; he took two slow puffs, then
							turned on Clifford. "I'll bet you ten to one, Clifford, any amount you like, that I
							beat the case!" And without waiting for an answer: "Come on, boys--I'm sleepy, and
							let's be getting over to that bridal suite you've got reserved for me in the
							Tombs."
						And with a detective before him, one behind him, and one at either arm, the great man
							that might: have been strode through the crowd--puffing his cigar, shoulders erect,
							his square face coolly meeting every gaze . . .

					

					

						VI

						Five minutes later, just behind the machine which contained Bradley and the.
							detectives, Thorne's touring car was droning along Ocean Parkway through the warm
							night, its objective point the office of the District Attorney. Thorne was at the
							wheel, beside him Mary Regan; and in the roomy tonneau were Clifford, Tarleton, Joe
							Russell, Slant-Face, and Slant-Face's wife--she that 
							months ago had been the light-minded Jennie Malone whom Slant-Face, in his adroitly
							kindled jealous rage, had once thought that he had killed.
						Slant-Face leaned toward Clifford.
						"The necklace was never stolen from the Langhorne dame," he whispered.
						"I was sure it hadn't been," replied Clifford, his mind on other matters.
						"She was trying to work the same old game," Slant-Face continued. "I framed it so
							that she got wind her flat might be searched, and she carried the necklace with her to
							keep it safe. The rest was easy. I'll get another hint to her, and she'll drop quick
							to the idea that this town isn't the proper health resort for her. Your friend here
							needn't worry about her again."
						"Thank you!" Tarleton breathed huskily.
						"Thank Clifford." After which Slant-Face sank back beside his wife and lapsed into
							the silence that was his habit.
						"Bob," remarked Joe Russell in his drawling voice, "I suppose I ought to be much
							obliged to you for pulling me through this jam--but you've certainly put me in bad
							with the boys in my own line. Turning against a head copper, that'll queer me all
							around. Nobody has any use for a squealer. Nobody'll trust me or work with me. I'm
							done for. I'll never be able to turn another trick."

						

						"Why should you turn another trick? Why shouldn't you cut out all the old stuff and
							go straight, Joe?"
						"Me!"
						"Yes. It's about time for you to retire anyhow. you're at least sixty."
						"If my soul were to divorce my mortal parts this minute," drawled Joe, "the figure
							the mason would write on my tombstone would be sixty-five. But what'll I do, Bob? I
							can't loaf."
						"Didn't I hear that you had ambitions about chicken farming?"
						"Chickens," mused Russell. "Ah, yes-- chickens. Pine Crest Manor. Pine Crest Poultry
							Farm--sounds classy, doesn't it? And eggs at seventy-five cents a dozen--after all,
							that's they biggest confidence game going. Which do you advise, Bob--Wyandottes or
							Plymouth Rocks? "
						"Toss for it."
						"Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks?" murmured Joe Russell to himself. "Wyandottes, Plymouth
							Rocks?" .. .
						Russell continued his whispered meditation, but Clifford no longer heard him; in fact
							he had only half heard what Russell and Slant-Face had been saying. His gaze and
							thoughts had been upon Mary, just ahead of him at Thorne's side. Much he had done; but
							nonetheless his mind went ahead to  that which was still
							unsettled and unrevealed. He wondered what would be Mary Regan's attitude toward
							him--finally. And he wondered, too, what was the relationship between Mary and Thorne.
							... And these wonderments continued to be his major mental activities while they raced
							along amid the closely packed herd of cars that the late hour was driving back to the
							city; and, later, still continued to be while Bradley was being put into the Tombs,
							wherein he had brought his thousands; and, yet later, during the long hours up on the
							top floor of the Criminal Courts Building, while reporters were rattling questions at
							him and while members of the party were being examined by the District Attorney with
							whom Thorne had arranged for a course of action as prompt as the formalities of the
							law would permit. ...
						Toward four o'clock Slant-Face silently handed Clifford a bunch of ink-wet morning
							papers. Triumph could not be more complete than the papers recorded in their great
							spread stories of the previous evening's affair. And for Clifford triumph and
							vindication did not end with what had happened at the Sultan's Garden. For Louis
							Gordon, Bradley's instrument in that matter of long since which had brought about
							Clifford's original disgrace and his discharge from the Police Department, had seen in
							what direction lay safety and  without losing an hour
							had hastened up here to the District Attorney's office and made full confession.
							...
						"How does it feel to be a hero?" a voice beside him interrupted. Clifford turned; the
							speaker was Thorne. "I want a bit of a private talk with you, Clifford," he said, and
							slipping his arm through Clifford's, he led him along the dim paved gallery whose four
							sides enclosed the great inner court now silent and inhabited only by awesome shadows,
							but by day crowded and buzzing with friends of prisoners being tried, or waiting to be
							tried, within the score of court rooms.
						"I had the Mayor on the wire awhile ago," Thorne began. "we're to have a conference
							in the morning."
						"He's going to reinstate you," remarked Clifford. "All the papers have said that your
							reinstatement was assured."
						"I guess that's right. But I want to present to the Mayor part of a definite program.
							And most important of all, I want to tell him that I have secured as Bradley's
							successor as Chief of the Detective Bureau, Mr. Robert Clifford."
						Clifford flushed. "That's a greater honor than I expected. I can't express my thanks.
							But I can't accept."

						

						"Can't accept!" cried Thorne. "Why, I've been counting on you! Great Heavens,
							man--what's the matter?"
						"I don't want it."
						"Don't want it! . . . Oh, I see--you're afraid of making all the officers in the
							Department sore at you. But this isn't a case of my jumping a lieutenant over the
							heads of captains and inspectors. As you know, this job is not a police officer's, but
							a private citizen's job. you're out of the Department now, you're just a private
							citizen, and you're the best man for the place. there's no earthly reason why you
							shouldn't be appointed. And excuse me, Clifford--but by God, I'm going to appoint
							you!"
						Clifford shook his head.
						"You don't get my point. The job you offer is a big job--but it's an office job, a
							routine job. I don't want to be tied to a desk. I want to be free. I want to mix
							actively among people, keep on doing what I've been doing. That's where I can do most
							good, and that's what interests me most."
						Thorne gazed at him steadily for a moment. "That's final, Clifford?"
						"That's final."
						Thorne sighed. "Here's where I lose the man I wanted most. But I don't blame you so
							much;  administrative work doesn't bring you very close
							to life."
						He eyed Clifford quizzically, then softly remarked: "But there's another
							reason--yes?"
						Clifford met his gaze steadily. "Yes," he said.
						Clifford feared that Thorne might follow this line. He didn't want him to; for it led
							to regions that seemed too private even for himself to venture to examine. But Thorne
							drew out his watch.
						"Hello, I must be getting back to the District Attorney. I've got to be with him for
							some time. If it's not too much bother, Clifford, you might take Joe Russell, Miss
							Regan, et al., home in my car."
						He was starting away, when Clifford spoke up. "One moment, Commissioner. I'd like you
							to answer a question."
						"Fire away."
						"If you don't mind--why did you first assign me to look after Miss Regan?"
						"Hello, I see you've been entertaining a mystery here," smiled Thorne quizzically.
							"Was she in reality my own child?--in reality an heiress kidnapped in her early
							years?--in reality the daughter of some socially prominent family, with a daring
							kleptomaniac strain? Romance!--mystery!--chuck full of it!"
						Clifford answered smile with smile. "My mind  wasn't
							following such lines. But I couldn't help wondering."
						"It's really very simple," Thorne continued, soberly. "She's just who she is. I had
							information which led me to believe that she was, essentially, a fine square girl. I
							believed that with intelligent police handling she' would be brought around to be what
							it was in her nature to be. I knew you had ideas similar to mine, so I assigned her
							case to you. That's all the mystery there has been to the affair. It has just been a
							test of my theories--also of your theories. And I believe the experiment has
							succeeded."
						"I believe it has," said Clifford.
						" Well--luck with you, Clifford, in whatever you may do! And who knows?--in some way
							we may work together in the future."
						"I hope we do!" echoed Clifford.
						The two men clasped hands for a long moment.

						Thorne's touring car drew up before the old mansion near Washington Square, and its
							occupants stepped out.
						Joe Russell broke the silence with: "They'll be Plymouth Rocks, Bob--and I'm going to
							christen my head rooster after you. Hope you don't mind being its godfather.
							Good-night."
						The old man went up the stoop. Slant-Face  gripped
							Clifford's hand silently, and followed; and his wife, ne Jennie Malone, seized
							Clifford's fingers, uttered a few incoherent grateful words and hurried devotedly up
							the steps after her husband. She was becoming very domestic, this one-time wild flower
							of the streets, Clifford had learned.
						Mary lingered a moment, as he had hoped. "I want to thank you, too," she said. "we're
							moving out of here to-morrow. I don't know when I'll see you again. So this is
							good-by."
						"Good-by?" The word stupefied him; mechanically he took the hand she offered. Then in
							a degree he recovered. "Would you mind walking in Washington Square--for a few
							minutes?"
						She assented, and silently they turned southward. They crossed into the Square and
							found a bench near to that uprearing hulk of ironmongery upon which the Italian
							population hang their adoration--Garibaldi's statue--and here they sat speechless for
							a space, while above them began the drab miracle of a faintly breaking dawn.
						Telling a woman that he loves her is the most difficult task that a man's man ever
							drives himself, or is driven, to undertake. But after a time Clifford got through with
							it. A moment later he had been refused.
						"Is it because you don't care for me?" he asked huskily.

						

						"I was not thinking about what I cared for. I was thinking about
								you."
						"About me?"
						"You are just now a public character. You are a police official on his way up.
							don'tyou see what a newspaper sensation it would make if a rising police official
							should marry me?--being what I have been? don'tyou understand?"
						Clifford understood. And connected with the point she was making was his second, and
							unexplained, reason for refusing Thorne's offer.
						"You mean you do not want to interfere with my career?"
						She nodded. "And you know I should, if I married you."
						"Listen, Mary. I am only a private citizen, and I shall never be anything else. I
							shall never have any kind of a career that you would hinder."
						Her dark steady eyes gazed at him searchingly. Into his own gaze, and into his words,
							he strove to put all his power of conviction.
						"And as for what you may have done in the past, I want you to forget it just as
							though it were a bad dream from which you have awakened. Try to regard it just as
							though it had been done by some other person--as indeed it all truly was. The real
							Mary Regan, the Mary Regan as she is  now, sitting here
							beside me, possesses the best human qualities of any woman I know! "
						The steady dark eyes held searchingly upon him; and in them was a meditative,
							wondering quality, as if her eyes were also turned inward, searching herself. But she
							did not speak.
						"But that isn't why I love you," Clifford continued. "I love you because I can't help
							myself. . . . Mary--please!--do you love me?"
						A soft flush mounted into her cheeks, but her eyes did not waver. She nodded.
						"Then--"
						But she checked his eager attempt to take her into his arms. "That doesn't mean I'll
							marry you."
						"Then what does it mean?" exclaimed Clifford.
						A look of decison, a new decision, had come into the dark lovely face.
						"Before we can talk definitely about such things--I want to go off somewhere, alone,
							and think over what you have said about me. If I am really that different person, I
							want to get acquainted with myself. I seem so strange to myself, it all seems so
							strange. I hope you are right--but I must be sure--very sure--and so I am going
							away."
						Her look told Clifford there was no debating this point, that her decision was
							unchangeable.
						"But when you come back?" he cried eagerly.


						

						"A lot may happen before that," she answered gravely. "A lot to you, and a lot to
							me."
						"But when you come back?" he insisted.
						A tear-film glossed her eyes, her mouth twitched--and Clifford had his first vision
							of the great lode of tenderness that had lain unmined in the deeps of her soul.
						"When I come back," she breathed quaveringly, "if you still think the same way about
							my being that sort of person--and if I find it's really true--"
						But his strong arms closed about her. "Mary!"
						"Don't!" she gasped. "Remember, a lot may hap--"
						His kiss blotted out her warning. And forgetting for the moment all uncertainties,
							and all events which might lie within that future which she doubted, her lips clung
							tightly to his, and her arms crept about his neck, and she wept. . . .

						THE END

					

				

				


			

		


	

