
     ----CITATION---- 
        Johnston, Annie F. (Annie Fellows),
                            1863-1931.. The Little Colonel stories. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1848
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                THE LITTLE COLONEL STORIES
                (Trade Mark)
            
            
            
            	ADVERTISEMENT
                Works of ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON
                
                    The Little Colonel Series (Trade Mark, Reg. U. S. Pat. Of.) Each one vol., large
                        12mo, cloth, illustrated
                    The Little Colonel Stories $1.50 (Containing in
                        one volume the three stories, "The Little Colonel," "The Giant
                        Scissors," and "Two Little Knights of Kentucky.")
                    The Little Colonel's House Party 1.50
                    The Little Colonel's Holidays1.50
                    The Little Colonel's Hero1.50
                    The Little Colonel at Boarding-School1.50
                    The Little Colonel in Arizona1.50
                    The Little Colonel's Christmas Vacation1.50
                    The Little Colonel: Maid of Honor1.50
                    The Little Colonel's Knight Comes Riding1.50
                    Mary Ware: The Little Colonel's Chum1.50
                     Mary Ware in Texas1.50
                    Mary Ware's Promised Land1.50
                    The above 12 vols., boxed, as a set18.00
                
                
                    The Little Colonel Good Times Book1.50
                    The Little Colonel Doll Book--First Series1.50
                    The Little Colonel Doll Book--Second Series1.50
                
                
                    Illustrated Holiday Editions Each one
                        vol., small quarto, cloth, illustrated, and printed in color
                    The Little Colonel$1.25
                    The Giant Scissors1.25
                    Two Little Knights of Kentucky1.25
                    Big Brother1.25
                
                
                    Cosy Corner Series Each one vol.,
                        thin 12mo, cloth, illustrated
                    The Little Colonel$.50
                    The Giant Scissors.50
                    Two Little Knights of Kentucky.50
                    Big Brother.50
                    Ole Mammy's Torment.50
                    The Story of Dago.50
                    Cicely.50
                    Aunt 'Liza's Hero.50
                    The Quilt that Jack Built.50
                    Flip's "Islands of Providence".50
                    Mildred's Inheritance.50
                
                
                    
                        Other Books
                    
                    Joel: A Boy of Galilee$1.50
                    In the Desert of WaitingNet .50
                    The Three WeaversNet .50
                    Keeping TrystNet .50
                    The Legend of the Bleeding HeartNet .50
                    The Rescue of the Princess WinsomeNet .50
                    The Jester's SwordNet .50
                    Asa Holmes1.00
                    Travelers Five Along Life's Highway1.25
                
                
                    THE PAGE COMPANY
                
                53 Beacon StreetBoston, Mass
            
            
            
            
            	FRONTISPIECE
                
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    The Little Colonel Stories
                
                By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON Author of " The Little
                    Colonel Books," " Bik Brother," "Asa Holmes," "Ole Mammy's Torment,"
                    etc.
                Illustrated by ETHELDRED B. BARRY
                
                
                    BOSTON *
                    THE PAGE COMPANY * PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                Copyright, 1895, BY JOSEPH KNIGHT COMPANY
                Copyright, 1898, BY L. C.
                        PAGE & COMPANY (INCORPORATED)
                Copyright, 1899, BY L. C. PAGE & COMPANY (INCORPORATED)
                
                    All rights reserved
                
                Twenty-eighth Impression, August, 1919
            	THE COLONIAL PRESS 
            	C. H. SIMONDS CO., BOSTON, U. S. A.
            
            
            
                TO ONE OF KENTUCKY'S DEAREST LITTLE DAUGHTERS
                    "The Little Colonel" Herself THIS REMEMBRANCE OF A HAPPY
                    SUMMER IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED
            
            
            
            
                TABLE OF CONTENTS
                
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL
                    THE GIANT SCISSORS
                    TWO LITTLE KNIGHTS OF KENTUCKY
                
            
            
            
            
                LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL
                    PAGE
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL
                        Frontispiece
                        
                    
                    "''CAUSE I'M SO MUCH LIKE YOU,' WAS THE
                            STARTLING ANSWER " 9
                    "THE SAME TEMPER SEEMED TO BE BURNING IN THE EYES OF THE
                            CHILD" 26
                    "WITH THE PARROT PERCHED ON THE BROOM SHE WAS
                            CARRYING"42
                    "THE LITTLE COLONEL
                            CLATTERED UP AND DOWN THE HALL"48
                    "SINGING AT THE TOP OF HER VOICE"55
                    "'TELL ME GOOD-BY, BABY DEAR,' SAID MRS. SHERMAN"69
                    
                    "'AMANTHIS,' REPEATED THE CHILD DREAMILY"77
                    "SHE CLIMBED UP IN FRONT OF THE MIRROR"91
                    "THE SWEET LITTLE VOICE SANG IT TO THE END"97
                
                
                    THE GIANT SCISSORS
                    JULES10
                    WHERE JOYCE LIVED17
                    "'HE IS STOPPING AT THE GATE"'21
                    THE KING'S SONS27
                    "HE CUT IT LOOSE AND CARRIED IT HOME"39
                    THE PRINCESS41
                    "HE LAID HIS HEAD ON THE SILL"57
                    "IT FELL TO THE FLOOR WITH A CRASH"61
                    OUT WITH MARIE67
                    "HE CAME TOWARDS HER WITH A DAZED EXPRESSION ON HIS
                            FACE"75
                    INITIAL LETTER80
                    A LESSON IN PATRIOTISM89
                    TRYING TO READ95
                    "'OH, IF JACK COULD ONLY SEE
                            IT!'"108
                    "'BROSSARD, BEWARE !BEWARE!'"115
                    "THE CHILD CREPT CLOSE TO THE CHEERFUL FIRE"121
                    
                    JOYCE AND SISTER DENISA127
                    NUMBER THIRTY-ONE134
                    "JULES CAME OVER, AWKWARD AND SHY"141
                    "SITTING UP IN BED WITH THE QUILTS WRAPPED AROUND
                            HIM"149
                    "'THAT'S NUMBER THIRTY-ONE'"161
                    "WALKING UP AND DOWN THE PATHS"166
                    "KEEPING TIME TO THE MUSIC"180
                    "HE TOOK THE LITTLE FELLOW'S HAND IN HIS"185
                
                
                    TWO LITTLE KNIGHTS OF KENTUCKY PLANSIO
                    PLANS10
                    "BEHIND HIM CAME A BOY NO LARGER THAN KEITH"17
                    "ACROSS THE SNOWY FIELDS"27
                    VIRGINIA34
                    "'THE PRETTIEST VALENTINE OF ALL MUST GO TO POOR
                            PAPA'"43
                    "'DAPHNE, WHAT'S DEM CHILLUN ALLUZ RACIN' DOWN TO DE
                            SPRING-HOUSE FO'?'"51
                    "'IHATE TO GO OFF AND LEAVE HIM IN THE DARK"62
                    "WITH THE TALL SILVER CANDLESTICK HELD HIGH IN BOTH
                            HANDS"67
                    "'WILL YOU KEEP IT TO REMEMBER ME BY?'"73
                    "HE WAS CRYING VIOLENTLY NOW"89
                    "THERE WAS ONE BOOK WHICH KEITH CARRIED
                            AROUND WITH HIM"103
                    BEAUTY AND THE BEAST11O
                    "'I'D LIKE TO BE A KNIGHT ALWAYS'"118
                    "THE LITTLE COLONEL
                            HAD BEEN LOWERED INTO A DEEP FEED-BIN"127
                    THE RESCUE131
                    VIRGINIA AND THE CALF145
                    "'GIVE ME MY BOW"151
                    "NOBODY CAME"158
                    "LIVE PURE, SPEAK TRUTH, RIGHT THE WRONG, FOLLOW THE
                            KING. ELSE WHEREFORE BORN?"172
                    "THERE WERE THREE WITH HIM"185
                
            
        
        
            
            
            	The Little Colonel stories
            	
                
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        IT was one of the prettiest places in all Kentucky
                            where the Little Colonel stood that morning. She was reaching up on
                            tiptoes, her eager little face pressed close against the iron bars of
                            the great entrance gate that led to a fine old estate known as
                            "Locust."
                        A ragged little Scotch and Skye terrier stood on its hind feet beside
                            her, thrusting his inquisitive nose between the bars, and wagging his
                            tasselled tail in lively approval of the scene before them.
                        They were looking down a long avenue that stretched for nearly a quarter
                            of a mile between rows of stately old locust-trees
                        
                        At the far end they could see the white pillars of a large stone house
                            gleaming through the Virginia creeper that nearly covered it. But they
                            could not see the old Colonel in his big chair on the porch behind the
                            cool screen of vines.
                        At that very moment he had caught the rattle of wheels along the road,
                            and had picked up his field-glass to see who was passing. It was only a
                            coloured man jogging along in the heat and dust with a cart full of
                            chicken-coops. The Colonel watched him drive up a lane that led to the
                            back of the new hotel that had just been opened in this quiet country
                            place. Then his glance fell on the two small strangers coming through
                            his gate down the avenue toward him. One was the friskiest dog he had
                            ever seen in his life. The other was a child he judged to be about five
                            years old.
                        Her shoes were covered with dust, and her white sunbonnet had slipped off
                            and was hanging over her shoulders. A bunch of wild flowers she had
                            gathered on the way hung limp and faded in her little warm hand. Her
                            soft, light hair was cut as short as a boy's.
                        There was something strangely familiar  about
                            the child, especially in the erect, graceful way she walked.
                        Old Colonel Lloyd was puzzled. He had lived all his life in
                            Lloydsborough, and this was the first time he had ever failed to
                            recognize one of the neighbours' children. He knew every dog and horse,
                            too, by sight if not by name.
                        Living so far from the public road did not limit his knowledge of what
                            was going on in the world. A powerful field-glass brought every passing
                            object in plain view, while he was saved all annoyance of noise and
                            dust.
                        "I ought to know that child as well as I know my own name," he said to
                            himself. "But the dog is a stranger in these parts. Liveliest thing I
                            ever set eyes on! They must have come from the hotel. Wonder what they
                            want."
                        He carefully wiped the lens for a better view. When he looked again he
                            saw that they evidently had not come to visit him.
                        They had stopped half-way down the avenue, and climbed up on a rustic
                            seat to rest.
                        The dog sat motionless about two minutes, 
                            his red tongue hanging out as if he were completely exhausted.
                        Suddenly he gave a spring, and bounded away through the tall blue grass.
                            He was back again in a moment, with a stick in his mouth. Standing up
                            with his fore paws in the lap of his little mistress, he looked so
                            wistfully into her face that she could not refuse this invitation for a
                            romp.
                        The Colonel chuckled as they went tumbling about in the grass to find the
                            stick which the child repeatedly tossed away.
                        He hitched his chair along to the other end of the porch as they kept
                            getting farther away from the avenue.
                        It had been many a long year since those old locust-trees had seen a
                            sight like that. Children never played any more under their dignified
                            shadows.
                        Time had been (but they only whispered this among themselves on rare
                            spring days like this) when the little feet chased each other up and
                            down the long walk, as much at home as the pewees in the beeches.
                        Suddenly the little maid stood up straight, 
                            and began to sniff the air, as if some delicious odour had blown across
                            the lawn.
                        "Fritz," she exclaimed, in delight, "I 'mell 'trawberries!"
                        The Colonel, who could not hear the remark, wondered at the abrupt pause
                            in the game. He understood it, however, when he saw them wading through
                            the tall grass, straight to his strawberry bed. It was the pride of his
                            heart, and the finest for miles around. The first berries of the season
                            had been picked only the day before. Those that now hung temptingly red
                            on the vines he intended to send to his next neighbour, to prove his
                            boasted claim of always raising the finest and earliest fruit.
                        He did not propose to have his plans spoiled by these stray guests.
                            Laying the field-glass in its accustomed place on the little table
                            beside his chair, he picked up his hat and strode down the walk.
                        Colonel Lloyd's friends all said he looked like Napoleon, or rather like
                            Napoleon might have looked had he been born and bred a Kentuckian.
                        He made an imposing figure in his suit of white duck.
                        
                        The Colonel always wore white from May till October.
                        There was a military precision about him, from his erect carriage to the
                            cut of the little white goatee on his determined chin.
                        No one looking into the firm lines of his resolute face could imagine him
                            ever abandoning a purpose or being turned aside when he once formed an
                            opinion.
                        Most children were afraid of him. The darkies about the place shook in
                            their shoes when he frowned. They had learned from experience that "ole
                            Marse Lloyd had a tigah of a tempah in him."
                        As he passed down the walk there were two mute witnesses to his old
                            soldier life. A spur gleamed on his boot heel, for he had just returned
                            from his morning ride, and his right sleeve hung empty.
                        He had won his title bravely. He had given his only son and his strong
                            right arm to the Southern cause. That had been nearly thirty years
                            ago.
                        He did not charge down on the enemy with his usual force this time. The
                            little head, gleaming like sunshine in the strawberry patch,  reminded him so strongly of a little fellow
                            who used to follow him everywhere,--Tom, the sturdiest, handsomest boy
                            in the county,--Tom, whom he had been so proud of, whom he had so nearly
                            worshipped.
                        Looking at this fair head bent over the vines, ie could almost forget
                            that Tom had ever outgrown his babyhood, that he had shouldered a rifle
                            and followed him to camp, a mere boy, to be shot down by a Yankee bullet
                            in his first battle. The old Colonel could almost believe he had him
                            back again, and that he stood in the midst of those old days the locusts
                            sometimes whispered about.
                        He could not hear the happiest of little voices that was just then
                            saying, " Oh, Fritz, isn't you glad we came? An' isn't you glad we've
                            got a gran'fathah with such good 'trawberries? " It was hard for her to
                            put the s before her consonants.
                        As the Colonel came nearer she tossed another berry into the dog's mouth.
                            A twig snapped, and she raised a startled face toward him.
                        " Suh ?" she said, timidly, for it seemed to her that the stern, piercing
                            eyes had spoken
                        
                        "What are you doing here, child?" he asked, in a voice so much kinder
                            than his eyes that she regained her usual self-possession at once.
                        "Eatin' 'trawberries," she answered, coolly.
                        "Who are you, anyway?" he exclaimed, much puzzled. As he asked the
                            question his gaze happened to rest on the dog, who was peering at him
                            through the ragged, elfish wisps of hair nearly covering its face, with
                            eyes that were startlingly human.
                        "'Peak when yo'ah 'poken to, Fritz," she said, severely, at the same time
                            popping another luscious berry into her mouth.
                        Fritz obediently gave a long yelp. The Colonel smiled grimly.
                        " What's your name? " he asked, this time looking directly at her.
                        " Mothah calls me her baby," was the soft-spoken reply, "but papa an' Mom
                            Beck they calls me the Little Cun'l."
                        "What under the sun do they call you that for ?" he roared.
                        "'Cause I'm so much like you," was the startling answer.
                        
                        "Like me!" fairly gasped the Colonel. "How are you like me?"
                        "Oh, I'm got such a vile tempah, an' I stamps my foot when I gets mad,
                            an' gets all red in the face. An' I hollahs at folks, an' looks jus' zis
                            way."
                        
                        She drew her face down and puckered her lips into such a sullen pout that
                            it looked as if a thunder-storm had passed over it. The next instant she
                            smiled up at him serenely.
                        The Colonel laughed. " What makes you think I am like that?" he said.
                            "You never saw me before."
                        
                        "Yes, I have too," she persisted. "You's a-hangin' in a gold frame over
                            ou' mantel."
                        Just then a clear, high voice was heard calling out in the road.
                        The child started up in alarm. " Oh, deah," she exclaimed in dismay, at
                            sight of the stains on her white dress, where she had been kneeling on
                            the fruit, "that's Mom Beck. Now I'll be tied up, and maybe put to bed
                            for runnin' away again. But the berries is mighty nice," she added,
                            politely. " Good mawnin', suh. Fritz, we mus' be goin' now."
                        The voice was coming nearer.
                        " I'll walk down to the gate with you," said the Colonel, anxious to
                            learn something more about his little guest.
                        "Oh, you'd bettah not, suh! " she cried in alarm. " Mom Beck doesn't like
                            you a bit. She just hates you! She's goin' to give you a piece of her
                            mind the next time she sees you. I heard her tell Aunt Nervy so."
                        There was as much real distress in the child's voice as if she were
                            telling him of a promised flogging.
                        "Lloyd! Aw, Lloy-eed!" the call came again.
                        
                        A neat-looking coloured woman glanced in at the gate as she was passing
                            by. and then stood still in amazement. She had often found her little
                            charge playing along the roadside or hiding behind trees, but she had
                            never before known her to pass through any one's gate.
                        As the name came floating down to him through the clear air, a change
                            came over the Colonel's stern face. He stooped over the child. His hand
                            trembled as he put it under her soft chin, and raised her eyes to
                            his.
                        "Lloyd, Lloyd!" he repeated, in a puzzled way. "Can it be possible? There
                            certainly is a wonderful resemblance. You have my little Tom's hair, and
                            only my baby Elizabeth ever had such hazel eyes."
                        He caught her up in his one arm, and strode on to the gate, where the
                            coloured woman stood.
                        "Why, Becky, is that you?" he cried, recognizing an old, trusted servant
                            who had lived at Locust in his wife's lifetime.
                        Her only answer was a sullen nod.
                        "Whose child is this? " he asked, eagerly, without seeming to notice her
                            defiant looks. "Tell me if you can."
                        
                        "How can I tell you, suh," she demanded, indignantly, " when you have
                            fo'bidden even her name to be spoken befo' you ? "
                        A harsh look came into the Colonel's eyes. He put the child hastily down,
                            and pressed his lips together.
                        "Don't tie my sunbonnet, Moms Beck," she begged. Then she waved her hand
                            with an engaging smile.
                        "Good-bye, suh," she said, graciously. "We've had a mighty nice
                            time!"
                        The Colonel took off his hat with his usual courtly bow, but he spoke no
                            word in reply.
                        When the last flutter of her dress had disappeared around the bend of the
                            road, he walked slowly back toward the house.
                        Half-way down the long avenue where she had stopped to rest, he sat down
                            on the same rustic seat. He could feel her soft little fingers resting
                            on his neck, where they had lain when he carried her to the gate.
                        A very un-Napoleonlike mist blurred his sight for a moment. It had been
                            so long since such a touch had thrilled him, so long since any caress
                            had been given him.
                        
                        More than a score of years had gone by since Tom had been laid in a
                            soldier's grave, and the years that Elizabeth had been lost to him
                            seemed almost a lifetime.
                        And this was Elizabeth's little daughter. Something very warm and sweet
                            seemed to surge across his heart as he thought of the Little Colonel. He
                            was glad, for a moment, that they called her that; glad that his only
                            grandchild looked enough like himself for others to see the
                            resemblance.
                        But the feeling passed as he remembered that his daughter had married
                            against his wishes, and he had closed his doors for ever against
                            her.
                        The old bitterness came back redoubled in its force.
                        The next instant he was stamping down the avenue, roaring for Walker, his
                            body-servant, in such a tone that the cook's advice was speedily taken:
                            " Bettah hump yo'self outen dis heah kitchen befo' de ole tigah gits to
                            lashin' roun' any pearter."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        MOM BECK carried the ironing-board
                            out of the hot kitchen, set the irons off the stove, and then tiptoed
                            out to the side porch of the little cottage.
                        "Is yo' head feelin' any bettah, honey?" she said to the pretty,
                            girlish-looking woman lying in the hammock. "I promised to step up to
                            the hotel this evenin' to see one of the chambah-maids. I thought I'd
                            take the Little Cun'l along with me if you was willin'. She's always
                            wild to play with Mrs. Wyford's children up there."
                        "Yes, I'm better, Becky," was the languid reply." Put a clean dress on
                            Lloyd if you are going to take her out."
                        Mrs. Sherman closed her eyes again, thinking gratefully, "Dear, faithful
                            old Becky! What a comfort she has been all my life. first  as my nurse, and now as Lloyd's! She is
                            worth her weight in gold!"
                        The afternoon shadows were stretching long across the grass when Mom Beck
                            led the child up the green slope in front of the hotel.
                        The Little Colonel had danced along so gaily with Fritz that her cheeks
                            glowed like wild roses. She made a quaint little picture with such short
                            sunny hair and dark eyes shining out from under the broad-brimmed white
                            hat she wore.
                        Several ladies who were sitting on the shady piazza, busy with their
                            embroidery, noticed her admiringly.
                        "It's Elizabeth Lloyd's little daughter," one of them explained. "Don't
                            you remember what a scene there was some years ago when she married a
                            New York man? Sherman, I believe, his name was, Jack Sherman. He was a
                            splendid fellow, and enormously wealthy. Nobody could say a word against
                            him, except that he was a Northerner. That was enough for the old
                            Colonel, though. He hates Yankees like poison. He stormed and swore, and
                            forbade Elizabeth ever coming in his sight again. He had her room locked
                            up, and not a soul on  the place ever dares
                            mention her name in his hearing."
                        The Little Colonel sat down demurely on the piazza steps to wait for the
                            children. The nurse had not finished dressing them for the evening.
                        She amused herself by showing Fritz the pictures in an illustrated
                            weekly. It was not long until she began to feel that the ladies were
                            talking about her. She had lived among older people so entirely that her
                            thoughts were much deeper than her baby speeches would lead one to
                            suppose.
                        She understood dimly, from what she had heard the servants say, that
                            there was some trouble between her mother and grandfather. Now she heard
                            it rehearsed from beginning to end. She could not understand what they
                            meant by " bank failures" and " unfortunate investments," but she
                            understood enough to know that her father had lost nearly all his money,
                            and had gone West to make more.
                        Mrs. Sherman had moved from their elegant New York home two weeks ago to
                            this little cottage in Lloydsborough that her mother had left her.
                            Instead of the houseful of  servants they
                            used to have, there was only faithful Mom Beck to do everything.
                        There was something magnetic in the child's eyes.
                        Mrs. Wyford shrugged her shoulders uneasily as she caught their piercing
                            gaze fixed on her.
                        "I do believe that little witch understood every word I said," she
                            exclaimed.
                        " Oh, certainly not," was the reassuring an swer. " She's such a little
                            thing."
                        But she had heard it all, and understood enough to make her vaguely
                            unhappy. Going home she did not frisk along with Fritz, but walked
                            soberly by Mom Beck's side, holding tight to the friendly black
                            hand.
                        " We'll go through the woods," said Mom Beck, lifting her over the fence.
                            " It's not so long that way."
                        As they followed the narrow, straggling path into the cool dusk of the
                            woods, she began to sing. The crooning chant was as mournful as a
                            funeral dirge.
                        
                            The clouds hang heavy, an' it's gwine to rain.
                            Fa'well, my dyin' friends.
                            
                            I'm gwine to lie in the silent tomb.
                            Fa'well, my dyin' friends."
                        
                        A muffled little sob made her stop and look down in surprise.
                        "Why, what's the mattah, honey? " she exclaimed." Did Emma Louise make
                            you mad? Or is you cryin' 'cause you're so ti'ed? Come! Ole Becky'll
                            tote her baby the rest of the way."
                        She picked the light form up in her arms, and, pressing the troubled
                            little face against her shoulder, resumed her walk and her song.
                        
                            "It's a world of trouble we're travellin' through.
                            Fa'well, my dyin' friends."
                        
                        "Oh, don't, Mom Beck," sobbed the child, throwing her arms around the
                            woman's neck, and crying as though her heart would break.
                        "Land sakes, what is the mattah?" she asked, in alarm. She sat down on a
                            mossy log, took off the white hat, and looked into the flushed, tearful
                            face.
                        "Oh, it makes me so lonesome when you sing that way," wailed the Little
                            Colonel." I just can't 'tand it! Mom Beck, is my mothah's heart all
                            broken? Is that why she is sick so much, and will it kill her suah
                            'nuff?"
                        
                        "Who's been tellin' you such nonsense?" asked the woman, sharply.
                        "Some ladies at the hotel were talkin' about it. They said that
                            gran'fathah didn't love her any moah, an' it was just a-killin' her."
                            Mom Beck frowned fiercely.
                        The child's grief was so deep and intense that she did not know just how
                            to quiet her. Then she said, decidedly, "Well, if that's all that's
                            a-troublin' you, you can jus' get down an' walk home on yo' own laigs.
                            Yo' mamma's a-grievin' 'cause yo' papa has to be away all the time.
                            She's all wo'n out, too, with the work of movin', when she's nevah been
                            use to doin' anything. But her, heart isn't broke any moah'n my neck
                            is."
                        The positive words 'and the decided toss Mom Beck gave her head settled
                            the matter for the Little Colonel. She wiped her eyes and stood up much
                            relieved.
                        "Don't you nevah go to worryin' 'bout what you heahs," continued the
                            woman. " I tell you p'intedly you cyarnt nevah b'lieve what you
                            heahs."
                        "Why doesn't gran'fathah love my mothah?" asked the child, as they came
                            in  sight of the cottage. She had puzzled
                            over the knotty problem all the way home. "How can papas not love their
                            little girls?"
                        "'Cause he's stubbo'n," was the unsatisfactory answer. "All the Lloyds
                            is. Yo' mamma's stubbo'n, an' you's stubbo'n--"
                        "I'm not!" shrieked the Little Colonel, stamping her foot. "You sha'n't
                            call me names!"
                        Then she saw a familiar white hand waving to her from the hammock, and
                            she broke away from Mom Beck with very red cheeks and very bright
                            eyes.
                        Cuddled close in her mother's arms, she had a queer feeling that she had
                            grown a great deal older in that short afternoon.
                        Maybe she had. For the first time in her little life she kept her
                            troubles to herself, and did not once mention the thought that was
                            uppermost in her mind.
                        " Yo' great-aunt Sally Tylah is comin' this mawnin'," said Mom Beck, the
                            day after their visit to the hotel. "Do fo' goodness' sake keep yo'self
                            clean. I'se got too many spring chickens to dress to think 'bout
                            dressin' you up again."
                        
                        "Did I evah see her befo'?" questioned the Little Colonel.
                        "Why, yes, the day we moved heah. Don't you know she came and stayed so
                            long, and the rockah broke off the little white rockin'-chair when she
                            sat down in it? "
                        "Oh, now I know!" laughed the child. " She's the big fat one with curls
                            hangin' round her yeahs like shavin's. I don't like her, Mom Beck. She
                            keeps a-kissin' me all the time, an' a-'queezin' me, an' tellin' me to
                            sit on her lap an' be a little lady. Mom Beck, I de'pise to be a little lady."
                        There was no answer to her last remark. Mom Beck had stepped into the
                            pantry for more eggs for the cake she was making.
                        " Fritz," said the Little Colonel, " yo' great-aunt Sally Tylah's comin'
                            this mawnin', an' if you don't want to say 'howdy' to her you'll have to
                            come with me."
                        A few minutes later a resolute little figure squeezed between the palings
                            of the garden fence down by the gooseberry bushes.
                        " Now walk on your tiptoes, Fritz!" commanded the Little Colonel, " else
                            somebody will call us back."
                        
                        Mom Beck, busy with her extra baking, supposed she was with her mother on
                            the shady, vine-covered porch.
                        She would not have been singing quite so gaily if she could have seen
                            half a mile up the road.
                        The Little Colonel was sitting in the weeds by the railroad track,
                            deliberately taking off her shoes and stockings.
                        "Just like a little niggah," she said, delightedly, as she stretched out
                            her bare feet. " Mom Beck says I ought to know bettah. But it does feel
                            so good!"
                        No telling how long she might have sat there enjoying the forbidden
                            pleasure of dragging her rosy toes through the warm dust, if she had not
                            heard a horse's hoof-beats coming rapidly along.
                        "Fritz, it's gran'fathah," she whispered, in alarm, recognizing the erect
                            figure of the rider in its spotless suit of white duck.
                        "Sh! lie down in the weeds, quick! Lie down, I say!"
                        They both made themselves as flat as possible, and lay there panting with
                            the exertion of keeping still.
                        
                        Presently the Little Colonel raised her head cautiously.
                        "Oh, he's gone down that lane!" she exclaimed. "Now you can get up."
                            After a moment's deliberation she asked, "Fritz, would you rathah have
                            some 'trawberries an' be tied up fo' runnin' away, or not be tied up and
                            not have any of those nice tas'en 'trawberries?"
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        Two hours later, Colonel Lloyd, riding down the avenue under the locusts,
                            was surprised by a novel sight on his stately front steps.
                        Three little darkies and a big flop-eared hound were crouched on the
                            bottom step, looking up at the Little Colonel, who sat just above
                            them.
                        She was industriously stirring something in an old rusty pan with a big,
                            battered spoon.
                        "Now, May Lilly," she ordered, speaking to the largest and blackest of
                            the group, "you run an' find some nice 'mooth pebbles to put in for
                            raisins. Henry Clay, you go get me some moah sand. This is 'most too
                            wet."
                        "Here, you little pickaninnies!" roared the Colonel, as he recognized the
                            cook's children. "What did I tell you about playing around Pere,
                            tracking dirt all over my premises? You 
                            just chase back to the cabin where you belong! "
                        The sudden call startled Lloyd so that she dropped the pan, and the great
                            mud pie turned upside down on the white steps.
                        "Well, you're a pretty sight!" said the Colonel, as he glanced with
                            disgust from her soiled dress and muddy hands to her bare feet. He had
                            been in a bad humour all morning. The sight of the steps covered with
                            sand and muddy tracks gave him an excuse to give vent to his cross
                            feelings.
                        It was one of his theories that a little girl should always be kept as
                            fresh and dainty as a flower. He had never seen his own little daughter
                            in such a plight as this, and she had never been allowed to step outside
                            of her own room without her shoes and stockings.
                        "What does your mother mean," he cried, savagely, " by letting you run
                            barefooted around the country just like poor white trash? An' what are
                            you playing with low-flung niggers for? Haven't you ever been taught any
                            better? I suppose it's some of your father's miserable Yankee
                            notions."
                        May Lilly, peeping around the corner of the 
                            house, rolled her frightened eyes from one angry face to the
                            other. The same temper that glared from the face of the man, sitting
                            erect in his saddle, seemed to be burning in the eyes of the child who
                            stood so defiantly before him.
                        The same kind of scowl drew their eyebrows together darkly.
                        "Don't you talk that  way to me," cried the
                            Little Colonel, trembling with a wrath she did not know how to
                            express.
                        Suddenly she stooped, and snatching both hands full of mud from the
                            overturned pie, flung it wildly over the spotless white coat.
                        Colonel Lloyd gasped with astonishment. It was the first time in his life
                            he had ever been openly defied. The next moment his anger gave way to
                            amusement.
                        "By George!" he chuckled, admiringly. "The little thing has got spirit,
                            sure enough. She's a Lloyd through and through. So that's why they call
                            her the 'Little Colonel,' is it?"
                        There was a tinge of pride in the look he gave her haughty little head
                            and flashing eyes.
                        "There, there, child!" he said, soothingly. "I didn't mean to make you
                            mad, when you were good enough to come and see me. It isn't often I have
                            a little lady like you to pay me a visit."
                        "I didn't come to see you, suh," she answered, indignantly, as she
                            started toward the gate. "I came to see May Lilly. But I nevah would
                            have come inside yo' gate if I'd known you was goin' to hollah at me an'
                            be so cross."
                        She was walking off with the air of an offended  queen, when the Colonel remembered that if he allowed her
                            to go away in that mood she would probably never set foot on his grounds
                            again. Her display of temper had interested him immensely.
                        Now that he had laughed off his ill humour, he was anxious to see what
                            other traits of character she possessed.
                        He wheeled his horse across the walk to bar her way, and quickly
                            dismounted.
                        "Oh, now, wait a minute," he said, in a coaxing tone." Don't you want a
                            nice big saucer of strawberries and cream before you go? Walker's
                            picking some now. And you haven't seen my hothouse. It's just full of
                            the loveliest flowers you ever saw. You like roses, don't you, and pinks
                            and lilies and pansies?"
                        He saw he had struck the right chord as soon as he mentioned the flowers.
                            The sullen look vanished as if by magic. Her face changed as suddenly as
                            an April day.
                        "Oh, yes!" she cried, with a beaming smile. "I loves 'm bettah than
                            anything!"
                        He tied his horse, and led the way to the conservatory. He opened the
                            door for her to pass through, and then watched her closely to  see what impression it would make on her.
                            He had expected a delighted exclamation of surprise, for he had good
                            reason to be proud of his rare plants. They were arranged with a true
                            artist's eye for colour and effect.
                        She did not say a word for a moment, but drew a long breath, while the
                            delicate pink in her cheeks deepened and her eyes lighted up. Then she
                            began going slowly from flower to flower, laying her face against the
                            cool, velvety purple of the pansies, touching the roses with her lips,
                            and tilting the white lily-cups to look into their golden depths.
                        As she passed from one to another as lightly as a butterfly might have
                            done, she began chanting in a happy undertone.
                        Ever since she had learned to talk she had a quaint little way of singing
                            to herself. All the names that pleased her fancy she strung together in
                            a crooning melody of her own.
                        There was no special tune. It sounded happy, although nearly always in a
                            minor key.
                        "Oh, the jonquils an' the lilies!" she sang. "All white an' gold an'
                            yellow. Oh, they're all a-smilin' at me, an' a-sayin' howdy! howdy!"
                        
                        She was so absorbed in her intense enjoyment that she forgot all about
                            the old Colonel. She was wholly unconscious that he was watching or
                            listening.
                        "She really does love them," he thought, complacently. "To see her face
                            one would think she had found a fortune."
                        It was another bond between them. After awhile he took a small basket
                            from the wall, and began to fill it with his choicest blooms.
                        "You shall have these to take home," he said. " Now come into the house
                            and get your strawberries."
                        She followed him reluctantly, turning back several times for one more
                            long sniff of the delicious fragrance.
                        She was not at all like the Colonel's ideal of what a little girl should
                            be, as she sat in one of the high, stiff chairs, enjoying her
                            strawberries. Her dusty little toes wriggled around in the curls on
                            Fritz's back, as she used him for a footstool. Her dress was draggled
                            and dirty, and she kept leaning over to give the dog berries and cream
                            from the spoon she was eating with herself.
                        
                        He forgot all this, however, when she began to talk to him.
                        "My great-aunt Sally Tylah is to ou' house this mawnin'," she announced,
                            confidentially. "That's why we came off. Do you know my Aunt Sally
                            Tylah?"
                        "Well, slightly!" chuckled the Colonel. " She was my wife's half-sister.
                            So you don't like her, eh? Well, I don't like her either."
                        He threw back his head and laughed heartily. The more the child talked
                            the more entertaining he found her. He did not remember when he had ever
                            been so amused before as he was by this tiny counterpart of himself.
                            When the last berry had vanished, she slipped down from the tall
                            chair.
                        " Do you 'pose it's very late? " she asked, in an anxious voice. " Mom
                            Beck will be comin' for me soon."
                        " Yes, it is nearly noon," he answered. " It didn't do much good to run
                            away from your Aunt Tyler; she'll see you after all."
                        " Well, she can't 'queeze me an' kiss me, 'cause I've been naughty, an'
                            I'll be put to bed like I was the othah day, just as soon as I get home.
                            I 'most wish I was there now," she  sighed.
                            "It's so fa' an' the sun's so hot. I lost my sunbonnet when I was comin'
                            heah, too."
                        Something in the tired, dirty face prompted the old Colonel to say,
                            "Well, my horse hasn't been put away yet. I'll take you home on Maggie
                            Boy."
                        The next moment he repented making such an offer, thinking what the
                            neighbours might say if they should meet him on the road with
                            Elizabeth's child in his arm.
                        But it was too late. lie could not unclasp the trusting little hand that
                            was slipped in his. He could not cloud the happiness of the eager little
                            face by retracting his promise.
                        He swung himself into the saddle, with her in front.
                        Then he put his one arm around her with a firm clasp, as he reached
                            forward to take the bridle.
                        "You couldn't take Fritz on behin', could you?" she asked, anxiously.
                            "He's mighty ti'ed too."
                        "No," said the Colonel, with a laugh. "Maggie Boy might object and throw
                            us all off."
                        
                        Hugging her basket of flowers close in her arms, she leaned her head
                            against him contentedly as they cantered down the avenue.
                        "Look!" whispered all the locusts, waving their hands to each other
                            excitedly. "Look! The master has his own again. The dear old times are
                            coming back to us."
                        "How the trees blow!" exclaimed the child, looking up at the green arch
                            overhead. "See! They's all a-noddin' to each othah."
                        "We'll have to get my shoes an' 'tockin's," she said, presently, when
                            they were nearly home. "They're in that fence cawnah behin' a log."
                        The Colonel obediently got down and handed them to her. As he mounted
                            again he saw a carriage coming toward them. He recognized one of his
                            nearest neighbours. Striking the astonished Maggie Boy with his spur, he
                            turned her across the railroad track, down the steep embankment, and
                            into an unfrequented lane.
                        " This road is just back of your garden," he said. "Can you get through
                            the fence if I take you there?"
                        "That's the way we came out," was the 
                            answer. "See that hole where the palin's are off?"
                        Just as he was about to lift her down, she put one arm around his neck,
                            and kissed him softly on the cheek.
                        "Good-bye, gran'fatha'," she said, in her most winning way." I've had a
                            mighty nice time." Then she added, in a lower tone, "Kuse me fo'
                            throwin' mud on yo' coat."
                        He held her close a moment, thinking nothing had ever before been half so
                            sweet as the way she called him grandfather.
                        From that moment his heart went out to her as it had to little Tom, and
                            Elizabeth. It made no difference if her mother had forfeited his love.
                            It made no difference if Jack Sherman was her father, and that the two
                            men heartily hated each other.
                        It was his own little grandchild he held in his arms.
                        She had sealed the relationship with a trusting kiss.
                        "Child," he said, huskily, "you will come and see me again, won't you, no
                            matter if they do tell you not to? You shall have all the  flowers and berries you want, and you can
                            ride Maggie Boy as often as you please."
                        She looked up into his face. It was very familiar to her. She had looked
                            at his portrait often, unconsciously recognizing a kindred spirit that
                            she longed to know.
                        Her ideas of grandfathers, gained from stories and observation, led her
                            to class them with fairy godmothers. She had always wished for one.
                        The day they moved to Lloydsborough, Locust had been pointed out to her
                            as her grandfather's home. From that time on she slipped away with Fritz
                            on every possible occasion to peer through the gate, hoping for a
                            glimpse of him.
                        "Yes, I'll come suah!" she promised. "I likes you just lots,
                            gran'fathah!"
                        He watched her scramble through the hole in the fence. Then he turned his
                            horse's head slowly homeward.
                        A scrap of white lying on the grass attracted his attention as he neared
                            the gate.
                        "It's the lost sunbonnet," he said, with a smile. He carried it into the
                            house, and hung it on the hat-rack in the wide front hall.
                        
                        "O'le marse is crosser'n two sticks," growled Walker to the cook at
                            dinner. "There ain't no livin' with him. What do you s'pose is the
                            mattah?"
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV.
                        MOM BECK was busy putting lunch on
                            the table when the Little Colonel looked in at the kitchen door.
                        So she did not see a little tramp, carrying her shoes in one hand, and a
                            basket in the other, who paused there a moment. But when she took up the
                            pan of beaten biscuit she was puzzled to find that several were
                            missing.
                        "It beats my time," she said, aloud. "The parrot couldn't have reached
                            them, an' Lloyd an' the dog have been in the pa'lah all mawnin'.
                            Somethin' has jus' natch'ly done sperrited 'em away."
                        Fritz was gravely licking his lips, and the Little Colonel had her mouth
                            full, when they suddenly made their appearance on the front porch.
                        Aunt Sally Tyler gave a little shriek, and stopped rocking.
                        
                        "Why, Lloyd Sherman!" gasped her mother, in dismay." Where have you been?
                            I thought you were with Becky all the time. I was sure I heard you
                            singing out there a little while ago."
                        "I've been to see my gran'fathah," said the child, speaking very fast. "I
                            made mud pies on his front 'teps, an' we both of us got mad, an' I
                            throwed mud on him, an' he gave me some 'trawberries an' all these
                            flowers, an' brought me home on Maggie Boy."
                        She stopped out of breath. Mrs. Tyler and her niece exchanged astonished
                            glances.
                        " But, baby, how could you disgrace mother so by going up there looking
                            like a dirty little beggar?"
                        "He didn't care," replied Lloyd, calmly. "He made me promise to come
                            again, no mattah if you all did tell me not to."
                        Just then Becky announced that lunch was ready, and carried the child
                            away to make her presentable.
                        To Lloyd's great surprise she was not put to bed, but was allowed to go
                            to the table as soon as she was dressed. It was not long until  she had told every detail of the morning's
                            experience. 
                        While she was taking her afternoon nap, the two ladies sat out on the
                            porch, gravely discussing all she had told them.
                        " It doesn't seem right for me to allow her to go there," said Mrs.
                            Sherman, " after the way papa has treated us. I can never forgive him
                            for all the terrible things he has said about Jack, and I know Jack can
                            never be friends with him on account of what he has said about me. He
                            has been so harsh and unjust that I don't want my little Lloyd to have
                            anything to do with him. I wouldn't for worlds have him think that I
                            encouraged her going there."
                        " Well, yes, I know," answered her aunt, slowly. " But there are some
                            things to consider besides your pride, Elizabeth. There's the child
                            herself, you know. Now that Jack has lost so much, and your prospects
                            are so uncertain, you ought to think of her interests. It would be a
                            pity for Locust to go to strangers when it has been in your family .for
                            so many generations. That's what it certainly 'will do unless something
                            turns up to interfere. Old Judge Woodard told me himself that youth  father had made a will, leaving everything
                            he owns to some medical institution. Imagine Locust being turned into a
                            sanitarium or a training-school for nurses!"
                        "Dear old place!" said Mrs. Sherman, with tears in her eyes. "No one ever
                            had a happier childhood than I passed under these old locusts. Every
                            tree seems like a friend. I would be glad for Lloyd to enjoy the place
                            as I did." "I'd let her go as much as she pleases, Elizabeth. She's so
                            much like the old Colonel that they ought to understand each other, and
                            get along capitally. Who knows, it might end in you all making up some
                            day."
                        Mrs. Sherman raised her head haughtily. "No, indeed, Aunt Sally. 'I can
                            forgive and forget much, but you are greatly mistaken if you think I can
                            go to such lengths as that. He closed his doors against me with a curse,
                            for no reason on earth but that the man I loved was born north of the
                            Mason and Dixon line. 'There never was a nobler man living that Jack,
                            and papa would have seen it if he hadn't deliberately shut his eyes and
                            refused to look at him. He was just prejudiced and stubborn."
                        
                        Aunt Sally said nothing, but her thoughts took the shape of Mom Beck's
                            declaration, "The Lloyds is all stubbo'n."
                        "I wouldn't go through his gate now if he got down on his knees and
                            begged me," continued Elizabeth, hotly.
                        "It's too bad," exclaimed her aunt; "he was always so perfectly devoted
                            to 'little daughter,' as he used to call you. I don't like him myself.
                            We never could get along together at all, because he is so high-strung
                            and overbearing. But I know it would have made your poor mother mighty
                            unhappy if she could have foreseen all this."
                        Elizabeth sat with the tears dropping down on her little white hands, as
                            her aunt proceeded to work on her sympathies in every way she could
                            think of.
                        Presently Lloyd came out all fresh and rosy from her long nap, and went
                            to play in the shade of the great beech-trees that guarded the
                            cottage.
                        "I never saw a child with such influence over animals," said her mother,
                            as Lloyd came around the house with the parrot perched on the broom she
                            was carrying. "She'll walk  right up to any
                            strange dog and make friends with it, no matter how savage-looking it
                            is. And there's Polly, so old and cross that she screams and scolds
                            dreadfully if any of us go near her. But Lloyd dresses her up in doll's
                            clothes, puts paper bonnets on her, and makes her just as uncomfortable
                            as she pleases. Look! that is one of her favourite amusements."
                        The Little Colonel squeezed the parrot into a tiny doll carriage, and
                            began to trundle it back and forth as fast as she  could
                            run.
                        "Ha! ha!" screamed the bird. "Polly is a lady! Oh, Lordy! I'm so
                            happy!"
                        "She caught that from the washerwoman," laughed Mrs. Sherman. "I should
                            think the poor thing would be dizzy from whirling around so fast."
                        "Quit that, chillun; stop yo' fussin'," screamed Polly, as Lloyd grabbed
                            her up and  began to pin a shawl around her
                            neck. She clucked angrily, but never once attempted to snap at the
                            dimpled fingers that squeezed her tight. Suddenly, as if her patience
                            was completely exhausted, she uttered a disdainful "Oh, pshaw! " and
                            flew up into an old cedar-tree.
                        "Mothah! Polly won't play with me any moah," shrieked the child, flying
                            into a rage. She stamped and scowled and grew red in the face. Then she
                            began beating the trunk of the tree with the old broom she had been
                            carrying.
                        "Did you ever see anything so much like the old Colonel?" said Mrs.
                            Tyler, in astonishment. "I wonder if she acted that way this
                            morning."
                        "I don't doubt it at all," answered Mrs. Sherman. " She'll be over it in
                            just a moment. These little spells never last long."
                        Mrs. Sherman was right. In a few moments. Lloyd came up the walk,
                            singing.
                        "I wish you'd tell me a pink story," she said, coaxingly, as she leaned
                            against her mother's knee.
                        "Not now, dear; don't you see that I am busy talking to Aunt Sally? Run
                            and ask Mom Beck for one."
                        
                        "What on earth does she mean by a pink story? " asked Mrs. Tyler.
                        "Oh, she is so fond of colours. She is always asking for a pink or a blue
                            or a white story. She wants everything in the story tinged with whatever
                            colour she chooses,--dresses, parasols, flowers, sky, even the icing on
                            the cakes and the paper on the walls."
                        "What an odd little thing she is!" exclaimed Mrs. Tyler. "Isn't she lots
                            of company for you?"
                        She need not have asked that question if she could have seen them that
                            evening, sitting together in the early twilight.
                        Lloyd was in her mother's lap, leaning her head against her shoulder as
                            they rocked slowly back and forth on the dark porch.
                        There was an occasional rattle of wheels along the road, a twitter of
                            sleepy birds, a distant croaking of frogs.
                        Mom Beck's voice floated in from the kitchen, where she was stepping
                            briskly around.
                        
                            "Oh, the clouds hang heavy, an' it's gwine to rain.
                            "Fa'well, my dyin' friends."
                        
                        she sang.
                        
                        Lloyd put her arms closer around her mother's neck.
                        " Let's talk about Papa Jack," she said. " What you 'pose he's doin' now,
                            'way out West."
                        Elizabeth, feeling like a tired, homesick child herself, held her close,
                            and was comforted as she listened to the sweet little voice talking
                            about the absent father.
                        The moon came up after awhile, and streamed in through the vines of the
                            porch. The hazel eyes slowly closed as Elizabeth began to hum an
                            old-time negro lullaby.
                        "Wondah if she'll run away to-morrow," whispered Mom Beck, as she came
                            out to carry her in the house.
                        "Who'd evah think now, lookin' at her pretty, innocent face, that she
                            could be so naughty? Bless her little soul!"
                        The kind old black face was laid lovingly a moment against the fair, soft
                            cheek of the Little Colonel. Then she lifted her in her strong arms, and
                            carried her gently away to bed.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V.
                        SUMMER lingers long among the Kentucky hills. Each passing day seemed
                            fairer than the last to the Little Colonel, who had never before known
                            anything of country life.
                        Roses climbed up and almost hid the small white cottage. Red birds sang
                            in the woodbine. Squirrels chattered in the beeches. She was
                            out-of-doors all day long.
                        Sometimes she spent hours watching the ants carry away the sugar she
                            sprinkled for them. Sometimes she caught flies for an old spider that
                            had his den under the porch steps.
                        " He is an ogah " (ogre), she explained to Fritz. " He's bewitched me
                            so's I have to kill whole families of flies for him to eat."
                        She was always busy and always happy.
                        Before June was half over it got to be a common occurrence for Walker to
                            ride up to the gate on the Colonel's horse. The excuse was always to
                            have a passing word with Mom  Beck. But
                            before he rode away, the Little Colonel was generally mounted in front
                            of him. It was not long before she felt almost as much at home at Locust
                            as she did at the cottage.
                        The neighbours began to comment on it after awhile. " He will surely make
                            up with Elizabeth at this rate," they said. But at the end of the summer
                            the father and daughter had not even had a passing glimpse of each
                            other.
                        One day, late in September, as the Little Colonel clattered up and down
                            the hall with her grandfather's spur buckled on her tiny foot, she
                            called back over her shoulder: "Papa Jack's comin' home to-morrow."
                        The Colonel paid no attention.
                        "I say," she repeated, " Papa Jack's comin' hme to-morrow."
                        "Well," was the gruff response. "Why couldn't he stay where he was ? I
                            suppose you won't want to come here any more after he gets back."
                        "No, I 'pose not," she answered, so carelessly that he was conscious of a
                            very jealous feeling.
                        "Chilluns always like to stay with their fathahs when they's nice as my
                            Papa Jack is."
                        
                        The old man growled something behind his
                        
                        newspaper that she did not hear. he would have been glad to choke this
                            man sho had come between him and his only child, and he hated him worse
                            than ever when he realized what a large place he held in Lloyd's little
                            heart.
                        She did not go back to Locust the next day, nor for weeks after that.
                        She was up almost as soon as Mom Beck next morning, thoroughly enjoying
                            the bustle of preparation.
                        
                        She had a finger in everything, from polishing the silver to turning the
                            ice-cream freezer.
                        Even Fritz was scrubbed till he came out of his bath with his curls all
                            whtie and shining. He was proud of himself, from his silky bangs to the
                            tip of his tasselled tail.
                        Just before train-time, the Little Colonel stuck his collar full of late
                            pink roses, and stood back to admire the effect. Her mother came to the
                            door, dressed for the evening. She wore an airy-looking dress of the
                            palest, softest blue. There was a white rosebud caught in her dark hair.
                            A bright colour, as fresh as Lloyd's own, tinged her cheeks, and the
                            glad light in her brown eyes made them unusually brilliant.
                        Lloyd jumped up and threw her arms about her. "Oh mothah," she cried,
                            "you an' Fritz is so bu'ful!
                        The engine whistled up the road at the crossing. "Come, we have just time
                            to get to the station," said Mrs. Sherman, holding out her hand. 
                        They went through the gate, down the narrow path that ran beside the
                            dusty road. The train had just stopped in front of the little station
                            when they reached it.
                        
                        A number of gentlemen, coming out from the city to spend Sunday at the
                            hotel, came down the steps.
                        They glanced admiringly from the beautiful, girlish face of the another
                            to the happy child dancing impatiently up and down at her side. They
                            could not help smiling at Fritz as he frisked about in his imposing
                            rose-collar.
                        "Why, where's Papa Jack?" asked Lloyd, in distress, as passenger after
                            passenger stepped down. "Isn't he goin' to come?"
                        The tears were beginning to gather in her eyes, when she saw him in the
                            door of the car; not hurrying along to meet them as he always used to
                            come, so full of life and vigour, but leaning heavily on the porter's
                            shoulder, looking very pale and weak.
                        Lloyd looked up at her mother, from whose face every particle of colour
                            had faded. Mrs. Sherman gave a low, frightened cry as she sprang forward
                            to meet him.
                        "Oh, Jack! what is the matter? What has happened to you ?" she exclaimed,
                            as he took her in his arms. The train had gone on, and they were left
                            alone 6fi the platform.
                        "Just a little sick spell," he answered, with  a smile. "We had a fire out at the mines, and I overtaxed myself
                            some. I've had fever ever since, and it has pulled me down
                            considerably."
                        "I must send somebody for a carriage," she said, looking around
                            anxiously.
                        "No, indeed," he protested. "It's only a few steps; I can walk it as well
                            as not. The sight of you and the baby has made me stronger already."
                        He sent a coloured boy on ahead with his valise, and they walked slowly
                            up the path, with Fritz running wildly around them, barking a glad
                            welcome.
                        "How sweet and homelike it all looks!" he said, as he stepped into the
                            hall, where Mom Beck was just lighting the lamps. Then he sank down on
                            the couch, completely exhausted, and wearily closed his eyes.
                        The Little Colonel looked at his white face in alarm. All the gladness
                            seemed to have been taken out of the home-coming.
                        Her mother was busy trying to make him comfortable, and paid no attention
                            to the disconsolate little figure wandering about the  house alone. Mom Beck had gone for the
                            doctor.
                        The supper was drying up in the warming, oven. The ice-cream was melting
                            in the freezer. Nobody seemed to care. There was no one to notice the
                            pretty table with its array of flowers and cut glass and silver.
                        When Mom Beck came back, Lloyd ate all by herself, and then sat out on
                            the kitchen doorstep while the doctor made his visit.
                        She was just going mournfully off to bed with an aching lump in her
                            throat, when her mother opened the door.
                        "Come tell papa good night," she said. "He's lots better now."
                        She climbed up on the bed beside him, and buried her face on his shoulder
                            to hide the tears she had been trying to keep back all evening.
                        "How the child has grown! " he exclaimed, "Do you notice, Beth, how much
                            plainer she talks? She does not seem at all like the baby I left last
                            spring. Well, she'll soon be six years old,--a real little woman. She'll
                            be papa's little comfort."
                        The ache in her throat was all gone after 
                            that. She romped with Fritz all the time she was undressing.
                        Papa Jack was worse next morning. It was hard for Lloyd to keep quiet
                            when the late September sunshine was so gloriously yellow and the whole
                            outdoors seemed so wide awake.
                        She tiptoed out of the darkened room where her father lay, and swung on
                            the front gate until she saw the doctor riding up on his bay horse. It
                            seemed to her that the day never would pass.
                        Mom Beck, rustling around in her best dress ready for church, that
                            afternoon, took pity on the lonesome child.
                        "Go get yo' best hat, honey," she said, "an' I'll take you with me."
                        It was one of the Little Colonel's greatest pleasures to be allowed to go
                            to the coloured church.
                        She loved to listen to the singing, and would sit perfectly motionless
                            while the sweet voices blended like the chords of some mighty organ as
                            they sent the old hymns rolling heavenward.
                        Service had already commenced by the time they took their seats. Nearly
                            everybody in the congregation was swaying back and forth in  time to the mournful melody of "Sinnah,
                            sinnah, where's you boun'?"
                        One old woman across the aisle began clapping her hands together, and
                            repeated in a sing-song tone, " Oh, Lordy! I'm so happy!"
                        "Why, that's just what our parrot says," exclaimed Lloyd, so much
                            surprised that she spoke right out loud.
                        Mom Beck put her handkerchief over her mouth, and a general smile went
                            around.
                        After that the child was very quiet until the time came to take the
                            collection. She always enjoyed this part of the service more than
                            anything else. Instead of passing baskets around, each person was
                            invited to come forward and lay his offering on the table.
                        Woolly heads wagged, and many feet kept time to the tune:
                        
                            I'se boun' to git to glory.
                            Hallelujah! Le' me go!"
                        
                        The Little Colonel proudly marched up with Mom Beck's contribution, and
                            then watched the others pass down the aisle. One young girl in a
                            gorgeously trimmed dress paraded up to the 
                            table several times, singing at the top of her voice.
                        
                        "Look at that good-fo'-nothin' Lize Richa'ds," whispered Mom Beck's
                            nearest neighbour, with a sniff. "She done got a nickel changed into
                            pennies so she could ma'ch up an' show herself five times."
                        It was nearly sundown when they started home. A tall coloured man,
                            wearing a high silk hat and carrying a gold-headed cane, joined them on
                            the way out.
                        "Howdy, Sistah Po'tah," he said, gravely shaking hands. "That was a fine
                            disco'se we had the pleasuah of listenin' to this evenin'."
                        "'Deed it was, Brothah Fostah," she answered. "How's all up yo' way?"
                        The Little Colonel, running on after a couple of white butterflies, paid
                            no attention  to the conversation until she
                            heard her own name mentioned.
                        "Mistah Sherman came home last night, I heah."
                        "Yes, but not to stay long, I'm afraid. He's a mighty sick man, if I'm
                            any judge. He's down with fevah,--regular typhoid. He doesn't look to me
                            like he's long for this world. What's to become of poah Miss 'Lizabeth
                            if that's the case, is moah'n I know."
                        "We mustn't cross the bridge till we come to it, Sistah Po'tah," he
                            suggested.
                        "I know that; but a lookin'-glass broke yeste'day mawnin' when nobody had
                            put fingah on it. An' his picture fell down off the wall while I was
                            sweepin' the pa'lah. Pete said his dawg done howl all night last night,
                            an' I've dremp three times hand runnin' 'bout muddy watah."
                        Mom Beck felt a little hand clutch her skirts, and turned to see a
                            frightened little face looking anxiously up at her.
                        "Now what's the mattah with you, honey?" she asked. " I'm only a-tellin'
                            Mistah Fostah about some silly old signs my mammy used to believe in.
                            But they don't mean nothin' at all."
                        
                        Lloyd couldn't have told why she was unhappy. She had not understood all
                            that Mom Beck had said, but her sensitive little mind was shadowed by a
                            foreboding of trouble.
                        The shadow deepened as the days passed. Papa Jack got worse instead of
                            better. There were times when he did not recognize any one, and talked
                            wildly of things that had happened out at the mines.
                        All the long, beautiful October went by, and still he lay in the darkened
                            room. Lloyd wandered listlessly from place to place, trying to keep out
                            of the way, and to make as little trouble as possible.
                        " I'm a real little woman now," she repeated, proudly, whenever she was
                            allowed to pound ice or carry fresh water. "I'm papa's little
                            comfort."
                        One cold, frosty evening she was standing in the hall, when the doctor
                            came out of the room and began to put on his overcoat.
                        Her mother followed him to take his directions for the night.
                        He was an old friend of the family's. Elizabeth had climbed on his knees
                            many a time when she was a child. She loved this faithful,  white-haired old doctor almost as dearly
                            as she had her father.
                        "My daughter," he said, kindly, laying his hand on her shoulder, " you
                            are wearing yourself out, and will be down yourself if you are not
                            careful. You must have a professional nurse. No telling how long this is
                            going to last. As soon as Jack is able to travel you must have a change
                            of climate."
                        Her lips trembled. " We can't afford it, doctor," she said. "Jack has
                            been too sick from the very first to talk about business. He always said
                            a woman should not be worried with such matters, anyway. I don't know
                            what arrangements he has made out West. For all I know, the little I
                            have in my purse now may be all that stands between us and the
                            poorhouse."
                        The doctor drew on his gloves.
                        " Why don't you tell your father how matters are? " he asked.
                        Then he saw he had ventured a step too far.
                        "I believe Jack would rather die than take help from his hands," she
                            answered, drawing herself up proudly. Her eyes flashed. "I would, too,
                            as far as I am concerned myself."
                        Then a tender look came over her pale, tired  face, as she added, gently, " But I'd do anything on earth to help
                            Jack get well."
                        The doctor cleared his throat vigorously, and bolted out with a gruff
                            good night. As he rode past Locust, he took solid satisfaction in
                            shaking his fist at the light in an upper window.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI.
                        THE Little Colonel followed her mother to the dining-room, but paused on
                            the threshold as she saw her throw herself into Mom Beck's arms and
                            burst out crying.
                        "Oh, Becky!" she sobbed, "what is going to become of us? The doctor says
                            we must have a professional nurse, and we must go away from here soon.
                            There are only a few dollars left in my purse, and I don't know what
                            we'll do when they are gone. I just know Jack is going to die, and then
                            I'll die, too, and then what will become of the baby?"
                        Mom Beck sat down, and took the trembling form in her arms.
                        "There, there! " she said, soothingly," have yo' cry out. It will do you
                            good. Poah chile! all wo'n out with watchin' an' worry. Ne'm min', ole
                            Becky is as good as a dozen nuhses yet. I'll get Judy to come up an'
                            look aftah  the kitchen. An' nobody ain'
                            gwine to die, honey. Don't you go to slayin' all you's got befo' you's
                            called on to do it. The good Lawd is goin' to pahvide fo' us same as
                            Abraham."
                        The last Sabbath's sermon was still fresh in her mind.
                        "If we only hold out faithful, there's boun' to be a ram caught by the
                            hawns some place, even if we haven't got eyes to see through the
                            thickets. The Lawd will pahvide whethah it's a burnt offerin' or a
                            meal's vittles. He sho'ly will."
                        Lloyd crept away frightened. It seemed such an awful thing to her to see
                            her mother cry.
                        All at once her bright, happy world had changed to such a strange,
                            uncertain place. She felt as if all sorts of terrible things were about
                            to happen.
                        She went into the parlour, and crawled into a dark corner under the
                            piano, feeling that there was no place to go for comfort, since the one
                            who had always kissed away her little troubles was so heart-broken
                            herself.
                        There was a patter of soft feet across the carpet, and Fritz poked his
                            sympathetic nose  into her face. She put
                            her arms around him, and laid her head against his curly back with a
                            desolate sob.
                        It is pitiful to think how much imaginative children suffer through their
                            wrong conception of things.
                        She had seen the little roll of bills in her mother's pocketbook. She had
                            seen how much smaller it grew every time it was taken out to pay for the
                            expensive wines and medicines that had to be bought so often. She had
                            heard her mother tell the doctor that was all that stood between them
                            and the poorhouse.
                        There was no word known to the Little Colonel that brought such thoughts
                            of horror as the word poorhouse.
                        Her most vivid recollection of her life in New York was something that
                            happened a few weeks before they left there. One day in the park she ran
                            away from the maid, who, instead of Mom Beck, had taken charge of her
                            that afternoon.
                        When the angry woman found her, she frightened her almost into a spasm by
                            telling her what always happened to naughty children who ran away.
                        
                        "They take all their pretty clothes off," she said, " and dress them up
                            in old things made of bed-ticking. Then they take'm to the poorhouse,
                            where nobody but beggars live. They don't have anything to eat but
                            cabbage and corn-dodger, and they have to eat that out of tin pans. And
                            they just have a pile of straw to sleep in."
                        On their way home she had pointed out to the frightened child a poor
                            woman who was grubbing in an ash-barrel.
                        " That's the way people get to look who live in poorhouses," she
                            said.
                        It was this memory that was troubling the Little Colonel now.
                        "Oh, Fritz! " she whispered, with the tears running down her cheeks, " I
                            can't beah to think of my pretty mothah goin' there. That woman's eyes
                            were all red, an' her hair was jus' awful. She was so bony an'
                            stahved-lookin'. It would jus' kill poah Papa Jack to lie on straw an'
                            eat out of a tin pan. I know it would! "
                        When Mom Beck opened the door, hunting her, the room was so dark that she
                            would have  gone away if the dog had not
                            come running out from under the piano.
                        "You heah, too, chile? " she asked, in surprise. "I have to go down now
                            an' see if I can get Judy to come help to-morrow. Do you think you can
                            undress yo'self to-night?"
                        "Of co'se," answered the Little Colonel. Mom Beck was in such a hurry to
                            be off that she did not notice the tremble in the voice that answered
                            her.
                        "Well, the can'le is lit in yo' room. So run along now like a nice little
                            lady, an' don't bothah yo' mamma. She got her hands full already."
                        "All right," answered the child. A quarter of an hour later she stood in
                            her little white nightgown with her hand on the door-knob.
                        She opened the door just a crack and peeped in. Her mother laid her
                            finger on her lips, and beckoned silently. In another instant Lloyd was
                            in her lap. She had cried herself quiet in the dark corner under the
                            piano; but there was something more pathetic in her eyes than tears. It
                            was the expression of one who understood and sympathized.
                        
                        "Oh, mothah," she whispered, "we does have such lots of troubles."
                        "Yes, chickabiddy, but I hope they will soon be over now," was the
                            answer, as the anxious face tried to smile bravely for the child's sake.
                            "Papa is sleeping so nicely now he is sure to be better in the
                            morning."
                        That comforted the Little Colonel some, but for days she was haunted by
                            the fear of the poorhouse.
                        Every time her mother paid out any money she looked anxiously to see how
                            much was still left. She wandered about the place, touching the trees
                            and vines with caressing hands, feeling that she might soon have to
                            leave them. She loved them all so dearly,--every stick and stone, and
                            even the stubby old snowball bushes that never bloomed.
                        Her dresses were outgrown and faded, but no one had any time or thought
                            to spend on getting her new ones. A little hole began to come in the toe
                            of each shoe.
                        She was still wearing her summer sunbonnet, although the days were
                            getting frosty.
                        She was a proud little thing. It mortified her for any one to see her
                            looking so shabby.  Still she uttered no
                            word of complaint, for fear of lessening the little amount in the
                            pocketbook that her mother had said stood between them and the
                            poorhouse.
                        She sat with her feet tucked under her when any one called.
                        "I wouldn't mind bein' a little beggah so much myself," she thought, "
                            but I jus' can't have my bu'ful sweet mothah lookin' like that awful
                            red-eyed woman."
                        One day the doctor called Mrs. Sherman out into the hall. "I have just
                            come from you, father's," he said. " He is suffering from a severe
                            attack of rheumatism. He is confined to his room, and is positively
                            starving for corn pany. He told me he would give anything in the world
                            to have his little grandchild with him. There were tears in his eyes
                            when he said it, and that means a good deal from him. He fairly idolizes
                            her. The servants have told him she mopes around and is getting thin and
                            pale. He is afraid she will come down with the fever, too. He told me to
                            use any stratagem I liked to get her there. But I think it's better to
                            tell you frankly how matters stand. It will do the child good to have a
                            change, Elizabeth,  and I solemnly think
                            you ought to let her go, for a week at least."
                        "But, doctor, she has never been away from me a single night in her life.
                            She'd die of homesickness, and I know she'll never consent to leave me.
                            Then suppose Jack should get worse--"
                        "We'll suppose nothing of the kind," he interrupted, brusquely. " Tell
                            Becky to pack up her things. Leave Lloyd to me. I'll get her consent
                            without any trouble."
                        "Come, Colonel," he called, as he left the house. " I'm going to take you
                            a little ride." No one ever knew what the kind old fellow said to her to
                            induce her tc go to her grandfather's.
                        She came back from her ride looking brighter than she had in a long time.
                            She felt that in some way, although in what way she could not
                            understand, her going would help them to escape the dreaded
                            poorhouse.
                        "Don't send Mom Beck with me," she pleaded, when the time came to start.
                            "You come with me, mothah."
                        Mrs. Sherman had not been past the gate for 
                            weeks, but she could not refuse the coaxing hands that clung to
                            hers.
                        It was a dull, dreary day. There was a chilling hint of snow in the damp
                            air. The leaves whirled past them with a mournful rustling. Mrs. Sherman
                            turned up the collar of Lloyd's cloak.
                        "You must have a new one soon," she said, with a sigh. " Maybe one of
                            mine could be made over for you. And those poor little shoes! I must
                            think to send to town for a new pair."
                        The walk was over so soon. The Little Colonel's heart beat fast as they
                            came in sight of the gate. She winked bravely to keep back the tears;
                            for she had promised the doctor not to let her mother see her cry.
                        A week seemed such a long time to look forward to.
                        She clung to her mother's neck, feeling that she could never give her up
                            so long.
                        "Tell me good-bye, baby dear," said Mrs. Sherman, feeling that she could
                            not trust herself to stay much longer. " It is too cold for you to stand
                            here. Run on, and I'll watch you till you get inside the door."
                        
                        The Little Colonel started bravely down the avenue, with Fritz at her
                            heels. Every few
                        
                            
                        
                        steps she turned to look back and kiss her hand.
                        Mrs. Sherman watched her through blur of tears. It had been nearly seven
                            years once she  had last stood at that old
                            gate. Such a crowd of memories came rushing up!
                        She looked again. There was a flutter of a white handkerchief as the
                            Little Colonel and Fritz went up the steps. Then the great front door
                            closed behind them.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VII.
                        THAT early twilight hour just before the lamps were
                            lit was the lonesomest one the Little Colonel had ever spent.
                        Her grandfather was asleep up-stairs. There was a cheery wood fire
                            crackling on the hearth of the big fireplace in the hall, but the great
                            house was so still. The corners were full of shadows.
                        She opened the front door with a wild longing to run away.
                        " Come, Fritz," she said, closing the door softly behind her, "let's go
                            down to the gate." The air was cold. She shivered as they raced along
                            under the bare branches of the locusts. She leaned against the gate,
                            peering out through the bars. The road stretched white through the
                            gathering darkness in the direction of the little cottage.
                        
                        "Oh, I want to go home so bad!" she sobbed. "I want to see my
                            mothah."
                        She laid her hand irresolutely on the latch, pushed the gate ajar, and
                            then hesitated. " No, I promised the doctah I'd stay," she thought. " He
                            said I could help mothah and Papa Jack, both of 'em, by stayin' heah,
                            an' I'll do it."
                        Fritz, who had pushed himself through the partly opened gate to rustle
                            around among the dead leaves outside, came bounding back with something
                            in his mouth.
                        "Heah, suh!" she called. "Give it to me! " He dropped a small gray kid
                            glove in her outstretched hand. " Oh, it's mothah's!" she cried. " I
                            reckon she dropped it when she was tellin' me good-bye. Oh, you deah old
                            dog fo' findin' it."
                        She laid the glove against her cheek as fondly as if it had been her
                            mother's soft hand. There was something wonderfully comforting in the
                            touch.
                        As they walked slowly back toward the house she rolled it up and put it
                            lovingly away in her tiny apron pocket.
                        All that week it was a talisman whose touch 
                            helped the homesick little soul to be brave and womanly.
                        When Maria, the coloured housekeeper, went into the hall to light the
                            lamps, the Little Colonel was sitting on the big fur rug in front of the
                            fire, talking contentedly to Fritz, who lay with his curly head in her
                            lap.
                        "You all's goin' to have tea in the Cun'l's room to-night," said Maria. "
                            He tole me to tote it up soon as he rung the bell."
                        "There it goes now," cried the child, jumping up from the rug.
                        She followed Maria up the wide stairs. The Colonel was sitting in a large
                            easy chair, wrapped in a gaily flowered dressing-gown, that made his
                            hair look unusually white by contrast.
                        His dark eyes were intently watching the door. As it opened to let the
                            Little Colonel pass through, a very tender smile lighted up his stern
                            face.
                        "So you did come to see grandpa after all," he cried, triumphantly. "Come
                            here and give me a kiss. Seems to me you've been staying away a mighty
                            long time."
                        As she stood beside him with his arm around 
                            her, Walker came in with a tray full of dishes.
                        "We're going to have a regular little teaparty," said the Colonel.
                        Lloyd watched with sparkling eyes as Walker set out the rare
                            old-fashioned dishes. There was a fat little silver sugar-bowl with a
                            butterfly perched on each side to form the handles, and there was a
                            slim, graceful cream-pitcher shaped like a lily.
                        "They belonged to your great-great-grandmother," said the Colonel, " and
                            they're going to be yours some day if you grow up and have a house of
                            your own."
                        The expression on her beaming face was worth a fortune to the
                            Colonel.
                        When Walker pushed her chair up to the table, she turned to her
                            grandfather with shining eyes.
                        "Oh, it's just like a pink story," she cried, clapping her hands. "The
                            shades on the can'les, the icin' on the cake, an' the posies in the
                            bowl,--why, even the jelly is that colah, too. Oh, my darlin' little
                            teacup! It's jus' like a pink rosebud! I'm so glad I came!" The Colonel
                            smiled at the success of his plan.  In the
                            depths of his satisfaction he even had a plate oif quail and toast set
                            down on the hearth for Fritz.
                        "This is the nicest pahty I evah was at," remarked the Little Colonel, as
                            Walker helped her to jam the third time.
                        Her grandfather chuckled.
                        "Blackberry jam always makes me think of Tom," he said. "Did you ever
                            hear what your Uncle Tom did when he was a little fellow in
                            dresses?"
                        She shook her head gravely.
                        "Well, the children were all playing hide-and-seek one day. They hunted
                            high and they hunted low after everybody else had been caught, but they
                            couldn't find Tom. At last they began to call, 'Home free! You can come
                            home free!' but he did not come. When he had been hidden so long they
                            were frightened about him, they went to their mother and told her he
                            wasn't to be found anywhere. She looked down the well and behind the
                            fire-boards in the fireplaces. They called and called till they were out
                            of breath. Finally she thought of looking in the big dark pantry where
                            she kept her fruit. There stood Mister Tom. He  had opened a jar of blackberry jam, and was just going for
                            it with both hands. The jam was all over his face and hair and little
                            gingham apron, and even up his wrists. He was the funniest sight I ever
                            saw."
                        The Little Colonel laughed heartily at his description, and begged for
                            more stories. Before he knew it he was back in the past with his little
                            Tom and Elizabeth.
                        Nothing could have entertained the child more than these scenes he
                            recalled of her mother's childhood.
                        "All her old playthings are up in the garret," he said, as they rose from
                            the table. "I'll have them brought down to-morrow. There's a doll I
                            brought her from New Orleans once when she was about your size. No
                            telling what it looks like now, but it was a beauty when it was
                            new."
                        Lloyd clapped her hands and spun around the room like a top.
                        "Oh, I'm so glad I came!" she exclaimed for the third time. " What did
                            she call the doll, gran'fathah, do you remembah?"
                        "I never paid much attention to such things," he answered, "but I do
                            remember the  name of this one, because she
                            named it for her mother,--Amanthis."
                        "Amanthis," repeated the child, dreamily, as she leaned against his knee.
                            "I think that is a lovely name, gran'fathah. I wish they had called me
                            that." She repeated it softly
                        
                        several times. "It sounds like the wind a-blowin' through white clovah,
                            doesn't it?"
                        "It is a beautiful name to me, my child," answered the old man, laying
                            his hand tenderly on her soft hair, "but not so beautiful as the woman
                            who bore it. She was the fairest flower of all Kentucky. There never was
                            another  lived as sweet and gentle as your
                            Grandmother Amanthis."
                        He stroked her hair absently, and gazed into the fire. He scarcely
                            noticed when she slipped away from him.
                        She buried her face a moment in the bowl of pink roses. Then she went to
                            the window and drew back the curtain. Leaning her head against the
                            window-sill, she began stringing on the thread of a tune the things that
                            just then thrilled her with a sense of their beauty.
                        "Oh, the locus'-trees a-blowin'," she sang, softly. " An' the moon
                            a-shinin' through them. An' the starlight an' pink roses; an'
                            Amanthis--an' Amanthis!"
                        She hummed it over and over until Walker had finished carrying the dishes
                            away.
                        It was a strange thing that the Colonel's unfrequent moods of tenderness
                            were like those warm days that they call weather breeders.
                        They were sure to be followed by a change of atmosphere. This time as the
                            fierce rheumatic pain came back he stormed at Walker, and scolded him
                            for everything he did and everything he left undone.
                        When Maria came up to put Lloyd to bed, 
                            Fritz was tearing around the room barking at his shadow.
                        "Put that dog out, M'ria!" roared the Colonel, almost crazy with its
                            antics. "Take it down-stairs, and put it out of the house, I say! Nobody
                            but a heathen would let a dog sleep in the house, anyway."
                        The homesick feeling began to creep over Lloyd again. She had expected to
                            keep Fritz in her room at night for company. But for the touch of the
                            little glove in her pocket, she would have said something ugly to her
                            grandfather when he spoke so harshly.
                        His own ill humour was reflected in her scowl as she followed Maria down
                            the stairs to drive Fritz out into the dark.
                        They stood a moment in the open door, after Maria had slapped him
                            with-her apron to make him go off the porch.
                        "Oh, look at the new moon!" cried Lloyd, pointing to the slender crescent
                            in the autumn sky.
                        "I'se feared to, honey," answered Maria, "less I should see it through
                            the trees. That 'ud bring me bad luck for a month, suah. I'll  go out on the lawn where it's open, an'
                            look at it ovah my right shouldah."
                        While they were walking backward down the path, intent on reaching a
                            place where they could have an uninterrupted view of the moon, Fritz
                            sneaked around to the other end of the porch.
                        No one was watching. He slipped into the house as noiselessly as his four
                            soft feet could carry him.
                        Maria, going through the dark upper hall, with a candle held high above
                            her head and Lloyd clinging to her skirts, did not see a tasselled tail
                            swinging along in front of her. It disappeared under the big bed when
                            she led Lloyd into the room next the old Colonel's.
                        The child felt very sober while she was being put to bed.
                        The furniture was heavy and dark. An ugly portrait of a cross old man in
                            a wig frowned at her from over the mantel. The dancing fire-light made
                            his eyes frightfully lifelike.
                        The bed was so high she had to climb on a chair to get in. She heard
                            Maria's heavy feet go shuffling down the stairs. A door banged.  Then it was so still she could hear the
                            clock tick in the next room.
                        It was the first time in all her life that her mother had not come to
                            kiss her good night.
                        Her lips quivered, and a big tear rolled down on the pillow.
                        She reached out to the chair beside her bed, where her clothes were
                            hanging, and felt in her apron pocket for the little glove. She sat up
                            in bed, and looked at it in the dim firelight. Then she held it against
                            her face. "Oh, I want my mothah! I want my mothah!" she sobbed, in a
                            heartbroken whisper.
                        Laying her head on her knees, she began to cry quietly, but with great
                            sobs that nearly choked her.
                        There was a rustling under the bed. She lifted her wet face in alarm.
                            Then she smiled through her tears, for there was Fritz, her own dear
                            dog, and not an unknown horror waiting to grab her.
                        He stood on his hind legs, eagerly trying to lap away her tears with his
                            friendly red tongue. She clasped him in her arms with an ecstatic hug.
                            "Oh, you're such a comfort! " she whispered. "I can go to sleep
                            now."
                        
                        She spread her apron on the bed, and motioned him to jump. With one
                            spring he was beside her.
                        It was nearly midnight when the door from the Colonel's room was
                            noiselessly opened.
                        The old man stirred the fire gently until it burst into a bright flame.
                            Then he turned to the bed. " You rascal! " he whispered, looking at
                            Fritz, who raised his head quickly with a threatening look in his wicked
                            eyes.
                        Lloyd lay with one hand stretched out, holding the dog's protecting paw.
                            The other held something against her tear-stained cheek.
                        " What under the sun! " he thought, as he drew it gently from her
                            fingers. The little glove lay across his hand, slim and
                            aristocratic-looking. He knew instinctively whose it was. " Poor little
                            thing's been crying," he thought. " She wants Elizabeth. And so do I!
                            And so do I!" his heart cried out with bitter longing. " It's never been
                            like home since she left."
                        He laid the glove back on her pillow, and went to his room.
                        "If Jack Sherman should die," he said to himself many times that night,
                            "'then she would come home again. Oh, little daughter, little daughter!
                            why did you ever leave me? "
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII.
                        THE first thing that greeted the Little Colonel's eyes
                            when she opened them next morning was her mother's old doll. Maria had
                            laid it on the pillow beside her.
                        It was beautifully dressed, although in a queer, old-fashioned style that
                            seemed very strange to the child.
                        She took it up with careful fingers, remembering its great age. Maria had
                            warned her not to waken her grandfather, so she admired it in
                            whispers.
                        "Jus' think, Fritz," she exclaimed, "this doll has seen my Gran'mothah
                            Amanthis, an' it's named for her. My mothah wasn't any bigger'n me when
                            she played with it. I think it is the loveliest doll I evah saw in my
                            whole life."
                        Fritz gave a jealous bark.
                        "Sh!" commanded his little mistress, 
                            "Didn't you heah M'ria say, Fo' de Lawd's sake don't wake up ole Marse?'
                            Why don't you mind?"
                        The Colonel was not in the best of humours after such a wakeful night,
                            but the sight of her happiness made him smile in spite of himself, when
                            she danced into his room with the doll.
                        She had eaten an early breakfast and gone back up-stairs to examine the
                            other toys that were spread out in her room.
                        The door between the two rooms was ajar. All the time he was dressing and
                            taking his coffee he could hear her talking to some one. He supposed it
                            was Maria. But as he glanced over his mail he heard the Little Colonel
                            saying, "May Lilly, do you know about Billy Goat Gruff? Do you want me
                            to tell you that story? "
                        He leaned forward until he could look through the narrow opening of the
                            door. Two heads were all he could see,--Lloyd's, soft-haired and golden,
                            May Lilly's, covered with dozens of tightly braided little black tails.
                            He was about to order May Lilly back to the cabin, when he remembered
                            the scene that  followed the last time he
                            had done so. He concluded to keep quiet and listen. 
                        "Billy Goat Gruff was so fat," the story went on, " jus' as fat as
                            gran'fathah."
                        The Colonel glanced up with an amused smile at the fine figure reflected
                            in an opposite mirror.
                        " Trip-trap, trip-trap, went Billy Goat Gruff's little feet ovah the
                            bridge to the giant's house."
                        Just at this point Walker, who was putting things in order, closed the
                            door between the rooms.
                        "Open that door, you black rascal!" called the Colonel, furious at the
                            interruption. In his haste to obey, Walker knocked over a pitcher of
                            water that had been left on the floor beside the wash-stand.
                        Then the Colonel yelled at him to be quick about mopping it up, so that
                            by the time the door was finally opened, Lloyd was finishing her
                            story.
                        The Colonel looked in just in time to see her put her hands to her
                            temples, with her fore-fingers protruding from her forehead like horns.
                            She said in a deep voice, as she brandished  them at May Lilly, "With my two long speahs I'll poke yo' eyeballs
                            through yo' yeahs."
                        The little darky fell back giggling. "That sut'n'y was like a billy-goat.
                            We had one once that 'ud make a body step around mighty peart. It slip
                            up behine me one mawnin' on the poach, an' fo' awhile I thought my haid
                            was buss open suah. I got up toreckly, though, an' I cotch him, and when
                            I done got through, Mistah Billy-goat feel po'ly moah'n a week. He
                            sut'n'y did."
                         Walker grinned, for he had witnessed the scene.
                        Just then Maria put her head in at the door to say, "May Lilly, yo'
                            mammy's callin' you." Lloyd and Fritz followed her noisily downstairs.
                            Then for nearly an hour it was very quiet in the great house.
                        The Colonel, looking out of the window, could see Lloyd playing
                            hide-and-seek with Fritz under the bare locust-trees. When she came in
                            her cheeks were glowing from her run in the frosty air. Her eyes shone
                            like stars, and her face was radiant.
                        "See what I've found down in the dead 
                            leaves," she cried. "A little blue violet, bloomin' all by itself."
                         She brought a tiny cup from the next room, that belonged to the set of
                            doll dishes, and put the violet in it.
                        "There!" she said, setting it on the table at her grandfather's elbow.
                            "Now I'll put Amanthis in this chair, where you can look at her, an' you
                            won't get lonesome while I'm playing outdoors."
                        He drew her toward him and kissed her.
                        "Why, how cold your hands are! "he exclaimed. "Staying in this warm room
                            all the time makes me forget it is so wintry outdoors. I don't believe
                            you are dressed warmly enough. You ought not to wear sunbonnets this
                            time of year."
                        Then for the first time he noticed her outgrown cloak and shabby
                            shoes.
                        "What are you wearing these old clothes for?" he said, impatiently. "Why
                            didn't they dress you up when you were going visiting? It isn't showing
                            proper respect to send you off in the oldest things you've got."
                        It was a sore point with the Little Colonel. It hurt her pride enough to
                            have to wear old  clothes without being
                            scolded for it. Besides, she felt that in some way her mother was being
                            blamed for what could not be helped.
                        "They's the best I've got," she answered, proudly choking back the tears.
                            "I don't need any new ones, 'cause maybe we'll be goin' away pretty
                            soon."
                        "Going away!" he echoed, blankly. "Where?"
                        She did not answer until he repeated the question. Then she turned her
                            back on him, and started toward the door. The tears she was too proud to
                            let him see were running down her face.
                        "We's goin' to the poah-house," she exclaimed, defiantly, "jus' as soon
                            as the money in the pocketbook is used up. It was nearly gone when I
                            came away."
                        Here she began to sob, as she fumbled at the door she could not see to
                            open.
                        "I'm goin' home to my mothah right now. She loves me if my clothes are
                            old and ugly."
                        "Why, Lloyd," called the Colonel, amazed and distressed by her sudden
                            burst of grief.
                        "Come here to grandpa. Why didn't you tell me so before?"
                        
                        The face, the tone, the outstretched arm, all drew her irresistibly to
                            him. It was a relief to lay her head on his shoulder, and unburden
                            herself of the fear that had haunted her so many days.
                        With her arms around his neck, and the precious little head held close to
                            his heart, the old Colonel was in such a softened mood that he would
                            have promised anything to comfort her.
                        "There, there," he said, soothingly, stroking her hair with a gentle
                            hand, when she had told him all her troubles. " Don't you worry about
                            that, my dear. Nobody is going to eat out of tin pans and sleep on
                            straw. Grandpa just won't let them."
                        She sat up and wiped her eyes on her apron. "But Papa Jack would die
                            befo' he'd take help from you," she wailed. "An' so would mothah. I
                            heard her tell the doctah so."
                        The tender expression on the Colonel's face changed to one like flint,
                            but he kept on stroking her hair.
                        "People sometimes change their minds," he said, grimly. "I wouldn't worry
                            over a little  thing like that if I were
                            you. Don't you want to run down-stairs and tell M'ria to give you a
                            piece of cake? "
                        "Oh, yes," she exclaimed, smiling up at him. "I'll bring you some,
                            too."
                        When the first train went into Louisville that afternoon, Walker was on
                            board with an order in his pocket to one of the largest dry goods
                            establishments in the city. When he came out again that evening, he
                            carried a large box into the Colonel's room.
                        Lloyd's eyes shone as she looked into it. There was an elegant
                            fur-trimmed cloak, a pair of dainty shoes, and a muff that she caught up
                            with a shriek of delight.
                        "What kind of a thing is this?" grumbled the Colonel, as he took out a
                            hat that had been carefully packed in one corner of the box. "I told
                            them to send the most stylish thing they had. It looks like a
                            scarecrow," he continued, as he set it askew on the child's head.
                        She snatched it off to look at it herself. "Oh, it's jus' like Emma
                            Louise Wyfo'd's!" she exclaimed. "You didn't put it on straight. See!
                            This is the way it goes."
                        She climbed up in front of the mirror, and 
                            put it on as she had seen Emma Louise wear hers.
                        
                        "Well, it's a regular Napoleon hat," exclaimed the Colonel, much
                            pleased." So little girls nowadays have taken to wearing soldier's caps,
                            have they? It's right becoming to you with your short hair. Grandpa is
                            real proud of his 'little Colonel.'"
                        She gave him the military salute he had taught her, and then ran to throw
                            her arms around him. "Oh, gran'fathah!" she exclaimed between her
                            kisses, "you'se jus' as good as Santa Claus, every bit."
                        
                        The Colonel's rheumatism was better next day; so much better that toward
                            evening he walked down-stairs into the long drawing-room. The room had
                            not been illuminated in years as it was that night.
                        Every wax taper was lighted in the silver candelabra, and the dim old
                            mirrors multiplied their lights on every side. A great wood fire threw a
                            cheerful glow over the portraits and the frescoed ceiling. All the linen
                            covers had been taken from the furniture.
                        Lloyd, who had never seen this room except with the chairs shrouded and
                            the blinds down, came running in presently. She was bewildered at first
                            by the change. Then she began walking softly around the room, examining
                            everything.
                        In one corner stood a tall, gilded harp that her grandmother had played
                            in her girlhood. The heavy cover had kept it fair and untarnished
                            through all the years it had stood unused. To the child's beauty-loving
                            eyes it seemed the loveliest thing she had ever seen.
                        She stood with her hands clasped behind her as her gaze wandered from its
                            pedals to the  graceful curves of its tall
                            frame. It shone like burnished gold in the soft firelight.
                        "Oh, gran'fathah!" she asked at last in a low, reverent tone, "where did
                            you get it? Did an angel leave it heah fo' you?"
                        He did not answer for a moment. Then he said, huskily, as he looked up at
                            a portrait over the mantel, " Yes, my darling, an angel did leave it
                            here. She always was one. Come here to grandpa."
                        He took her on his knee, and pointed up to the portrait. The same harp
                            was in the picture. Standing beside it, with one hand resting on its
                            shining strings, was a young girl all in white.
                        "That's the way she looked the first time I ever saw her," said the
                            Colonel, dreamily. " A June rose in her hair, and another at her throat;
                            and her soul looked right out through those great, dark eyes--the
                            purest, sweetest soul God ever made! My beautiful Amanthis!"
                        "My bu'ful Amanthis!" repeated the child, in an awed whisper.
                        She sat gazing into the lovely young face for a long time, while the old
                            man seemed lost in dreams.
                        
                        "Gran'fathah," she said at length, patting his cheek to attract his
                            attention, and then nodding toward the portrait, "did she love my mothah
                            like my mothah loves me?"
                        " Certainly, my dear," was the gentle reply.
                        It was the twilight hour, when the homesick feeling always came back
                            strongest to Lloyd.
                        "Then I jus' know that if my bu'ful gran'mothah Amanthis could come down
                            out of that frame, she'd go straight and put her arms around my mothah
                            an' kiss away all her sorry feelin's."
                        The Colonel fidgeted uncomfortably in his chair a moment. Then to his
                            great relief the tea-bell rang.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX.
                        EVERY evening after that during Lloyd's visit the fire
                            burned on the hearth of the long drawing-room. All the wax candles were
                            lighted, and the vases were kept full of flowers, fresh from the
                            conservatory.
                        She loved to steal into the room before her grandfather came down, and
                            carry on imaginary conversations with the old portraits.
                        Tom's handsome, boyish face had the greatest attraction for her. His eyes
                            looked down so smilingly into hers that she felt he surely understood
                            every word she said to him.
                        Once Walker overheard her saying, " Uncle Tom, I'm goin' to tell you a
                            story 'bout Billy Goat Gruff."
                        Peeping into the room, he saw the child looking earnestly up at the
                            picture, with her hands clasped behind her, as she began to repeat her
                            favourite story. " It do beat all," he said to  himself, "how one little chile like that can wake up a
                            whole house. She's the life of the place." The last evening of her
                            visit, as the Colonel was coming down-stairs he heard the faint
                            vibration of a harp-string. It was the first time Lloyd had ever
                            ventured to touch one. He paused on the steps opposite the door, and
                            looked in.
                        " Heah, Fritz," she was saying, "you get up on the sofa, an' be the
                            company, an' I'll sing fo' you."
                        Fritz, on the rug before the fire, opened one sleepy eye and closed it
                            again. She stamped her foot, and repeated her order. He paid no
                            attention. Then she picked him up bodily, and, with much puffing and
                            pulling, lifted him into a chair.
                        He waited until she had gone back to the harp, and then, with one spring,
                            disappeared under the sofa.
                        " N'm min'," she said, in a disgusted tone. " I'll pay you back, mistah."
                            Then she looked up at the portrait. " Uncle Tom," she said, "you be the
                            company, an' I'll play fo' you."
                        Her fingers touched the strings so lightly that there was no discord in
                            the random tones. 
                            
                             Her voice carried the air clear and true,
                            and the faint trembling of the harp-strings interfered with the harmony
                            no more than if a wandering breeze had been tangled in them as it
                            passed.
                        
                            "Sing me the songs that to me were so deah
                            Long, long ago, long ago.
                            Tell me the tales I delighted to heah
                            Long, long ago, long ago."
                        
                        The sweet little voice sang it to the end without missing a word. It was
                            the lullaby her mother oftenest sang to her.
                        The Colonel, who had sat down on the steps to listen, wiped his eyes.
                        " My 'long ago ' is all that I have left tc me," he thought, bitterly, "
                            for to-morrow this little one, who brings back my past with every word
                            and gesture, will leave me, too. Why can't that Jack Sherman die while
                            he's about it, and let me have my own back again? "
                        That question recurred to him many times during the week after Lloyd's
                            departure. He missed her happy voice at every turn. He missed her bright
                            face at the table. The house seemed so big and desolate without her. He
                            ordered all the covers put back on the drawing-room  furniture, and the door locked as before.
                        It was a happy moment for the Little Colonel when she was lifted down
                            from Maggie Boy at the cottage gate.
                        She went dancing into the house, so glad to find herself in her mother's
                            arms that she forgot all about the new cloak and muff that had made her
                            so proud and happy.
                        She found her father propped up among the pillows, his fever all gone,
                            and the old mischievous twinkle in his eyes.
                        He admired her new clothes extravagantly, paying her joking compliments
                            until her face beamed; but when she had danced off to find Mom Beck, he
                            turned to his wife. "Elizabeth," he said, wonderingly, "what do you
                            suppose the old fellow gave her clothes for? I don't like it. I'm no
                            beggar if I have lost lots of money. After all that's passed between us
                            I don't feel like taking anything from his hands, or letting my child do
                            it, either."
                        To his great surprise she laid her head down on his pillow beside his and
                            burst into tears.
                        " Oh, Jack," she sobbed, "I spent the last dollar this morning. I wasn't
                            going to tell you,  but I don't know what
                            is to become of us. He gave Lloyd those things because she was just in
                            rags, and I couldn't afford to get anything new."
                        He looked perplexed. "Why, I brought home so much," he said, in a
                            distressed tone. "I knew I was in for a long siege of sickness, but I
                            was sure there was enough to tide us over that."
                        She raised her head. "You brought money home!" she replied, in surprise.
                            "I hoped you had, and looked through all your things, but there was only
                            a little change in one of your pockets. You must have imagined it when
                            you were delirious."
                        "What!" he cried, sitting bolt upright, and then sinking weakly back
                            among the pillows. "You poor child! You don't mean to tell me you have
                            been skimping along all these weeks on just that check I sent you before
                            starting home."
                        "Yes," she sobbed, her face still buried in the pillow. She had borne the
                            strain of continued anxiety so long that she could not stop her tears,
                            now they had once started.
                        It was with a very thankful heart she 
                            watched him take a pack of letters from the coat she brought to his
                            bedside, and draw out a sealed envelope.
                        " Well, I never once thought of looking among those letters for money,"
                            she exclaimed, as he held it up with a smile.
                        His investments of the summer before had prospered beyond his greatest
                            hopes, he told her." Brother Rob is looking after my interests out West,
                            as well as his own," he explained, " and as his father-in-law is the
                            grand mogul of the place, I have the inside track. Then that firm I went
                            security for in New York is nearly on its feet again, and I'll have back
                            every dollar I ever paid out for them. Nobody ever lost anything by
                            those men in the long run. We'll be on top again by this time next year,
                            little wife; so don't borrow any more trouble on that score."
                        The doctor made his last visit that afternoon. It really seemed as if
                            there would never be any more dark days at the little cottage.
                        " The clouds have all blown away and left us their silver linings," said
                            Mrs. Sherman the day her husband was able to go out-of-doors for the
                            first time. He walked down to the post-office  , and brought back a letter from the West. It had such
                            encouraging reports of his business that he was impatient to get back to
                            it. He wrote a reply early in the afternoon, and insisted on going to
                            mail it himself.
                        "I'll never get my strength back," he protested, " unless I have more
                            exercise."
                        It was a cold, gray November day. A few flakes of snow were falling when
                            he started.
                        "I'll stop and rest at the Tylers'," he called back, "so don't be uneasy
                            if I'm out some time."
                        After he left the post-office the fresh air tempted him to go farther
                            than he had intended. At a long distance from his home his strength
                            seemed suddenly to desert him. The snow began to fall in earnest. Numb
                            with cold, he groped his way back to the house, almost fainting from
                            exhaustion.
                        Lloyd was blowing soap-bubbles when she saw him come in and fall heavily
                            across the couch. The ghastly pallor of his face and his closed eyes
                            frightened her so that she dropped the little clay pipe she was using.
                            As she stooped to pick up the broken pieces, her  mother's cry startled her still more. "Lloyd, run call
                            Becky, quick, quick! Oh, he's dying!"
                        Lloyd gave one more terrified look and ran to the kitchen, screaming for
                            Mom Beck. No one was there.
                        The next instant she was running bareheaded as fast as she could go, up
                            the road to Locust. She was confident of finding help there. The
                            snowflakes clung to her hair and blew against her soft cheeks. All she
                            could see was her mother wringing her hands, and her father's white
                            face. When she burst into the house where the Colonel sat reading by the
                            fire, she was so breathless at first that she could only gasp when she
                            tried to speak.
                        "Come quick!" she cried. "Papa Jack's a-dyin'! Come stop him!"
                        At her first impetuous words the Colonel was on his feet. She caught him
                            by the hand and led him to the door before he fully realized what she
                            wanted. Then he drew back. She was impatient at the slightest delay, and
                            only half answered his questions.
                        "Oh, come, gran'fathah!" she pleaded. "don't wait to talk!" But he held
                            her until  he had learned all the
                            circumstances. He was convinced by what she told him that both Lloyd and
                            her mother were unduly alarmed. When he found that no one had sent for
                            him, but that the child had come of her own accord, he refused to
                            go.
                        He did not believe that the man was dying, and he did not intend to step
                            aside one inch from the position he had taken. For seven years he had
                            kept the vow he made when he swore to be a stranger to his daughter. He
                            would keep it for seventy times seven years if need be.
                        She looked at him perfectly bewildered. She had been so accustomed to his
                            humouring her slightest whims, that it had never occurred to her he
                            would fail to help in a time of such distress.
                        "Why, gran'fathah," she began, her lips trembling piteously. Then her
                            whole expression changed. Her face grew startlingly white, and her eyes
                            seemed so big and black. The Colonel looked at her in surprise. He had
                            never seen a child in such a passion before. "I hate you! I hate you!"
                            she exclaimed, all in a tremble. "You's a cruel, wicked man.  I'll nevah come heah again, nevah! nevah!
                            nevah!"
                        The tears rolled down her cheeks as she banged the door behind her and
                            ran down the avenue, her little heart so full of grief and
                            disappointment that she felt she could not possibly bear it.
                        For more than an hour the Colonel walked up and down the room, unable to
                            shut out the anger and disappointment of that little face. He knew she
                            was too much like himself ever to retract her words. She would never
                            come back. He never knew until that hour how much he loved her, or how
                            much she had come to mean in his life. She was gone hopelessly beyond
                            recall, unless--
                        He unlocked the door of the drawing-room and went in. A faint breath of
                            dried rose-leaves greeted him. He walked over to the empty fireplace and
                            looked up at the sweet face of the portrait a long time. Then he leaned
                            his arm on the mantel and bowed his head on it. "Oh, Amanthis," he
                            groaned, "tell me what to do."
                         Lloyd's own words came oack to him. "She'd go right straight an' put her
                            arms  around my mothah an' kiss away all
                            the sorry feelin's."
                        It was a long time he stood there. The battle between his love and pride
                            was a hard one. At last he raised his head and saw that the short winter
                            day was almost over. Without waiting to order his horse he started off
                            in the falling snow toward the cottage.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X.
                        A GOOD many forebodings crowded into the Colonel's
                            mind as he walked hurriedly on. He wondered how he would be received.
                            What if Jack Sherman had died after all? What if Elizabeth should refuse
                            to see him? A dozen times before he reached the gate he pictured to
                            himself the probable scene of their meeting.
                        He was out of breath and decidedly disturbed in mind when he walked up
                            the path. As he paused on the porch steps, Lloyd came running around the
                            house carrying her parrot on a broom.
                        Her hair was blowing around her rosy face under the Napoleon hat she
                            wore, and she was singing.
                        The last two hours had made a vast change in her feelings. Her father had
                            only fainted from exhaustion.
                        When she came running back from Locust, 
                            she was afraid to go in the house, lest what she dreaded most had
                            happened while she was gone. She opened the door timidly and peeped in.
                            Her father's eyes were open. Then she heard him speak. She ran into the
                            room, and, burying her head in her mother's lap, sobbed out the story of
                            her visit to Locust. 
                        To her great surprise her father began to laugh, and laughed so heartily
                            as she repeated her saucy speech to her grandfather, that it took the
                            worst sting out of her disappointment.
                        All the time the Colonel had been fighting his pride among the memories
                            of the dim old drawing-room, Lloyd had been playing with Fritz and
                            Polly.
                        Now as she came suddenly face to face with her grandfather, she dropped
                            the disgusted bird in the snow, and stood staring at him with startled
                            eyes. If he had fallen out of the sky she could not have been more
                            astonished.
                        "Where is your mother, child?" he asked, trying to speak calmly. With a
                            backward look, as if she could not believe the evidence of her own
                            sight, she led the way into the hall.
                        "Mothah! Mothah!" she called, pushing open the parlour door. "Come heah,
                            quick!"
                        
                        The Colonel, taking the hat from his white head, and dropping it on the
                            floor, took an expectant step forward. There was a slight rustle, and
                            Elizabeth stood in the doorway. For just a moment they looked into each
                            other's faces. Then the Colonel held out his arm.
                        "Little daughter," he said, in a tremulous voice. The love of a lifetime
                            seemed to tremble in those two words.
                        In an instant her arms were around his neck, and he was "kissing away the
                            sorry feelin's" as tenderly as the lost Amanthis could have done.
                        As soon as Lloyd began to realize what was happening, her face grew
                            radiant. She danced around in such excitement that Fritz barked
                            wildly.
                        "Come an' see Papa Jack, too," she cried, leading him into the next
                            room.
                        Whatever deep-rooted prejudices Jack Sherman may have had, they were
                            unselfishly put aside after one look into his wife's happy face.
                        He raised himself on his elbow as the dignified old soldier crossed the
                            room. The white hair, the empty sleeve, the remembrance of all the old
                            man had lost, and the thought that  after
                            all he was Elizabeth's father, sent a very tender feeling through the
                            younger man's heart.
                        "Will you take my hand, sir?" he asked, sitting up and offering it in his
                            straightforward way.
                        "Of co'se he will!" exclaimed Lloyd, who still clung to her grandfather's
                            arm. "Of co'se he will!"
                        "I have been too near death to harbour ill will any longer," said the
                            younger man, as their hands met in a strong, forgiving clasp.
                        The old Colonel smiled grimly.
                        "I had thought that even death itself could not make me give in," he
                            said, "but I've had to make a complete surrender to the Little
                            Colonel."
                        That Christmas there was such a celebration at Locust that May Lilly and
                            Henry Clay nearly went wild in the general excitement of the
                            preparation. Walker hung up cedar and holly and mistletoe till the big
                            house looked like a bower. Maria bustled about, airing rooms and
                            bringing out stores of linen and silver.
                        
                        The Colonel himself filled the great punch-bowl that his grandfather had
                            brought from Virginia.
                        " I'm glad we're goin' to stay heah to-night," said Lloyd, as she hung up
                            her stocking Christmas Eve. "It will be so much easiah fo' Santa Claus
                            to get down these big chimneys."
                        In the morning when she found four tiny stockings hanging beside her own,
                            overflowing with candy for Fritz, her happiness was complete.
                        That night there was a tree in the drawing-room that reached to the
                            frescoed ceiling. When May Lilly came in to admire it and get her share
                            from its loaded branches, Lloyd came skipping up to her. "Oh, I'm goin'
                            to live heah all wintah," she cried. "Mom Beck's goin' to stay heah with
                            me, too, while mothah an' Papa Jack go down South where the alligatahs
                            live. Then when they get well an' come back, Papa Jack is goin' to build
                            a house on the othah side of the lawn. I'm to live in both places at
                            once; mothah said so."
                        There were music and light, laughing voices and happy hearts in the old
                            home that night. It seemed as if the old place had awakened  from a long dream and found itself young
                            again.
                        The plan the Little Colonel unfolded to May Lilly was carried out in
                            every detail. It seemed a long winter to the child, but it was a happy
                            one. There were not so many displays of tern, per now that she was
                            growing older, but the letters that went southward every week were full
                            of her odd speeches and mischievous pranks. The old Colonel found it
                            hard to refuse her anything. If it had not been for Mom Beck's decided
                            ways, the child would have been sadly spoiled.
                        At last the spring came again. The pewees sang in the cedars. The
                            dandelions sprinkled the roadsides like stars. The locust-trees tossed
                            up the white spray of their fragrant blossoms with every wave of their
                            green boughs.
                        "They'll soon be heah! They'll soon be heah!" chanted the Little Colonel
                            every day. The morning they came she had been down the avenue a dozen
                            times to look for them before the carriage had even started to meet
                            them.
                        
                        "Walkah," she called, "cut me a big locus' bough. I want to wave it fo' a
                            flag!"
                        Just as he dropped a branch down at her feet, she caught the sound of
                            wheels. "Hurry, gran'fathah," she called; " they's comin'." But the old
                            Colonel had already started on toward the gate to meet them. The
                            carriage stopped, and in a moment more Papa Jack was tossing Lloyd up in
                            his arms, while the old Colonel was helping Elizabeth to alight.
                        "Isn't this a happy mawnin'?" exclaimed the Little Colonel, as she leaned
                            from her seat on her father's shoulder to kiss his sunburned cheek.
                        "A very happy morning," echoed her grandfather, as he walked on toward
                            the house with Elizabeth's hand clasped close in his own. Long after
                            they had passed up the steps the old locusts kept echoing the Little
                            Colonel's words. Years ago they had showered their fragrant blossoms in
                            this same path to make a sweet white way for Amanthis's little feet to
                            tread when the Colonel brought home his bride.
                        They had dropped their tribute on the coffin-lid when Tom was carried
                            home under their  drooping branches. The
                            soldier-boy had loved them so, that a little cluster had been laid on
                            the breast of the gray coat he wore.
                        Night and day they had guarded this old home like silent sentinels that
                            loved it well.
                        Now, as they looked down on the united family, a thrill passed through
                            them to their remotest bloom-tipped branches.
                        It sounded only like a faint rustling of leaves, but it was the locusts
                            whispering together. " The children have come home at last," they kept
                            repeating. " What a happy morning Oh, what a happy morning!"
                    
                    
                        THE END.
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        THE GIANT SCISSORS
                    
                    
                    
                    
                        CONTENTS
                        
                            CHAPTERPAGE
                            
                                I. IN THE PEAR-TREE
                                11
                                
                            
                            
                                II. A NEW FAIRY TALE
                                26
                                
                            
                            
                                III. BEHIND THE GREAT GATE
                                47
                                
                            
                            
                                IV. A LETTER AND A MEETING
                                65
                                
                            
                            
                                V. A THANKSGIVING BARBECUE
                                80
                                
                            
                            
                                VI. JOYCE PLAYS GHOST
                                100
                                
                            
                            
                                VII. OLD "NUMBER THIRTY-ONE"
                                120
                                
                            
                            
                                VIII. CHRISTMAS PLANS AND AN ACCIDENT
                                139
                                
                            
                            
                                IX. A GREAT DISCOVERY
                                155
                                
                            
                            
                                X. CHRISTMAS
                                174
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        JULES.
                    
                    
                    
                        THE GATE OF THE GIANT SCISSORS.
                        CHAPTER I.
                        IN THE PEAR-TREE.
                        JOYCE was crying, up in old Monsieur Grville's
                            tallest pear-tree. She had gone down to the farthest corner of the
                            garden, out of sight of the house, for she did not want any one to know
                            that she was miserable enough to cry.
                        She was tired of the garden with the high stone wall around it, that made
                            her feel like a prisoner; she was tired of French verbs and foreign
                            faces; she was tired of France, and so homesick for her mother and Jack
                            and Holland and the baby, that she couldn't help crying.
                        
                        No wonder, for she was only twelve years old, and she had never been out
                            of the little Western village where she was born, until the day she
                            started abroad with her Cousin Kate.
                        Now she sat perched up on a limb in a dismal bunch, her chin in her hands
                            and her elbows on her knees. It was a gray afternoon in November; the
                            air was frosty, although the laurel-bushes in the garden were all in
                            bloom.
                        "I s'pect there is snow on the ground at home," thought Joyce, "and
                            there's a big, cheerful fire in the sitting-room grate.
                        "Holland and the baby are shelling corn, and Mary is popping it. Dear me!
                            I can smell it just as plain! Jack will be coming in from the
                            post-office pretty soon, and maybe he'll have one of my letters. Mother
                            will read it out loud, and there they'll all be, thinking that I am
                            having such a fine time; that it is such a grand thing for me to be
                            abroad studying, and having dinner served at night in so many courses,
                            and all that sort of thing. They don't know that I am sitting up here in
                            this pear-tree, lonesome enough to die. Oh, if I could only go back home
                            and see them for even five minutes," she sobbed, "but I can't!  I can't! There's a whole wide ocean
                            between us!"
                        She shut her eyes, and leaned back against the tree as that desolate
                            feeling of homesickness settled over her like a great miserable ache.
                            Then she found that shutting her eyes, and thinking very hard about the
                            little brown house at home, seemed to bring it into plain sight. It was
                            like opening a book, and seeing picture after picture as she turned the
                            pages.
                        There they were in the kitchen, washing dishes, she and Mary; and Mary
                            was standing on a soap-box to make her tall enough to handle the dishes
                            easily. How her funny little braid of yellow hair bobbed up and down as
                            she worked, and how her dear little freckled face beamed, as they told
                            stories to each other to make the work seem easier.
                        Mary's stories all began the same way: "If I had a witch with a wand,
                            this is what we would do." The witch with a wand had come to Joyce in
                            the shape of Cousin Kate Ware, and that coming was one of the pictures
                            that Joyce could see now, as she thought about it with her eyes
                            closed.
                        There was Holland swinging on the gate, 
                            waiting for her to come home from school, and trying to tell her by
                            excited gestures, long before she was within speaking distance, that
                            some one was in the parlor. The baby had on his best plaid kilt and new
                            tie, and the tired little mother was sitting talking in the parlor. an
                            unusual thing for her. Joyce could see herself going up the path,
                            swinging her sun-bonnet by the strings and taking hurried little bites
                            of a big June apple in order to finish it before going into the house.
                            Now she was sitting on the sofa beside Cousin Kate, feeling very awkward
                            and shy with her little brown fingers clasped in this stranger's soft
                            white hand. She had heard that Cousin Kate was a very rich old maid, who
                            had spent years abroad, studying music and languages, and she had
                            expected to see a stout, homely woman with bushy eyebrows, like Miss
                            Teckla Schaum, who played the church organ, and taught German in the
                            High School.
                        But Cousin Kate was altogether unlike Miss Teckla. She was tall and
                            slender, she was young-looking and pretty, and there was a stylish air
                            about her, from the waves of her soft golden brown hair to the bottom of
                            her  tailor-made gown, that was not often
                            seen in this little Western village.
                        Joyce saw herself glancing admiringly at Cousin Kate, and then pulling
                            down her dress as far as possible, painfully conscious that her shoes
                            were untied, and white with dust. The next picture was several days
                            later. She and Jack were playing mumble-peg outside under the window by
                            the lilac-bushes, and the little mother was just inside the door,
                            bending over a pile of photographs that Cousin Kate had dropped in her
                            lap. Cousin Kate was saying, "This beautiful old French villa is where I
                            expect to spend the winter, Aunt Emily. These are views of Tours, the
                            town that lies across the river Loire from it, and these are some of the
                            chateaux near by that I intend to visit. They say the purest French in
                            the world is spoken there. I have prevailed on one of the dearest old
                            ladies that ever lived to give me rooms with her. She and her husband
                            live all alone in this big country place, so I shall have to provide
                            against loneliness by taking my company with me. Will you let me have
                            Joyce for a year?"
                        Jack and she stopped playing in sheer astonishment,  while Cousin Kate went on to explain how many advantages
                            she could give the little girl to whom she had taken such a strong
                            fancy.
                        Looking through the lilac-bushes, Joyce could see her mother wipe her
                            eyes and say, "It seems like pure providence, Kate, and I can t stand in
                            the child's way. She'll have to support herself soon, and ought to be
                            prepared for it; but she's the oldest of the five, you know, and she has
                            been like my right hand ever since her father died. There'll not be a
                            minute while she is gone, that I shall not miss her and wish her back.
                            She's the life and sunshine of the whole home."
                        Then Joyce could see the little brown house turned all topsy-turvy in the
                            whirl of preparation that followed, and the next thing, she was standing
                            on the platform at the station, with her new steamer trunk beside her.
                            Half the town was there to bid her good-by. In the excitement of finding
                            herself a person of such importance she forgot how much she was leaving
                            behind her, until looking up, she saw a tender, wistful smile on her
                            mother's face, sadder than any tears.
                        Luckily the locomotive whistled just then, 
                            
                                WHERE JOYCE LIVED.
                            
                            
                             and the novelty of getting aboard a train
                            for the first time, helped her to be brave at the parting. She stood on
                            the rear platform of the last car, waving her handkerchief to the group
                            at the station as long as it was in sight, so that the last glimpse her
                            mother should have of her, was with her bright little face all
                            ashine.
                        All these pictures passed so rapidly through Joyce's mind, that she had
                            retraced the experiences of the last three months in as many minutes.
                            Then, somehow, she felt better. The tears had washed away the ache in
                            her throat. She wiped her eyes and climbed liked a squirrel to the
                            highest limb that could bear her weight.
                        This was not the first time that the old pear-tree had been shaken by
                            Joyce's grief, and it knew that her spells of homesickness always ended
                            in this way. There she sat, swinging her plump legs back and forth, her
                            long light hair blowing over the shoulders of her blue jacket, and her
                            saucy little mouth puckered into a soft whistle. She could see over the
                            high wall now. The sun was going down behind the tall Lombardy poplars
                            that lined the road, and in a distant field two peasants still at work
                            reminded  her of the picture of "The
                            Angelus." They seemed like acquaintances on account of the resemblance,
                            for there was a copy of the picture in her little bedroom at home. 
                        All around her stretched quiet fields, sloping down to the ancient
                            village of St. Symphorien and the river Loire. Just across the river, so
                            near that she could hear the ringing of the cathedral bell, lay the
                            famous old town of Tours. There was something in these country sights
                            and sounds that soothed her with their homely cheerfulness. The crowing
                            of a rooster and the barking of a dog fell on her ear like familiar
                            music.
                        "It's a comfort to hear something speak English," she sighed, "even if
                            it's nothing but a chicken. I do wish that Cousin Kate wouldn't be so
                            particular about my using French all day long. The one little half-hour
                            at bedtime when she allows me to speak English isn't a drop in the
                            bucket. It's a mercy that I had studied French some before I came, or I
                            would have a lonesome time. I wouldn't be able to ever talk at all."
                        It was getting cold up in the pear-tree. Joyce shivered and stepped down
                            to the limb  below, but paused in her
                            descent to watch a peddler going down the road with a pack on his
                            back.
                        "Oh, he is stopping  at the gate with the big scissors!" she
                            cried, so interested that she spoke aloud. "I must wait to see if it
                            opens."
                        There was something mysterious. about that gate across the road. Like
                            Monsieur Grville's, it was plain and solid, reaching as high as the
                            wall. Only the lime-trees and the second story windows of the house
                            could be seen above it. On the top it bore an iron medallion, on which
                            was fattened a huge pair of scissors. There was a smaller pair on each
                            gable of the house, also.
                        During the three months that Joyce had  been
                            in Monsieur Grville's home, she had watched every day to see it open;
                            but if any one ever entered or left the place, it was certainly by some
                            other way than this queer gate.
                         What lay beyond it, no one could tell. She had questioned Gabriel the
                            coachman, and Berthe the maid, in vain. Madame Grville said that she
                            remembered having heard, when a child, that the man who built it was
                            named Ciseaux, and that was why the symbol of this
                            name was hung over the gate and on the gables. He had been regarded as
                            half crazy by his neighbors. The place was still owned by a descendant
                            of his, who had gone to Algiers, and left it in charge of two
                            servants.
                        The peddler rang the bell of the gate several times, but failing to
                            arouse any one, shouldered his pack and went off grumbling. Then Joyce
                            climbed down and walked slowly up the gravelled path to the house.
                            Cousin Kate had just come back from Tours in the pony cart, and was
                            waiting in the door to see if Gabriel had all the bundles that she had
                            brought out with her.
                        Joyce followed her admiringly into the house. She wished that she could
                            grow up to look  exactly like Cousin Kate,
                            and wondered if she would ever wear such stylish silk-lined skirts, and
                            catch them up in such an airy, graceful way when she ran up-stairs; and
                            if she would ever have a Paris hat with long black feathers, and always
                            wear a bunch of sweet violets on her coat.
                         She looked at herself in Cousin Kate's mirror as she passed it, and
                            sighed. "Well, I am better-looking than when I left home," she thought.
                            "That's one comfort. My face isn't freckled now, and my hair is more
                            becoming this way than in tight little pigtails, the way I used to wear
                            it."
                        Cousin Kate, coming up behind her, looked over her head and smiled at the
                            attractive reflection of Joyce's rosy cheeks and straightforward gray
                            eyes. Then she stopped suddenly and put her arms around her, saying,
                            "What's the matter, dear? Yoa have been crying."
                         "Nothing," answered Joyce, but there was a quaver in her voice, and she
                            turned her head aside. Cousin Kate put her hand under the resolute
                            little chin, and tilted it until she could look into the eyes that
                            dropped under her gaze. "You have been crying," she said again, this  time in English, "crying because you are
                            home. sick. I wonder if it would not be a good occupation for you to
                            open all the bundles that I got this afternoon. There is a saucepan in
                            one, and a big spoon in the other, and all sorts of good things in the
                            others, so that we can make some molasses candy here in my room, over
                            the open fire. While it cooks you can curl up in the big armchair and
                            listen to a fairy tale in the firelight. Would you like that, little
                            one?"
                        "Oh, yes!" cried Joyce, ecstatically. "That's what they are doing at home
                            this minute, I am sure. We always make candy every afternoon in the
                            winter time."
                        Presently the saucepan was sitting on the coals, and Joyce's little pug
                            nose was rapturously sniffing the odor of bubbling molasses. "I know
                            what I'd like the story to be about," she said, as she stirred the
                            delicious mixture with the new spoon. "Make up something about the big
                            gate across the road, with the scissors on it."
                        Cousin Kate crossed the room, and sat down by the window, where she could
                            look out and see the top of it.
                        "Let me think for a few minutes," she said. 
                            "I have been very much interested in that old gate myself."
                        She thought so long that the candy was done before she was ready to tell
                            the story; but while it cooled in plates outside on the window-sill, she
                            drew Joyce to a seat beside her in the chimney-corner. With her feet on
                            the fender, and the child's head on her shoulder, she began this story,
                            and the firelight dancing on the walls, showed a smile on Joyce's
                            contented little face.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        
                            A NEW FAIRY TALE.
                        
                        ONCE upon a time, on a far island of the sea, there
                            lived a King with seven sons. The three eldest were tall and dark, with
                            eyes like eagles, and hair like a crow's wing for blackness, and no
                            princes in all the land were so strong and fearless as they. The three
                            youngest sons were tall and fair, with eyes as blue as cornflowers, and
                            locks like the summer sun for brightness, and no princes in all the land
                            were so brave and beautiful as they.
                        But the middle son was little and lorn; he was neither dark nor fair; he
                            was neither handsome nor strong. So when the King saw that he never won
                            in the tournaments nor led in the boar hunts, nor sang to his lute among
                            the ladies of the court, he drew his royal robes around him, and
                            henceforth frowned on Ethelried.
                        
                        To each of his other sons he gave a portion of his kingdom, armor and
                            plumes, a prancing charger, and a trusty sword; but to Ethelried he gave
                            nothing. When  the poor Prince saw his brothers riding out into
                            the world to win their fortunes, he fain would have followed. Throwing
                            himself on his knees before the King, he cried, "Oh, royal Sire, bestow
                            upon me also a sword and a steed, that I may up and away to follow my
                            brethren."
                        But the King laughed him to scorn.
                        "Thou a sword!" he quoth. "Thou who hast never done a deed of valor in
                            all thy life! In sooth thou shalt have one, but it shall be one
                            befitting thy maiden size and courage, if so small a weapon can be found
                            in all my kingdom "
                        
                        Now just at that moment it happened that the Court Tailor came into the
                            room to measure the King for a new mantle of ermine. Forthwith the
                            grinning Jester began shrieking with laughter, so that the bells upon
                            his motley cap were all set a-jangling.
                        "What now, Fool ?" demanded the King.
                        "I did but laugh to think the sword of Ethelried had been so quickly
                            found," responded the Jester, and he pointed to the scissors hanging
                            from the Tailor's girdle.
                        "By my troth," exclaimed the King, "it shall be even as thou sayest!" and
                            he commanded that the scissors be taken from the Tailor, and buckled to
                            the belt of Ethelried.
                        " Not until thou hast proved thyself a prince with these, shalt thou come
                            into thy kingdom," he swore with a mighty oath. " Until that far day,
                            now get thee gone!"
                        So Ethelried left the palace, and wandered away over mountain and moor
                            with a heavy heart. No one knew that he was a prince; no fireside
                            offered him welcome; no lips gave him a friendly greeting. The scissors
                            hung useless and rusting by his side.
                        One night as he lay in a deep forest, too 
                            unhappy to sleep, he heard a noise near at hand in the bushes. By the
                            light of the moon he saw that a ferocious wild beast had been caught in
                            a hunter's snare, and was struggling to free itself from the heavy net.
                            His first thought was to slay the animal, for he had had no meat for
                            many days. Then he bethought himself that he had no weapon large
                            enough.
                        While he stood gazing at the struggling beast, it turned to him with such
                            a beseeching look in its wild eyes, that he was moved to pity. "Thou
                            shalt have thy liberty," he cried, "even though thou shouldst rend me in
                            pieces the moment thou art free. Better dead than this craven life to
                            which my father hath doomed me!"
                        So he set to work with the little scissors to cut the great ropes of the
                            net in twain. At first each strand seemed as hard as steel, and the
                            blades of the scissors were so rusty and dull that he could scarcely
                            move them. Great beads of sweat stood out on his brow as he bent himself
                            to the task.
                        Presently, as he worked, the blades began to grow sharper and sharper,
                            and brighter and  brighter, and longer and
                            longer. By the time that the last rope was cut the scissors were as
                            sharp as a broadsword, and half as long as his body.
                        At last he raised the net to let the beast go free. Then he sank on his
                            knees in astonish. ment. It had suddenly disappeared, and in its place
                            stood a beautiful Fairy with filmy wings, which shone like rainbows in
                            the moonlight. "Prince Ethelried," she said in a voice that was like a
                            crystal bell's for sweetness, "dost thou not know that thou art in the
                            domain of a frightful Ogre? It was he who changed me into the form of a
                            wild beast, and set the snare to capture me. But for thy fearlessness
                            and faithful perseverance in the task which thou didst in pity
                            undertake, I must have perished at dawn."
                        At this moment there was a distant rumbling as of thunder. "'Tis the
                            Ogre!" cried the Fairy. "We must hasten." Seizing the scissors that lay
                            on the ground where Ethelried had dropped them, she opened and shut them
                            several times, exclaiming:
                        
                            
                                "Scissors, grow a giant's height
                                And save us from the Ogre's might!"
                            
                        
                        
                        Immediately they grew to an enormous size, and, with blades extended,
                            shot through the tangled thicket ahead of them, cutting down everything
                            that stood in their way,--bushes, stumps, trees, vines; nothing could
                            stand before the fierce onslaught of those mighty blades.
                        The Fairy darted down the path thus opened up, and Ethelried followed as
                            fast as he could, for the horrible roaring was rapidly coming nearer. At
                            last they reached a wide chasm that bounded the Ogre's domain. Once
                            across that, they would be out of his power, but it seemed impossible to
                            cross. Again the Fairy touched the scissors, saying:
                        
                            
                                "Giant scissors, bridge the path,
                                And save us from the Ogre's wrath."
                            
                        
                        Again the scissors grew longer and longer, until they lay across the
                            chasm like a shining bridge. Ethelried hurried across after the Fairy,
                            trembling and dizzy, for the Ogre was now almost upon them. As soon as
                            they were safe on the other side, the Fairy blew upon the scissors, and,
                            presto, they became shorter and shorter until they were only the length
                            of an ordinary sword.
                        
                        "Here," she said, giving them into his hands; " because thou wast
                            persevering and fearless in setting me free, these shall win for thee
                            thy heart's desire. But remember that thou canst not keep them sharp and
                            shining, unless they are used at least once each day in some unselfish
                            service."
                        Before he could thank her she had vanished, and he was left in the forest
                            alone. He could see the Ogre standing powerless to hurt him, on the
                            other side of the chasm, and gnashing his teeth, each one of which was
                            as big as a millstone.
                        The sight was so terrible, that he turned on his heel, and fled away as
                            fast as his feet could carry him. By the time he reached the edge of the
                            forest he was very tired, and ready to faint from hunger. His heart's
                            greatest desire being for food, he wondered if the scissors could obtain
                            it for him as the Fairy had promised. He had spent his last coin and
                            knew not where to go for another.
                         Just then he spied a tree, hanging full of great, yellow apples. By
                            standing on tiptoe he could barely reach the lowest one with his
                            scissors. He cut off an apple, and was about  to take a bite, when an old Witch sprang out of a hollow tree across
                            the road.
                        "So you are the thief who has been stealing my gold apples all this last
                            fortnight!" she exclaimed. "Well, you shall never steal again, that I
                            promise you. Ho, Frog-eye Fearsome, seize on him and drag him into your
                            darkest dungeon!"
                        At that, a hideous-looking fellow, with eyes like a frog's, green hair,
                            and horrid clammy webbed fingers, clutched him before he could turn to
                            defend himself. He was thrust into the dungeon and left there all
                            day.
                        At sunset, Frog-eye Fearsome opened the door to slide in a crust and a
                            cup of water, saying in a croaking voice, "You shall be hanged in the
                            morning, hanged by the neck until you are quite dead." Then he stopped
                            to run his webbed fingers through his damp green hair, and grin at the
                            poor captive Prince, as if he enjoyed his suffering. But the next
                            morning no one came to take him to the gallows, and he sat all day in
                            total darkness. At sunset Frog-eye Fearsome opened the door again to
                            thrust in another crust and some water and say, "In the morning you
                            shall be drowned;  drowned in the Witch's
                            mill-pond with a great stone tied to your heels."
                        Again the croaking creature stood and gloated over his victim, then left
                            him to the silence of another long day in the dungeon. The third day he
                            opened the door and hopped in, rubbing his webbed hands together with
                            fiendish pleasure, saying, "You are to have no food and drink to-night,
                            for the Witch has thought of a far more horrible punishment for you. In
                            the morning I shall surely come again, and then--beware!"
                        Now as he stopped to grin once more at the poor Prince, a Fly darted in,
                            and, blinded by the darkness of the dungeon, flew straight into a
                            spider's web, above the head of Ethelried. "Poor creature!" thought
                            Ethelried. "Thou shalt not be left a prisoner in this dismal spot while
                            I have the power to help thee." He lifted the scissors and with one
                            stroke destroyed the web, and gave the Fly its freedom.
                         As soon as the dungeon had ceased to echo with the noise that Frog-eye
                            Fearsome made in banging shut the heavy door, Ethelried heard a low
                            buzzing near his ear. It was the Fly, which had alighted on his
                            shoulder.
                        
                        "Let an insect in its gratitude teach you this," buzzed the Fly.
                            "To-morrow, if you remain here, you must certainly meet your doom, for
                            the Witch never keeps a prisoner past the third night. But escape is
                            possible. Your prison door is of iron, but the shutter which bars the
                            window is only of wood. Cut your way out at midnight, and I will have a
                            friend in waiting to guide you to a place of safety. A faint glimmer of
                            light on the opposite wall shows me the keyhole. I shall make my escape
                            thereat and go to repay thy unselfish service to me. But know that the
                            scissors move only when bidden in rhyme. Farewell."
                        The Prince spent all the following time until midnight, trying to think
                            of a suitable verse to say to the scissors. The art of rhyming had been
                            neglected in his early education, and it was not until the first
                            cock-crowing began that he succeeded in making this one:
                        
                            
                                "Giant scissors, serve me well,
                                And save me from the Witch's spell!"
                            
                        
                        As he uttered the words the scissors leaped out of his hand, and began to
                            cut through the  wooden shutters as easily
                            as through a cheese. In a very short time the Prince had crawled through
                            the opening. There he stood, outside the dungeon, but it was a dark
                            night and he knew not which way to turn.
                        He could hear Frog-eye Fearsome snoring like a tempest up in the
                            watch-tower, and the old Witch was talking in her sleep in seven
                            languages. While he stood looking around him in bewilderment, a Firefly
                            alighted on his arm. Flashing its little lantern in the Prince's face,
                            it cried, "This way! My friend, the Fly, sent me to guide you to a place
                            of safety. Follow me and trust entirely to my guidance."
                        The Prince flung his mantle over his shoulder, and followed on with all
                            possible speed. They stopped first in the Witch's orchard, and the
                            Firefly held its lantern up while the Prince filled his pockets with the
                            fruit. The apples were gold with emerald leaves, and the cherries were
                            rubies, and the grapes were great bunches of amethyst. When the Prince
                            had filled his pockets he had enough wealth to provide for all his wants
                            for at least a twelvemonth.
                        The Firefly led him on until they came to a 
                            town where was a fine inn. There he left him, and flew off to report the
                            Prince's safety to the Fly and receive the promised reward.
                        Here Ethelried stayed for many weeks, living like a king on the money
                            that the fruit jewels brought him. All this time the scissors were
                            becoming little and rusty, because he never once used them, as the Fairy
                            bade him, in unselfish service for others. But one day he bethought
                            himself of her command, and started out to seek some opportunity to help
                            somebody.
                         Soon he came to a tiny hut where a sick man lay moaning, while his wife
                            and children wept beside him. "What is to become of me?" cried the poor
                            peasant. "My grain must fall and rot in the field from overripeness
                            because I have not the strength to rise and harvest it; then indeed must
                            we all starve."
                         Ethelried heard him, and that night, when the moon rose, he stole into
                            the field to cut it down with the giant scissors. They were so rusty
                            from long idleness that he could scarcely move them. He tried to think
                            of some rhyme with which to command them; but it had been so long since
                            he had done any thinking, except for  his
                            own selfish pleasure, that his brain refused to work.
                        However, he toiled on all night, slowly cutting down the grain stalk by
                            stalk. Towards morning the scissors became brighter and sharper, until
                            they finally began to open and shut ot their own accord. The whole field
                            was cut by sunrise. Now the peasant's wife had risen very early to go
                            down to the spring and dip up some cool water for her husband to drink.
                            She came upon Ethelried as he was cutting the last row of the grain, and
                            fell on her knees to thank him. From that day the peasant and all his
                            family were firm friends of Ethelried's, and would have gone through
                            fire and water to serve him.
                         After that he had many adventures, and he was very busy, for he never
                            again forgot what the Fairy had said, that only unselfish service each
                            day could keep the scissors sharp and shining. When the shepherd lost a
                            little lamb one day on the mountain, it was Ethelried who found it
                            caught by the fleece in a tangle of cruel thorns. When he had cut it
                            loose and carried it home, the shepherd also became his firm friend, and
                            would have gone through fire and water to serve him.
                        
                        The grandame whom ne supplied with fagots, the merchant whom he rescued
                            from robbers, the King's councillor to whom he gave aid, all became his
                            friends. Up and down the land, to beggar or lord, homeless wanderer or
                            high-born dame, he gladly  gave unselfish service all unsought,
                            and such as he helped straightway became his friends.
                         Day by day the scissors grew sharper and sharper and ever more quick to
                            spring forward at his bidding.
                         One day a herald dashed down the highway, shouting through his silver
                            trumpet that a beautiful Princess had been carried away by the Ogre. She
                            was the only child of the King of this country, and the knights and
                            nobles of all other realms and all the royal potentates were prayed to
                            come to her rescue. To him who could bring her back to her father's
                            castle should be given the throne and kingdom, as well as the Princess
                            herself.
                        
                        So from far and near, indeed from almost every country under the sun,
                            came knights and princes to fight the Ogre. One by one their brave heads
                            were cut off and stuck on poles along the moat that surrounded the
                            castle.
                        Still the beautiful Princess languished in her prison. Every night at
                            sunset she was taken up to the roof for a glimpse of the sky, and told
                            to bid good-by to the sun, for the next morning would surely be her
                            last. Then she would wring her lily-white hands and wave a sad farewell
                            to her home, lying far to the westward. When the knights saw this they
                            would rush down to the chasm and sound a challenge to the Ogre.
                        They were brave men, and they would not have feared to meet the fiercest
                            wild beasts, but many shrunk back when the Ogre came rushing out. They
                            dared not meet in single combat, this monster with the gnashing teeth,
                            each one of which was as big as a millstone.
                        Among those who drew back were Ethelried's brothers (the three that were
                            dark and the three that were fair). They would not acknowledge their
                            fear. They said, "We are 
                            
                                THE PRINCESS.
                            
                            
                             only waiting to lay some wily plan to
                            capture the Ogre."
                        After several days Ethelried reached the place on foot. "See him,"
                            laughed one of the brothers that was dark to one that was fair. "He
                            comes afoot; no prancing steed, no waving plumes, no trusty sword;
                            little and lorn, he is not fit to be called a brother to princes." But
                            Ethelried heeded not their taunts. He dashed across the drawbridge, and,
                            opening his scissors, cried:
                        
                            
                                "Giant scissors, rise in power!
                                Grant me my heart's desire this hour!"
                            
                        
                        The crowds on the other side held their breath as the Ogre rushed out,
                            brandishing a club as big as a church steeple. Then Whack Bang! The
                            blows of the scissors, warding off the blows of the mighty club, could
                            be heard for miles around.
                        At last Ethelried became so exhausted that he could scarcely raise his
                            hand, and it was plain to be seen that the scissors could not do battle
                            much longer. By this time a great many people, attracted by the terrific
                            noise, had come running up to the moat. The news had spread  far and wide that Ethelried was in danger;
                            so every one whom he had ever served dropped whatever he was doing, and
                            ran to the scene of the battle. The peasant was there, and the shepherd,
                            and the lords and beggars and high-born dames, all those whom Ethelried
                            had ever befriended.
                        As they saw that the poor Prince was about to be vanquished, they all
                            began a great lamentation, and cried out bitterly.
                        "He saved my harvest," cried one. " He found my lamb," cried another. "
                            He showed me a greater kindness still," shouted a third. And so they
                            went on, each telling of some unselfish service that the Prince had
                            rendered him. Their voices all joined at last into such a roar of
                            gratitude that the scissors were given fresh strength on account of it.
                            They grew longer and longer, and stronger and stronger, until with one
                            great swoop they sprang forward and cut the ugly old Ogre's head from
                            his shoulders.
                        Every cap was thrown up, and such cheering rent the air as has never been
                            heard since They did not know his name, they 'did not know that he was
                            Prince Ethelried, but they  knew by his
                            valor that there was royal blood in his veins. So they all cried out
                            long and loud: "Long live the Prince!Prince Ciseaux!"
                            Then the King stepped down from his throne and took off his crown to
                            give to the conqueror, but Ethelried put it aside.
                        "Nay," he said. "The only kingdom that I crave is the kingdom of a loving
                            heart and a happy fireside. Keep all but the Princess."
                        So the Ogre was killed, and the Prince came into his kingdom that was his
                            heart's desire. He married the Princess, and there was feasting and
                            merrymaking for seventy days and seventy nights, and they all lived
                            happily ever after.
                        When the feasting was over, and the guests had all gone to their homes,
                            the Prince pulled down the house of the Ogre and built a new one. On
                            every gable he fastened a pair of shining scissors to remind himself
                            that only through unselfish service to others comes the happiness that
                            is highest and best.
                        Over the great entrance gate he hung the ones that had served him so
                            valiantly, saying, "Only those who belong to the kingdom of loving
                            hearts and happy homes can ever enter here."
                        
                        One day the old King, with the brothers of Ethelried (the three that were
                            dark and the three that were fair), came riding up to the portal. They
                            thought to share in Ethelried's fame and splendor. But the scissors
                            leaped from their place and snapped so angrily in their faces that they
                            turned their horses and fled.
                        Then the scissors sprang back to their place again to guard the portal of
                            Ethelried, and, to this day, only those who belong to the kingdom of
                            loving hearts may enter the Gate of the Giant Scissors.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        
                            BEHIND THE GREAT GATE.
                        
                        THAT was the tale of the giant scissors as it was told
                            to Joyce in the pleasant fire-lighted room; but behind the great gates
                            the true story went on in a far different way.
                        Back of the Ciseaux house was a dreary field, growing drearier and
                            browner every moment as the twilight deepened; and across its rough
                            furrows a tired boy was stumbling wearily homeward. He was not more than
                            nine years old, but the careworn expression of his thin white face might
                            have belonged to a little old man of ninety. He was driving two unruly
                            goats towards the house. The chase they led him would have been a
                            laughable sight, had he not Looked so small and forlorn plodding along
                            in his clumsy wooden shoes, and a peasart's blouse of blue cotton,
                            several sizes too large for his thin little body.
                        
                        The anxious look in his eyes changed to one of fear as he drew nearer the
                            house. At the sound of a gruff voice bellowing at him from the end of
                            the lane, he winced as if he had been struck.
                        "Ha, there, Jules! Thou lazy vagabond! Late again! Canst thou never learn
                            that I am not to be kept waiting?"
                        "But, Brossard," quavered the boy in his shrill, anxious voice, "it was
                            not my fault, indeed it was not. The goats were so stubborn to-night.
                            They broke through the hedge, and I had to chase them over three
                            fields." "Have done with thy lying excuses," was the rough answer. "Thou
                            shalt have no supper to-night. Maybe an empty stomach will teach thee
                            when my commands fail. Hasten and drive the goats into the pen."
                        There was a scowl on Brossard's burly red face that made Jules's heart
                            bump up in his throat. Brossard was only the caretaker of the Ciseaux
                            place, but he had been there for twenty years,--so long that he felt
                            himself the master. The real master was in Algiers nearly all the time.
                            During his absence the great house was closed, excepting the kitchen and
                            two rooms  above it. Of these Brossard had
                            one and Henri the other. Henri was the cook; a slow, stupid old man, not
                            to be jogged out of either his good-nature or his slow gait by anything
                            that Brossard might say.
                        Henri cooked and washed and mended, and hoed in the garden. Brossard
                            worked in the fields and shaved down the expenses of their living closer
                            and closer. All that was thus saved fell to his share, or he might not
                            have watched the expenses so carefully.
                        Much saving had made him miserly. Old Therese, the woman with the
                            fish-cart, used to say that he was the stingiest man in all Tourraine.
                            She ought to know, for she had sold him a fish every Friday during all
                            those twenty years, and he had never once failed to quarrel about the
                            price. Five years had gone by since the master's last visit. Brossard
                            and Henri were not likely to forget that time, for they had been
                            awakened in the dead of night by a loud knocking at the side gate. When
                            they opened it the sight that greeted them made them rub their sleepy
                            eyes to be sure that they saw aright.
                        There stood the master, old Martin Ciseaux. 
                            His hair and fiercely bristling mustache had turned entirely white since
                            they had last seen him. In his arms he carried a child.
                        Brossard almost dropped his candle in his first surprise, and his wonder
                            grew until he could hardly contain it, when the curly head raised itself
                            from monsieur's shoulder, and the sleepy baby voice lisped something in
                            a foreign tongue.
                        "By all the saints!" muttered Brossard, as he stood aside for his master
                            to pass.
                        "It's my brother Jules's grandson," was the curt explanation that
                            monsieur offered. "Jules is dead, and so is his son and all the
                            family,--died in America. This is his son's son, Jules, the last of the
                            name. If I choose to take him from a foreign poorhouse and give him
                            shelter, it's nobody's business, Louis Brossard, but my own."
                        With that he strode on up the stairs to his room, the boy still in his
                            arms. This sudden coming of a four-year-old child into their daily life
                            made as little difference to Brossard and Henri as the presence of the
                            four-months-old puppy. They spread a Cot for him in Henri's room when
                            the master went back to Algiers.  BEHIND
                            THE GREAT GATE. They gave him something to eat three times a day when
                            they stopped for their own meals, and then went on with their work as
                            usual.
                         It made no difference to them that he sobbed in the dark for his mother
                            to come and sing him to sleep,--the happy young mother who had petted
                            and humored him in her own fond American fashion. They could not
                            understand his speech; more than that, they could not understand him.
                            Why should he mope alone in the garden with that beseeching look of a
                            lost dog in his big, mournful eyes? Why should he not play and be happy,
                            like the neighbor's children or the kittens or any other young thing
                            that had life and sunshine?
                        Brossard snapped his fingers at him some. times at first, as he would
                            have done to a playful animal; but when Jules drew back, frightened by
                            his foreign speech and rough voice, he began to dislike the timid child.
                            After awhile he never noticed him except to push him aside or to find
                            fault.
                        It was from Henri that Jules picked up whatever French he learned, and it
                            was from Henri also that he had received the one awkward caress, and the
                            only one, that his desolate  little heart
                            had known in all the five loveless years that he had been with them.
                        A few months ago Brossard had put him out in the field to keep the goats
                            from straying away from their pasture, two stubborn crea. tures, whose
                            self-willed wanderings had brought many a scolding down on poor Jules's
                            head. To-night he was unusually unfortunate, for added to the weary
                            chase they had led him was this stern command that he should go to bed
                            without his supper.
                        He was about to pass into the house, shiver. ing and hungry, when Henri
                            put his head out at the window. "Brossard," he called, "there isn't
                            enough bread for supper; there's just this dry end of a loaf. You should
                            have bought as I told you, when the baker's cart stopped here this
                            morning."
                        Brossard slowly measured the bit of hard, black bread with his eye, and,
                            seeing that there was not half enough to satisfy the appetites of two
                            hungry men, he grudgingly drew a franc from his pocket.
                        "Here, Jules," he called. "Go down to the bakery, and see to it that thou
                            art back by the time that I have milked the goats, or thou  shalt go to bed with a beating, as well as
                            supperless. Stay! " he added, as Jules turned to go. "I have a mind to
                            eat white bread tonight instead of black. It will cost an extra sou, so
                            be careful to count the change. It is only once or so in a twelvemonth,"
                            he muttered to himself as an excuse for his extravagance. It was half a
                            mile to the village, but down hill all the way, so that Jules reached
                            the bakery in a very short time.
                        Several customers were ahead of him, however, and he awaited his turn
                            nervously. When he left the shop an old lamplighter was going down the
                            street with torch and ladder, leaving a double line of twinkling lights
                            in his wake, as he disappeared down the wide "Paris road." Jules watched
                            him a moment, and then ran rapidly on. For many centuries the old
                            village of St. Symphorien had echoed with the clatter of wooden shoes on
                            its ancient cobblestones; but never had foot-falls in its narrow,
                            crooked streets kept time to the beating of a lonelier little heart.
                        The officer of Customs, at his window beside the gate that shuts in the
                            old town at night, nodded in a surly way as the boy hurried  past. Once outside the gate, Jules walked
                            more slowly, for the road began to wind up-hill. Now he was out again in
                            the open country, where a faint light lying over the frosty fields
                            showed that the moon was rising.
                        Here and there lamps shone from the windows of houses along the road;
                            across the field came the bark of a dog, welcoming his master; two old
                            peasant women passed him in a creaking cart on their glad way home.
                         At the top of the hill Jules stopped to take breath, leaning for a
                            moment against the stone wall. He was faint from hunger, for he had been
                            in the fields since early morning, with nothing for his midday lunch but
                            a handful of boiled chestnuts. The smell of the fresh bread tantalized
                            him beyond endurance. Oh, to be able to take a mouthful,--just one
                            little mouthful of that brown, sweet crust!
                        He put his face down close, and shut his eyes, drawing in the delicious
                            odor with long, deep breaths. What bliss it would be to have that whole
                            loaf for his own,--he, little Jules, who was to have no supper that
                            night! He held it up in the moonlight, hungrily looking at it on every
                            side. There was not a broken  place to be
                            found anywhere on its surface; not one crack in all that hard, brown
                            glaze of crust, from which he might pinch the tiniest crumb.
                        For a moment a mad impulse seized him to tear it in pieces, and eat every
                            scrap, regardless of the reckoning with Brossard afterwards. But it was
                            only for a moment. The memory of his last beating stayed his hand. Then,
                            fearing to dally with temptation, lest it should master him, he thrust
                            the bread under his arm, and ran every remaining step of the way
                            home.
                        Brossard took the loaf from him, and pointed with it to the stairway,--a
                            mute command for Jules to go to bed at once. Tingling with a sense of
                            injustice, the little fellow wanted to shriek out in all his hunger and
                            misery, defying this monster of a man; but a struggling sparrow might as
                            well have tried to turn on the hawk that held it. He clenched his hands
                            to keep from snatching something from the table, set out so temptingly
                            in the kitchen, but he dared not linger even to look at it. With a
                            feeling of utter helplessness he passed it in silence, his face white
                            and set.
                        Dragging his tired feet slowly up the stairs, he went over to the
                            casement window, and  swung it open; then,
                            kneeling down, he laid his head on the sill, in the moonlight. Was it
                            his dream that came back to him then, or only a memory? He could never
                            be sure, for if it were a memory, it was certainly as strange
                            as any dream, unlike anything he had ever known in his life
                            with Henri and Brossard. Night after night he had comforted himself with
                            the picture that it brought before him.
                        He could see a little white house in the middle of a big lawn. There were
                            vines on the porches, and it must have been early in the evening, for
                            the fireflies were beginning to twinkle over the lawn. And the grass had
                            just been cut, for the air was sweet with the smell of it. A woman,
                            standing on the steps under the vines, was calling "Jules, Jules, it is
                            time to come in, little son!"
                        But Jules, in his white dress and shoulder-knots  knots of blue ribbon, was toddling across the lawn after a
                            firefly.
                        Then she began to call him another way. Jules had a vague idea that it
                            was a part of some game that they sometimes played together. It sounded
                            like a song, and the words were not like any that he had ever heard
                            since he came to live with Henri and Brossard. He could not forget them,
                            though, for had they not sung themselves through that beautiful dream
                            every time he had it?
                        
                            " Little Boy Blue, oh, where are you ?
                            O, where are you-u-u-u?"
                        
                        He only laughed in the dream picture and ran on after the firefly. Then a
                            man came running after him, and, catching him, tossed him up laughingly,
                            and carried him to the house on his shoulder.
                         Somebody held a glass of cool, creamy milk for him to drink, and by and
                            by he was in a little white night-gown in the woman's lap. His head was
                            nestled against her shoulder, and he could feel her soft lips touching
                            him on cheeks and eyelids and mouth, before she began to sing:
                        
                        
                            "Oh, little Boy Blue, lay by your horn,
                            And mother will sing of the cows and the corn,
                            Till the stars and the angels come to keep
                            Their watch, where my baby lies fast asleep."
                        
                        Now all of a sudden Jules knew that there was another kind of hunger
                            worse than the longing for bread. He wanted the soft touch of those lips
                            again on his mouth and eyelids, the loving pressure of those restful
                            arms, a thousand times more than he had wished for the loaf that he had
                            just brought home. Two hot tears, that made his eyes ache in their slow
                            gathering, splashed down on the window-sill.
                        Down below Henri opened the kitchen door and snapped his fingers to call
                            the dog. Looking out, Jules saw him set a plate of bones on the step.
                            For a moment he listened to the animal's contented crunching, and then
                            crept across the room to his cot, with a little moan. "O-o-oh--o-oh!" he
                            sobbed. "Even the dog has more than I have, and I'm so
                            hungry!" He hid his head awhile in the old quilt; then he raised it
                            again, and, with the tears streaming down his thin little face, sobbed
                            in a heart-broken whisper: "Mother! Mother! Do you know how hungry I
                            am?" 
                        
                         A clatter of knives and forks from the kitchen below was the only
                            answer, and he dropped despairingly down again.
                        "She's so far away she can't even hear me!" he moaned. "Oh, if I could
                            only be dead, too!"
                        He lay there, crying, till Henri had finished washing the supper dishes
                            and had put them clumsily away. The rank odor of tobacco, stealing up
                            the stairs, told him that Brossard had settled down to enjoy his evening
                            pipe. Through the casement window that was still ajar came the faint
                            notes of an accordeon from Monsieur Grville's garden, across the way.
                            Gabriel, the coachman, was walking up and down in the moonlight, playing
                            a wheezy accompaniment to the only song he knew. Jules did not notice it
                            at first, but after awhile, when he had cried himself quiet, the faint
                            melody began to steal soothingly into his consciousness. His eyelids
                            closed drowsily, and then the accordeon seemed to be singing something
                            to him. He could not understand at first, but just as he was dropping
                            off to sleep he heard it quite clearly:
                        
                            "Till the stars and the angels come to keep
                            Their watch, where my baby lies fast asleep."
                        
                        
                        Late in the night Jules awoke with a start, and sat up, wondering what
                            had aroused him. He knew that it must be after midnight, for the moon
                            was nearly down. Henri was snoring. Suddenly such a strong feeling of
                            hunger came over him, that he could think of nothing else. It was like a
                            gnawing pain. As if he were being led by some power outside of his own
                            will, he slipped to the door of the room. The little bare feet made no
                            noise on the carpetless floor. No mouse could have stolen down the
                            stairs more silently than timid little Jules. The latch of the kitchen
                            door gave a loud click that made him draw back with a shiver of alarm;
                            but that was all. After waiting one breathless minute, his heart beating
                            like a trip-hammer, he went on into the pantry.
                        The moon was so far down now, that only a white glimmer of light showed
                            him the faint outline of things; but his keen little nose guided him.
                            There was half a cheese on the swinging shelf, with all the bread that
                            had been left from supper. He broke off great pieces of each in eager
                            haste. Then he found a crock of goat's milk. Lifting it to his mouth, he
                            drank with big, quick gulps until he had to 
                            
                                "IT FELL TO THE FLOOR WITH A CRASH."
                            
                            
                             stop for breath. Just as he was about to
                            raise it to his lips again, some instinct of danger made him look up.
                            There in the doorway stood Brossard, bigger and darker and more
                            threatening than he had ever seemed before.
                        A frightened little gasp was all that the child had strength to give. He
                            turned so sick and faint that his nerveless fingers could no longer hold
                            the crock. It fell to the floor with a crash, and the milk spattered all
                            over the pantry. Jules was too terrified to utter a sound. It was
                            Brossard who made the outcry. Jules could only shut his eyes and crouch
                            down trembling, under the shelf. The next instant he was dragged out,
                            and Brossard's merciless strap fell again and again on the poor
                            shrinking little body, that writhed under the cruel blows.
                        Once more Jules dragged himself up-stairs to his cot, this time bruised
                            and sore, too exhausted for tears, too hopeless to think of possible
                            to-morrows.
                        Poor little prince in the clutches of the ogre! If only fairy tales might
                            be true! If only some gracious spirit of elfin lore might really come at
                            such a time with its magic wand of 
                            healing! Then there would be no more little desolate hearts, no more
                            grieved little faces with undried tears upon them in all the earth. Over
                            every threshold where a child's wee feet had pattered in and found a
                            home, it would hang its guardian Scissors of Avenging, so that only
                            those who belong to the kingdom of loving hearts and gentle hands would
                            ever dare to enter.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV.
                        
                            A LETTER AND A MEETING.
                        
                        NEARLY a week later Joyce sat at her desk, hurrying to
                            finish a letter before the postman's arrival.
                        "Dear Jack," it began.
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "You and Mary will each get a letter this week. Hers is
                                            the fairy tale that Cousin Kate told me, about an old
                                            gate near here. I wrote it down as well as I could
                                            remember. I wish you could see that gate. It gets more
                                            interesting every day, and I'd give most anything to see
                                            what lies on the other side. Maybe I shall soon, for
                                            Marie has a way of finding out anything she wants to
                                            know. Marie is my new maid. Cousin Kate went to Paris
                                            last week, to be gone until nearly Christmas, so she got
                                            Marie to take care of me.
                                        "It seems so odd to have somebody button my boots and
                                            brush my hair, and take me out to walk as if I were a
                                            big doll. I have to be very dignified and act as if I
                                            had always been used to such things. I believe  Marie would be shocked to
                                            death if she knew that I had ever washed dishes, or
                                            pulled weeds out of the pavement, or romped with you in
                                            the barn.
                                        "Yesterday when we were out walking I got so tired of
                                            acting as if I were a hundred years old, that I felt as
                                            if I should scream. 'Marie,' I said, 'I've a mind to
                                            throw my muff in the fence-corner and rur and hang on
                                            behind that wagon that's going down-hill.' She had no
                                            idea that I was in earnest. She just smiled very
                                            politely and said, 'Oh, mademoiselle, impossible! How
                                            you Americans do love to jest.' But it was no joke. You
                                            can't imagine how stupid it is to be with nobody but
                                            grown people all the time. I'm fairly aching for a good
                                            old game of hi spy or prisoner's base with you. There is
                                            nothing at all to do, but to take poky walks.
                                        "Yesterday afternoon we walked down to the river. There's
                                            a double row of trees along it on this side, and several
                                            benches where people can wait for the tramcars that pass
                                            down this street and then across the bridge into Tours.
                                            Marie found an old friend of hers sitting on one of the
                                            benches,--such a big fat woman, and oh, such a gossip!
                                            Marie said she was tired, so we sat there a long time.
                                            Her friend's name is Clotilde Robard. They talked about
                                            everybody in St. Symphorien.
                                        "Then I gossiped, too. I asked Clotilde Robard if she
                                            knew why the gate with the big scissors was never opened
                                            any more. She told me that she used to be one of the
                                            maids there, before she married the spice-monger and was
                                            Madame Robard. Years before she went to live there, when
                                            the old Monsieur Ciseaux died, there 
                                            
                                                OUT WITH MARIE.
                                            
                                            
                                             was a dreadful quarrel
                                            about some money. The son that got the property told his
                                            brother and sister never to darken his doors again.
                                        "They went off to America, and that big front gate has
                                            never been opened since they passed out of it. Clotilde
                                            says that some people say that they put a curse on it,
                                            and something awful will happen to the first one who
                                            dares to go through. Isn't that interesting?
                                        "The oldest son, Mr. Martin Ciseaux, kept up the place
                                            for a long time, just as his father had done, but he
                                            never married. All of a sudden he shut up the house,
                                            sent away all the servants but the two who take care of
                                            it, and went off to Algiers to live. Five years ago he
                                            came back to bring his little grand-nephew, but nobody
                                            has seen him since that time.
                                        "Clotilde says that an orphan asylum would have been a
                                            far better home for Jules (that is the boy's name), for
                                            Brossard, the caretaker, is so mean to him. Doesn't that
                                            make you think of Prince Ethelried in the fairy tale?
                                            'Little and lorn; no fireside welcomed him and no lips
                                            gave him a friendly greeting.'
                                        " Marie says that she has often seen Jules down in the
                                            field, back of his uncle's house, tending the goats. I
                                            hope that I may see him sometime.
                                        "Oh, dear, the postman has come sooner than I expected.
                                            He is talking down in the hall now, and if I do not post
                                            this letter now it will miss the evening train and be
                                            too late for the next mail steamer. Tell mamma that I
                                            will answer all her questions about my lessons and
                                            clothes next week. Oceans of love to everybody in the
                                            dear little brown house."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                        Hastily scrawling her name, Joyce ran out into the hall with her letter.
                            "Anything for me?" she asled, anxiously, leaning over the banister to
                            drop the letter into Marie's hand. "One, mademoiselle," was the answer.
                            "But it has not a foreign stamp."
                        "Oh, from Cousin Kate!" exclaimed Joyce, tearing it open as she went back
                            to her room. At the door she stooped to pick up a piece of paper that
                            had dropped from the envelope. It crackled stiffly as she unfolded
                            it.
                        "Money!" she exclaimed in surprise."A whole twenty franc note. What could
                            Cousin Kate have sent it for?" The last page of the letter
                            explained.
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "I have just remembered that December is not very far
                                            off, and that whatever little Christmas gifts we send
                                            home should soon be started on their way. Enclosed you
                                            will find twenty francs for your Christmas shopping. It
                                            is not much, but we are too far away to send anything
                                            but the simplest little remembrances, things that will
                                            not be spoiled in the mail, and on which little or no
                                            duty need be paid. You might buy one article each day,
                                            so that there will be some purpose in your walks into
                                            Tours.
                                        "I am sorry that I can not be with you on Thanksgiving
                                            Day. We will have to drop it from our calendar  this year; not the
                                            thanksgiving itself, but the turkey and mince pie part.
                                            Suppose you take a few francs to give yourself some
                                            little treat to mark the day. I hope my dear little girl
                                            will not be homesick all by herself. I never should have
                                            left just at this time if it had not been very
                                            necessary."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        Joyce smoothed out the bank-note and looked at it with sparkling eyes.
                            Twenty whole francs! The same as four dollars! All the money that she
                            had ever had in her whole life put together would not have amounted to
                            that much. Dimes were scarce in the little brown house, and even pennies
                            seldom found their way into the children's hands when five pairs of
                            little feet were always needing shoes, and five healthy appetites must
                            be satisfied daily.
                        All the time that Joyce was pinning her treasure securely in her pocket
                            and putting on her hat and jacket, all the time that she was walking
                            demurely down the road with Marie, she was planning different ways in
                            which to spend her fortune.
                        "Mademoiselle is very quiet," ventured Marie, remembering that one of her
                            duties was to keep up an improving conversation with her little
                            mistress.
                        
                        "Yes," answered Joyce, half impatiently; "I've got something so lovely to
                            think about, that I'd like to go back and sit down in the garden and
                            just think and think until dark, without being interrupted by
                            anybody."
                        This was Marie's opportunity. "Then mademoiselle might not object to
                            stopping in the garden of the villa which we are now approaching," she
                            said. "My friend, Clotilde Robard, is housekeeper there, and I have a
                            very important message to deliver to her."
                        Joyce had no objection. "But, Marie," she said, as she paused at the
                            gate, "I think I'll not go in. It is so lovely and warm out here in the
                            sun that I'll just sit here on the steps and wait for you."
                        Five minutes went by and then ten. By that time Joyce had decided how to
                            spend every centime in the whole twenty francs, and Marie had not
                            returned. Another five minutes went by. It was dull, sitting there
                            facing the lonely highway, down which no one ever seemed to pass. Joyce
                            stood up, looked all around, and then slowly sauntered down the road a
                            short distance.
                        Here and there in the crevices of the wall 
                            blossomed a few hardy wild flowers, which Joyce began to gather as she
                            walked. "I'll go around this bend in the road and see what's there," she
                            said to herself. "By that time Marie will surely be done with her
                            messages."
                         No one was in sight in any direction, and feeling that no one could be
                            in hearing distance, either, in such a deserted place, she began to
                            sing. It was an old Mother Goose rhyme that she hummed over and over, in
                            a low voice at first, but louder as she walked on.
                        Around the bend in the road there was nothing to be seen but a lonely
                            field where two goats were grazing. On one side of it was a stone wall,
                            on two others a tall hedge, but the side next her sloped down to the
                            road, unfenced.
                        Joyce, with her hands filled with the yellow wild flowers, stood looking
                            around her, sing. ing the old rhyme, the song that she had taught the
                            baby to sing before he could talk plainly:
                        
                            "Little Boy Blue, come blow your horn,
                            The sheep's in the meadow, the cow's in the corn.
                            Little Blue Blue, oh, where are you?
                            Oh, where are you-u-u-u?"
                        
                        
                        The gay little voice that had been rising higher and higher, sweet as any
                            bird's, stopped suddenly in mid-air; for, as if in answer to hcr call,
                            there was a rustling just ahead of her, and a boy who had been lying on
                            his back, looking at the sky, slowly raised himself out of the
                            grass.
                        For an instant Joyce was startled; then seeing by his wooden shoes and
                            old blue cotton blouse that he was only a little peasant watching the
                            goats, she smiled at him with a pleasant good morning.
                        He did not answer, but came towards her with a dazed expression on his
                            face, as if he were groping his way through some strange dream. "It is
                            time to go in!" he exclaimed, as if repeating some lesson learned long
                            ago, and half forgotten.
                        Joyce stared at him in open-mouthed astonishment. The little fellow had
                            spoken in English. "Oh, you must be Jules," she cried. "Aren't you? I've
                            been wanting to find you for ever so long."
                        The boy seemed frightened, and did not answer, only looked at her with
                            big, troubled eyes. Thinking that she had made a mistake, 
                            
                                " HE CAME TOWARDS HER WITH A DAZED EXPRESSION ON HIS FACE."
                            
                            
                             chat she had not heard aright, Joyce spoke
                            in French. He answered her timidly. She had not been mistaken; he was
                            Jules; he had been asleep, he told her, and when he heard her singing,
                            he thought it was his mother calling him as she used to do, and had
                            started up expecting to see her at last. Where was she? Did mademoiselle
                            know her ? Surely she must if she knew the song.
                        It was on the tip of Joyce's tongue to tell him that everybody knew that
                            song; that it was as familiar to the children at home as the chirping of
                            crickets on the hearth or the sight of dandelions in the spring-time.
                            But some instinct warned her not to say it. She was glad afterwards,
                            when she found that it was sacred to him, woven in as it was with his
                            one beautiful memory of a home. It was all he had, and the few words
                            that Joyce's singing had startled from him were all that he remembered
                            of his mother's speech.
                        If Joyce had happened upon him in any other way, it is doubtful if their
                            acquaintance would have grown very rapidly. He was afraid of strangers;
                            but coming as she did with the familiar song that was like an old
                            friend, he  felt that he must have known
                            her sometime,--that other time when there was always a sweet voice
                            calling, and fireflies twinkled across a dusky lawn.
                        Joyce was not in a hurry for Marie to come now. She had a hundred
                            questions to ask, and made the most of her time by talking very fast.
                            "Marie will be frightened," she told Jules, " if she does not find me at
                            the gate, and will think that the gypsies have stolen me. Then she will
                            begin to hunt up and down the road, and I don't know what she would say
                            if she came and found me talking to a strange child out in the fields,
                            so I must hurry back. I am glad that I found you. I have been wishing so
                            long for somebody to play with, and you seem like an old friend because
                            you were born in America. I'm going to ask madame to ask Brossard to let
                            you come over sometime."
                        Jules watched her as she hurried away, running lightly down the road, her
                            fair hair flying over her shoulders and her short blue skirt fluttering.
                            Once she looked back to wave her hand. Long after she was out of sight
                            he still stood looking after her, as one might gaze longingly  after some visitant from another world.
                            Nothing like her had ever dropped into his life before, and he wondered
                            if he should ever see her again.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V.
                        
                            A THANKSGIVING BARBECUE.
                        
                        
                        THIS doesn't seem a bit like Thanksgiving Day, Marie,"
                            said Joyce, plaintively, as Sshe sat up in bed to take the early
                            breakfast that her maid brought in,--a cup of chocolate and a roll.
                        "In our country the very minute you wake up you can feel that it is a
                            holiday. Outdoors it's nearly always cold and gray, with everything
                            covered with snow. Inside you can smell turkey and pies and all sorts of
                            good spicy things. Here it is so warm that the windows are open and
                            flowers blooming in the garden, and there isn't a thing to make it seem
                            different from any other old day."
                        
                        Here her grumbling was interrupted by a knock at the door, and Madame
                            Grville's maid, Berth, came in with a message.
                        "Madame and monsieur intend spending the day in Tours, and since
                            Mademoiselle Ware has written that Mademoiselle Joyce is to have no
                            lessons on this American holiday, they will be pleased to have her
                            accompany them in the carriage. She can spend the morning with them
                            there or return immediately with Gabriel."
                        "Of course I want to go," cried Joyce. "I love to drive. But I'd rather
                            come back here to lunch and have it by myself in the garden. Berthe, ask
                            madame if I can't have it served in the little kiosk at the end of the
                            arbor."
                        As soon as she had received a most gracious permission, Joyce began to
                            make a little plan. It troubled her conscience somewhat, for she felt
                            that she ought to mention it to madame, but she was almost certain that
                            madame would object, and she had set her heart on carrying it out.
                        "I won't speak about it now," she said to herself, "because I am not sure
                            that I am going to do it. Mamma would think it was  all right, but foreigners are so queer about some
                            things."
                        Uncertain as Joyce may have been about her future actions, as they drove
                            towards town, no sooner had madame and monsieur stepped from the
                            carriage, on the Rue Nationale, than she was perfectly sure.
                        "Stop at the baker's, Gabriel," she ordered as they turned homeward, then
                            at the big grocery on the corner. "Cousin Kate told me to treat myself
                            to something nice," she said apologetically to her conscience, as she
                            gave up the twenty francs to the clerk to be changed.
                        If Gabriel wondered what was in the little parcels which she brought back
                            to the carriage, he made no sign. He only touched his hat respectfully,
                            as she gave the next order: "Stop where the road turns by the cemetery,
                            Gabriel; at the house with the steps going up to an iron-barred gate.
                            I'll be back in two or three minutes," she said, when she had reached
                            it, and climbed from the carriage.
                        To his surprise, instead of entering the gate, she hurried on past it,
                            around the bend in the road. In a little while she came running back,
                                 her shoes covered with damp earth, as
                            if she had been walking in a freshly ploughed field.
                        If Gabriel's eyes could have followed her around that bend in the road,
                            he would have seen a sight past his understanding: Mademoiselle Joyce
                            running at the top of her speed to meet a little goatherd in wooden
                            shoes and blue cotton blouse,--a common little peasant goatherd.
                        "It's Thanksgiving Day, Jules," she announced, gasping, as she sank down
                            on the ground beside him. "We're the only Americans here, and everybody
                            has gone off; and Cousin Kate said to celebrate in some way. I'm going
                            to have a dinner in the garden. I've bought a rabbit, and we'll dig a
                            hole, and make a fire, and barbecue it the way Jack and I used to do at
                            home. And we'll roast eggs in the ashes, and have a fine time. I've got
                            a lemon tart and a little iced fruit-cake, too."
                        All this was poured out in such breathless haste, and in such a confusion
                            of tongues, first a sentence of English and then a word of French, that
                            it is no wonder that Jules grew bewildered in trying to follow her. She
                            had to begin  again at the beginning, and
                            speak very slowly, in order to make him understand that it was a feast
                            day of some kind, and that he, Jules, was invited to some sort of a
                            strange, wonderful entertainment in Monsieur Grville's garden. " But
                            Brossard is away from home," said Jules, "and there is no one to watch
                            the goats, and keep them from straying down the road. Still it would be
                            just the same if he were home," he added, sadly. " He would not let me
                            go, I am sure. I have never been out of sight of that roof since I first
                            came here, except on errands to the village, when I had to run all the
                            way back." He pointed to the peaked gables, adorned by the scissors of
                            his crazy old ancestor.
                        "Brossard isn't your father," cried Joyce, indignantly, "nor your uncle,
                            nor your cousin, nor anything else that has a right to shut you up that
                            way. Isn't there a field with a fence all around it, that you could
                            drive the goats into for a few hours ?"
                        Jules shook his head.
                        "Well, I can't have my Thanksgiving spoiled for just a couple of old
                            goats," exclaimed Joyce. "You'll have to bring them along, and we'll  shut them up in the carriage-house. You
                            come over in about an hour, and I'll be at the side gate waiting for
                            you."
                        Joyce had always been a general in her small way. She made her plans and
                            issued her orders both at home and at school, and the children accepted
                            her leadership as a matter of course. Even if Jules had not been willing
                            and anxious to go, it is doubtful if he could have mustered courage to
                            oppose the arrangements that she made in such a masterful way; but Jules
                            had not the slightest wish to object to anything whatsoever that Joyce
                            might propose.
                        It is safe to say that the old garden had never before even dreamed of
                            such a celebration as the one that took place that afternoon behind its
                            moss-coated walls. The time-stained statue of Eve, which stood on one
                            side of the fountain, looked across at the weather-beaten figure of
                            Adam, on the other side, in stony-eyed surprise. The little marble satyr
                            in the middle of the fountain, which had been grinning ever since its
                            endless shower-bath began, seemed to grin wider than ever, as it watched
                            the children's strange sport.
                        Jules dug the little trench according to 
                            Joyce's directions, and laid the iron grating which she had borrowed
                            from the cook across it, and built the fire underneath. " We ought to
                            have something especially patriotic and Thanksgivingey," said Joyce,
                            standing on one foot to consider. "Oh, now I know." she cried, after a
                            moment's thought. "Cousin Kate has a lovely big silk flag in the top of
                            her trunk. I'll run and get that, and then I'll recite the 'Landing of
                            the Pilgrims' to you while the rabbit cooks."
                        Presently a savory odor began to steal along the winding paths of the
                            garden, between the laurel-bushes,--a smell of barbecued meat sputtering
                            over the fire. Above the door of the little kiosk, with many a soft
                            swish of silken stirrings, hung the beautiful old flag. Then a clear
                            little voice floated up through the pine-trees:
                        
                            "My country, 'tis of thee,
                            Sweet land of liberty,
                            Of thee I sing!"
                        
                        All the time that Joyce sang, she was moving around the table, setting
                            out the plates and rattling cups and saucers. She could not keep a
                            little quaver out of her voice, for, as she went  on, all the scenes of all the times that she had sung that
                            song before came crowding up in her memory. There were the Thanksgiving
                            days in the church at home, and the Washington's birthdays at school,
                            and two Decoration days, when, as a granddaughter of a veteran, she had
                            helped scatter flowers over the soldiers' graves.
                        Somehow it made her feel so hopelessly far away from all that made life
                            dear to be singing of that "sweet land of liberty" in a foreign country,
                            with only poor little alien Jules for company.
                        Maybe that is why the boy's first lesson in patriotism was given so
                            earnestly by his homesick little teacher. Something that could not be
                            put into words stirred within him, as, looking up at the soft silken
                            flutterings of the old flag, he listened for the first time to the story
                            of the Pilgrim Fathers.
                        The rabbit cooked slowly, so slowly that there was time for Jules to
                            learn how to play mumble-peg while they waited. At last it was done, and
                            Joyce proudly plumped it into the platter that had been waiting for it.
                            Marie tad already brought out a bountiful lunch, cold meats and salad
                            and a dainty pudding. By the time that 
                            Joyce had added her contribution to the feast, there was scarcely an
                            inch of the table left uncovered. Jules did not know the names of half
                            the dishes.
                        Not many miles away from that old garden, scattered up and down the Loire
                            throughout all the region of fair Tourraine, rise the turrets of many an
                            old chateau. Great banquet halls, where kings and queens once feasted,
                            still stand as silent witnesses of a gay bygone court life; but never in
                            any chateau or palace among them all was feast more thoroughly enjoyed
                            than this impromptu dinner in the garden, where a little goatherd was
                            the only guest.
                        It was an enchanted spot to Jules, made so by the magic of Joyce's
                            wonderful gift of story-telling. For the first time in his life that he
                            could remember, he heard of Santa Claus and Christmas trees, of
                            Bluebeard and Aladdin's lamp, and all the dear old fairy tales that were
                            so entrancing he almost forgot to eat.
                        Then they played that he was the prince, Prince Ethelried, and that the
                            goats in the carriage-house were his royal steeds, and that Joyce was a
                            queen whom he had come to visit. But it came to an end, as all beautiful
                            things 
                            
                                
                                    A LESSON IN PATRIOTISM
                                
                            
                            
                             must do. The bells in the village rang
                            four, and Prince Ethelried started up as Cinderella must have done when
                            the pumpkin coach disappeared. He was no longer a king's son; he was
                            only Jules, the little goatherd, who must hurry back to the field before
                            the coming of Brossard.
                        Joyce went with him to the carriage-house. Together they swung open the
                            great door. Then an exclamation of dismay fell from Joyce's lips. All
                            over the floor were scattered scraps of leather and cloth and hair, the
                            kind used in upholstering. The goats had whiled away the hours of their
                            imprisonment by chewing up the cushions of the pony cart.
                        Jules turned pale with fright. Knowing so little of the world, he judged
                            all grown people by his knowledge of Henri and Brossard. "Oh, what will
                            they do to us?" he gasped.
                        "Nothing at all," answered Joyce, bravely, although her heart beat twice
                            as fast as usual as monsieur's accusing fade rose up before her.
                        "It was all my fault," said Jules, ready to cry. "What must I do?" Joyce
                            saw his distress, and with quick womanly tact recognized
                        
                        her duty as hostess. It would never do to let this, his first
                            Thanksgiving Day, be clouded by a single unhappy remembrance. She would
                            pretend that it was a part of their last game; so she waved her hand,
                            and said, in a theatrical voice, "You forget, Prince Ethelried, that in
                            the castle of Irmingarde she rules supreme. If it is the pleasure of
                            your royal steeds to feed upon cushions they shall not be denied, even
                            tho gh they choose my own coach pillows, of gold-cloth and velour."
                        "But what if Gabriel should tell Brossard?" questioned Jules, his teeth
                            almost chattering at the mere thought.
                        "Oh, never mind, Jules," she answered, laughingly. "Don't worry about a
                            little thing like that. I'll make it all right with madame as soon as
                            she gets home."
                        Jules, with utmost faith in Joyce's power to do anything that she might
                            undertake, drew a long breath of relief. Half a dozen times between the
                            gate' and the lane that led into the Ciseaux field, he turned around to
                            wave his old cap in answer to the hopeful flutter of her little white
                            handkerchief; but when he was out of sight she went back to the
                            carriage-house  house and looked at the
                            wreck of the cushions with a sinking heart. After that second look, she
                            was not so sure of making it all right with madame.
                        Going slowly up to her room, she curled up in the window-seat to wait for
                            the sound of the carriage wheels. The blue parrots on the wallpaper sat
                            in their blue hoops in straight rows from floor to ceiling, and hung all
                            their dismal heads. It seemed to Joyce as if there were thousands of
                            them, and that each one was more unhappy than any of the others. The
                            blue roses on the bed-curtains, that had been in such gay blossom a few
                            hours before, looked ugly and unnatural now.
                        Over the mantel hung a picture that had been a pleasure to Joyce ever
                            since she had taken up her abode in this quaint blue room. It was called
                            "A Message from Noel," and showed an angel flying down with gifts to
                            fill a pair of little wooden shoes that some child had put out on a
                            window-sill below. When madame had explained that the little French
                            children put out their shoes for Saint Nol to fill, instead of hanging
                            stockings for Santa Claus, Joyce had been so charmed with the  picture that she declared that she
                            intended to follow the French custom herself, this year.
                        Now, even the picture looked different, since she had lost her joyful
                            anticipations of Christmas. "It is all No-el to me now," she sobbed. "No
                            tree, no Santa Claus, and now, since the money must go to pay for the
                            goats' mischief, no presents for anybody in the dear little brown house
                            at home,--not even mamma and the baby!"
                        A big salty tear trickled down the side of Joyce's nose and splashed on
                            her hand; then another one. It was such a gloomy ending for her happy
                            Thanksgiving Day. One consoling thought came to her in time to stop the
                            deluge that threatened. "Anyway, Jules has had a good time for once in
                            his life." The thought cheered her so much that, when Marie came in to
                            light the lamps, Joyce was walking up and down the room with her hands
                            behind her back, singing.
                        As soon as she was dressed for dinner she went down-stairs, but found no
                            one in the drawing-room. A small fire burned cozily on the hearth, for
                            the November nights were growing chilly. Joyce picked up a book and
                            tried  to read, but found herself looking
                            towards the door fully as often as at the page before her. Presently she
                            set her teeth together and swallowed hard, for there was a rustling in
                            the hall. The portiere was pushed aside and madame swept into
                            the room in a dinner-gown of dark red velvet.
                        To Joyce's waiting Sees she seemed more imposing, more elegant, and more
                            unapproachable than she had ever been before. At madame's entrance Joyce
                            rose as usual, but when the red velvet train had swept on to a seat
                            beside the fire, she still remained standing. Her lips seemed glued
                            together after those first words of greeting.
                        "Be seated, mademoiselle," said the lady, with a graceful motion of her
                            hand towards a chair. "How have you enjoyed your holiday?"
                        Joyce gave a final swallow of the choking 
                            lump in her throat, and began her humble con. fession that she had
                            framed up-stairs among the rows of dismal blue wall-paper parrots. She
                            started with Clotilde Robard's story of Jules, told of her accidental
                            meeting with him, of all that she knew of his hard life with Brossard,
                            and of her longing for some one to play with. Then she acknowledged that
                            she had planned the barbecue secretly, fearing that madame would not
                            allow her to invite the little goatherd. At the conclusion, she opened
                            the handkerchief which she had been holding tightly clenched in her
                            hand, and poured its contents in the red velvet lap.
                        "There's all that is left of my Christmas money," she said, sadly, "
                            seventeen francs and two sous. If it isn't enough to pay for the
                            cushions, I'll write to .Cousin Kate, and maybe she will lend me the
                            rest."
                        Madame gathered up the handful of coin, and slowly rose. "It is only a
                            step to the carriage-house," she said. " If you will kindly ring for
                            Berth to bring a lamp we will look to see how much damage has been
                            done."
                        It was an unusual procession that filed down the garden walk a few
                            minutes later. First  came Berth, in her
                            black dress and white cap, holding a lamp high above her head, and
                            screwing her forehead into a mass of wrinkles as she peered out into the
                            surrounding darkness. After her came madame, holding up her dress and
                            stepping daintily along in her high-heeled little slippers. Joyce
                            brought up the rear, stumbling along in the darkness of madame's large
                            shadow, so absorbed in her troubles that she did not see the amused
                            expression on the face of the grinning satyr in the fountain.
                        Eve, looking across at Adam, seemed to wink one of her stony eyes, as
                            much as to say, "Humph! Somebody else has been getting into trouble.
                            There's more kinds of forbidden fruit than one; pony-cart cushions, for
                            instance."
                        Berth opened the door, and madame stepped inside the carriage-house.
                            With her skirts held high in both hands, she moved around among the
                            wreck of the cushions, turning over a bit with the toe of her slipper
                            now and then.
                        Madame wore velvet dinner-gowns, it is true, and her house was elegant in
                            its fine old furnishings bought generations ago; but only her dressmaker
                            and herself knew how many times  those
                            gowns had been ripped and cleaned and remodelled. It was only constant
                            housewifely skill that kept the antique furniture repaired and the
                            ancient brocade hangings from falling into holes. None but a French
                            woman, trained in petty economies, could have guessed how little money
                            and how much thought was spent in keeping her table up to its high
                            standard of excellence.
                        Now as she looked and estimated, counting the fingers of one hand with
                            the thumb of the other, a wish stirred in her kind old heart that she
                            need not take the child's money; but new cushions must be bought, and
                            she must be just to herself before she could be generous to others. So
                            she went on with her estimating and counting, and then called Gabriel to
                            consult with him.
                        "Much of the same hair can be used again," she said, finally," and the
                            cushions were partly worn, so that it would not be right for you to have
                            to bear the whole expense of new ones. I shall keep sixteen,--no, I
                            shall keep only fifteen francs of your money, mademoiselle. I am sorry
                            to take any of it, since you have been so frank with me; but you must
                            see that it  would not be justice for me to
                            have to suffer in consequence of your fault. In France, children do
                            nothing without the permission of their elders, and it would be well for
                            you to adopt the same rule, my dear mademoiselle."
                        Here she dropped two francs and two sous into Joyce's hand. It was more
                            than she had dared to hope for. Now there would be at least a little
                            picture-book apiece for the children at home.
                        This time Joyce saw the grin on the satyr's face when they passed the
                            fountain. She was smiling herself when they entered the house, where
                            monsieur was waiting to escort them politely in to dinner.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI.
                        
                            JOYCE PLAYS GHOST.
                        
                        MONSIEUR CISEAUX was coming home to
                            live. Gabriel brought the news when he came back from market. He had met
                            Henri on the road and heard it from him. Monsieur was coming home. That
                            was all they knew; as to the day or the hour, no one could guess. That
                            was the way with monsieur, Henri said. He was so peculiar one never knew
                            what to expect.
                        Although the work of opening the great house was begun immediately, and a
                            thorough cleaning was in progress from garret to cellar, Brossard did
                            not believe that his master would really be at home before the end of
                            the week. He made his own plans accordingly, although he hurried Henri
                            relentlessly with the cleaning.
                        As soon as Joyce heard the news she made an excuse to slip away, and ran
                            down to the field to Jules. She found him paler than  usual, and there was , swollen look about
                            his eyes that made her think that maybe he had been crying.
                        "What's the matter ?" she asked. "Aren't you glad that your uncle is
                            coming home?"
                        Jules gave a cautious glance over his shoulder towards the house, and
                            then looked up at Joyce. Heretofore, some inward monitor of pride had
                            closed his lips about himself whenever he had been with her, but, since
                            the Thanksgiving Day that had made them such firm friends, he had wished
                            every hour that he could tell her of his troubles. He felt that she was
                            the only person in the world who took any interest in him. Although she
                            was only three years older than himself, she had that motherly little
                            way with her that eldest daughters are apt to acquire when there is a
                            whole brood of little brothers and sisters constantly claiming
                            attention.
                        So when Joyce asked again, "What's the matter, Jules?" with so much
                            anxious sympathy in her face and voice, the child found himself blurting
                            out the truth.
                        "Brossard beat me again last night," he exclaimed. Then, in response to
                            her indignant exclamation, he poured out the whole story of  his ill-treatment. "See here!" he cried,
                            in conclusion, unbuttoning his blouse and baring his thin little
                            shoulders. Great red welts lay across them, and one arm was blue with a
                            big mottled bruise.
                        Joyce shivered and closed her eyes an instant to shut out the sight that
                            brought the quick tears of sympathy.
                        "Oh, you poor little thing!" she cried. "I'm going to tell madame." "No,
                            don't!" begged Jules. "If Brossard ever found out that I had told
                            anybody, I believe that he would half kill me. He punishes me for the
                            least thing. I had no breakfast this morning because I dropped an old
                            plate and broke it."
                        "Do you mean to say," cried Joyce, "that you have been out here in the
                            field since sunrise without a bite to eat?"
                        Jules nodded.
                        "Then I'm going straight home to get you something." Before he could
                            answer she was darting over the fields like a little flying
                            squirrel.
                        "Oh, what if it were Jack!" she kept repeating as she ran. "Dear old
                            Jack, beaten and starved, without anybody to love him or say a  kind word to him." The mere thought of
                            such misfortune brought a sob.
                        In a very few minutes Jules saw her coming across the field again, more
                            slowly this time, for both hands were full, and without their aid she
                            had no way to steady the big hat that flapped forward into her eyes at
                            every step. Jules eyed the food ravenously. He had not known how weak
                            and hungry he was until then.
                        "It will not be like this when your uncle comes home," said Joyce, as she
                            watched the big mouthfuls disappear down the grateful little throat.
                            Jules shrugged his shoulders, answering tremulously, "Oh, yes, it will
                            be lots worse. Brossard says that my Uncle Martin has a terrible temper,
                            and that he turned his poor sister and my grandfather out of the house
                            one stormy might. Brossard says he shall tell him how troublesome I am,
                            and likely he will turn me out, too. Or, if he doesn't do that, they
                            will both whip me every day."
                        Joyce stamped her foot. "I don't believe it," she cried, indignantly.
                            "Brossard is only trying to scare you. Your uncle is an old man  now, so old that he must be sorry for the
                            way he acted when he was young. Why, of course he must be," she
                            repeated, "or he never would have brought you here when you were left a
                            homeless baby. More than that, I believe he will be angry when he finds
                            how you have been treated. Maybe he will send Brossard away when you
                            tell him."
                        "I would not dare to tell him," said Jules, shrinking back at the bare
                            suggestion. "Then I dare," cried Joyce with flashing
                            eyes. "I am not afraid of Brossard or Henri or your uncle, or any man
                            that I ever knew. What's more, I intend to march over here just as soon
                            as your uncle comes home, and tell him right before Brossard how you
                            have been treated."
                        Jules gasped in admiration of such reckless courage. "Seems to me
                            Brossard himself would be afraid of you if you looked at him that way."
                            Then his voice sank to a whisper. " Brossard is afraid of one thing,
                            I've heard him tell Henri so, and that is ghosts. They
                            talk about them every night when the wind blows hard and makes queer
                            noises in the chimney. Sometimes they are afraid to put  out their candles for fear some evil
                            spirit might be in the room."
                        "I'm glad he is afraid of something, the mean old thing!" exclaimed
                            Joyce. For a few moments nothing more was said, but Jules felt comforted
                            now that he had unburdened his long pent up little heart. He reached out
                            for several blades of grass and began idly twisting them around his
                            finger.
                        Joyce sat with her hands clasped over her knees, and a wicked little
                            gleam in her eyes that boded mischief. Presently she giggled as if some
                            amusing thought had occurred to her, and when Jules looked up
                            inquiringly she began noiselessly clapping her hands together.
                        "I've thought of the best thing," she said. "I'll fix old Brossard now.
                            Jack and I have played ghost many a time, and have even scared each
                            other while we were doing it, because we were so frightful-looking. We
                            put long sheets all over us and went about with pumpkin jack-o'-lanterns
                            on our heads. Oh, we looked awful, all in white, with fire shining out
                            of those hideous eyes and mouths. If I knew when Brossard was likely to
                            whip you again, I'd suddenly appear on the scene  and shriek out like a banshee and make him stop. Wouldn't
                            it be lovely?" she cried, more carried away with the idea the longer she
                            thought of it. "Why, it would be like acting our fairy story. You are
                            the Prince, and I will be the giant scissors and rescue you from the
                            Ogre. Now let me see if I can think of a rhyme for you to say whenever
                            you need me."
                        Joyce put her hands over her ears and began to mumble something that had
                            no meaning whatever for Jules: "Ghost--post--roast--toast,--no that will
                            never do; need--speed deed,--no! Help--yelp (I wish I could make him
                            yelp),--friend--spend--lend,--that's it. I shall try that."
                        There was a long silence, during which Joyce whispered to herself with
                            closed eyes. "Now I've got it," she announced, triumphantly, "and it's
                            every bit as good as Cousin Kate's:
                        
                            "Giant scissors, fearless friend,
                            Hasten, pray, thy aid to lend.
                        
                        "If you could just say that loud enough for me to hear I'd come rushing
                            in and save you."
                        Jules repeated the rhyme several times, until  he was sure that he could remember it, and then Joyce
                            stood up to go.
                        "Good-by, fearless friend," said Jules. "I wish I were brave like you."
                            Joyce smiled in a superior sort of way, much flattered by the new title.
                            Going home across the field she held her head a trifle higher than
                            usual, and carried on an imaginary conversation with Brossard, in which
                            she made him quail before her scathing rebukes.
                        Joyce did not take her usual walk that afternoon. She spent the time
                            behind locked doors busy with paste, scissors, and a big muff-box, the
                            best foundation she could find for a jack-o'-lantern. First she covered
                            the box with white paper and cut a hideous face in one side,--great
                            staring eyes, and a frightful grinning mouth. With a bit of wire she
                            fastened a candle inside and shut down the lid.
                        "Looks too much like a box yet," she said, after a critical examination.
                            "It needs some hair and a beard. Wonder what I can make it of." She
                            glanced all around the room for a suggestion, and then closed her eyes
                            to think. Finally she went over to her bed, and, turning  the covers back from one corner, began
                            ripping a seam in the mattress. When the opening was wide enough she put
                            in her thumb and finger and pulled out a handful of the curled hair. "I
                            can easily put it back when I have used it, and sew up the hole
                            in the mattress," she said to her conscience. "My! This is exactly what
                            I needed."
                        The hair was mixed, white and black, coarse and curly as a negro's
                            wool.
                        She covered the top of the pasteboard head with it, and was so pleased
                            that she added long beard and fierce mustache to the already hideous
                            mouth. When that was all done she took it into a dark closet and lighted
                            the candle. The monster's head glared at her from the depth of the
                            closet, and she skipped back and forth in front of it, wringing her
                            hands in delight.
                        "Oh, if Jack could only see it ! If he could  only see it!" she kept exclaiming. "It is better than any pumpkin
                            head we ever made, and scary enough to throw old Brossard into a fit. I
                            can hardly wait until it is dark enough to go over."
                        Meanwhile the short winter day drew on towards the close. Jules, out in
                            the field with the goats, walked back and forth, back and forth, trying
                            to keep warm. Brossard, who had gone five miles down the Paris road to
                            bargain about some grain, sat comfortably in a little tobacco shop, with
                            a pipe in his mouth and a glass and bottle on the table at his elbow.
                            Henri was at home, still scrubbing and cleaning. The front of the great
                            house was in order, with even the fires laid on all the hearths ready
                            for lighting. Now he was scrubbing the back stairs. His brush bumped
                            noisily against the steps, and the sound of its scouring was nearly
                            drowned by the jerky tune which the old fellow sung through his nose as
                            he worked.
                        A carriage drove slowly down the road and stopped at the gate with the
                            scissors; then, in obedience to some command from within, the vehicle
                            drove on to the smaller gate beyond. An old man with white hair and
                            bristling  mustache slowly alighted. The
                            master had come home. He put out his hand as if to ring the bell, then
                            on second thought drew a key from his pocket and fitted it in the lock.
                            The gate swung back and he passed inside. The old house looked gray and
                            forbidding in the dull light of the late afternoon. He frowned up at it,
                            and it frowned down on him, standing there as cold and grim as itself.
                            That was his only welcome.
                        The doors and windows were all shut, so that he caught only a faint sound
                            of the bump, thump of the scrubbing-brush as it accompanied Henri's
                            high-pitched tune down the back stairs.
                        Without giving any warning of his arrival, he motioned the man beside the
                            coachman to follow with his trunk, and silently led the way up-stairs.
                            When the trunk had been unstrapped and the man had departed, monsieur
                            gave one slow glance all around the room. It was in perfect readiness
                            for him. He set a match to the kindling laid in the grate, and then
                            closed the door into the hall. The master had come home again, more
                            silent, more mysterious in his movements than before.  Henri finished his scrubbing and his
                            song, and, going down into the kitchen, began preparations for supper. A
                            long time after, Jules came up from the field, put the goats in their
                            place, and crept in behind the kitchen stove.
                        Then it was that Joyce, from her watch-tower of her window, saw Brossard
                            driving home in the market-cart. "Maybe I'll have a chance to scare him
                            while he is putting the horse up and feeding it," she thought. It was in
                            the dim gloaming when she could easily slip along by the hedges without
                            attracting attention. Bareheaded, and in breathless haste to reach the
                            barn before Brossard, she ran down the road, keeping close to the hedge,
                            along which the wind raced also, blowing the dead leaves almost as high
                            as her head.
                        Slipping through a hole in the hedge, just as Brossard drove in at the
                            gate, she ran into the barn and crouched down behind the door. There she
                            wrapped herself in the sheet that she had brought with her for the
                            purpose, and proceeded to strike a match to light the lantern. The first
                            one flickered and went out. The second did the same. Brossard was
                            calling  angrily for Jules now, and she
                            struck another match in nervous haste, this time touching the wick with
                            it before the wind could interfere. Then she drew her dress over the
                            lantern to hide the light.
                        "Wouldn't Jack enjoy this," she thought, with a daring little giggle that
                            almost betrayed her hiding-place.
                        "I tell thee it is thy fault," cried Brossard's angry voice, drawing
                            nearer the barn.
                        "But I tried," began Jules, timidly.
                        His trembling excuse was interrupted by Erossard, who had seized him by
                            the arm. They were now on the threshold of the barn, which was as dark
                            as a pocket inside.
                        Joyce, peeping through the crack of the door, saw the man's arm raised in
                            the dim twilight outside. "Oh, he is really going to beat him," she
                            thought, turning faint at the prospect. Then her indignation overcame
                            every other feeling as she heard a heavy halter-strap whiz through the
                            air and fall with a sickening blow across Jules's shoulders. She had
                            planned a scene something like this while she worked away at the lantern
                            that afternoon. Now she felt as if she were acting a part in some
                            private theatrical performance  Jules's
                            cry gave her the cue, and the courage to appear.
                        As the second blow fell across Jules's smarting shoulders, a low,
                            blood-curdling wail came from the dark depths of the barn. Joyce had not
                            practised that dismal moan of a banshee to no purpose in her ghost
                            dances at home with Jack. It rose and fell and quivered and rose again
                            in cadences of horror. There was something awful, something inhuman, in
                            that fiendish, long-drawn shriek.
                        Brossard's arm fell to his side paralyzed with fear, as that same hoarse
                            voice cried, solemnly: "Brossard, beware! Beware!" But worse than that
                            voice of sepulchral warning was the white-sheeted figure, coming towards
                            him with a wavering, ghostly motion, fire shooting from the demon-like
                            eyes, and flaming from the hideous mouth.
                        Brossard sank on his knees in a shivering heap, and began crossing
                            himself. His hair was upright with horror, and his tongue stiff. Jules
                            knew who it was that danced around them in such giddy circles, first
                            darting towards them with threatening gestures, and then gliding back to
                            utter one of those awful, sickening 
                            wails. He knew that under that fiery head and wrapped in that spectral
                            dress was his "fearless friend," who, according to promise, had hastened
                            her aid to lend; nevertheless, he was afraid of her himself. He had
                            never imagined that anything could look so terrifying.
                        The wail reached Henri's ears and aroused his curiosity. Cautiously
                            opening the kitchen door, he thrust out his head, and then nearly fell
                            backward in his haste to draw it in again and slam the door. One glimpse
                            of the ghost in the barnyard was quite enough for Henri.
                        Altogether the performance probably did not last longer than a minute,
                            but each of the sixty seconds seemed endless to Brossard. With a final
                            die-away moan Joyce glided towards the gate, delighted beyond measure
                            with her success; but her delight did not last long. Just as she turned
                            the corner of the house, some one standing in the shadow of it clutched
                            her. A strong arm was thrown around her, and a firm hand snatched the
                            lantern, and tore the sheet away from her face.
                        It was Joyce's turn to be terrified. "Let me go!" she shrieked, in
                            English. With one desperate 
                            
                                
                                    "' BROSSARD, BEWARE! BEWARE! "'
                                
                            
                            
                             wrench she broke away, and by the light
                            of the grinning jack-o'-lantern saw who was her captor. She was face to
                            face with Monsieur Ciseaux.
                        "What does this mean?" he asked, severely. "Why do you come masquerading
                            here to frighten my servants in this manner?"
                        For an instant Joyce stood speechless. Her boasted courage had forsaken
                            her. It was only for an instant, however, for the rhyme that she had
                            made seemed to sound in her ears as distinctly as if Jules were calling
                            to her:
                        
                            "Giant scissors, fearless friend,
                            Hasten, pray, thy aid to lend."
                        
                        "I will be a fearless friend," she thought. Looking defiantly up into the
                            angry face she demanded: " Then why do you keep such servants? I came
                            because they needed to be frightened, and I'm glad you caught me, for I
                            told Jules that I should tell yu about them as soon as you got home.
                            Brossard has starved and beaten him like a dog ever since he has been
                            here. I just hope that you will look at the stripes and bruises on his
                            poor little back. He begged me not to. tell, for Brossard said you  would likely drive him away, as you did
                            your brother and sister. But even if you do, the neighbors say that an
                            orphan asylum would be a far better home for Jules than this has been. I
                            hope you'll excuse me, monsieur, I truly do, but I'm an American, and I
                            can't stand by and keep still when I see anybody being abused, even if I
                            am a girl, and it isn't polite for me to talk so to older people."
                        Joyce fired out the words as if they had been bullets, and so rapidly
                            that monsieur could scarcely follow her meaning. Then, having relieved
                            her mind, and fearing that maybe she had been rude in speaking so
                            forcibly to such an old gentleman, she very humbly begged his pardon.
                            Before he could recover from her rapid change in manner and her torrent
                            of words, she reached out her hand, saying, in the meekest of little
                            voices, "And will you please give me back those things, monsieur? The
                            sheet is Madame Grville's, and I've got to stuff that hair back in the
                            mattress to-night."
                        Monsieur gave them to her, still too astonished for words. He had never
                            before heard dny child speak in such a way. This one seemed more like a
                            wild, uncanny little sprite  than like any
                            of the little girls he had known heretofore. Before he could recover
                            from his bewilderment, Joyce had gone. "Good night, monsieur," she
                            called, as the gate clanged behind her.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER VII.
                        
                            OLD "NUMBER THIRTY-ONE."
                        
                        No sooner had the gate closed upon the subdued little ghost, shorn now of
                            its terrors, than the old man strode forward to the place where Brossard
                            crouched in the straw, still crossing himself. This sudden appearance of
                            his master at such a time only added to Brossard's fright. As for Jules,
                            his knees shook until he could scarcely stand.
                        Henri, his curiosity lending him courage, cautiously opened the kitchen
                            door to peer out again. Emboldened by the silence, he flung the door
                            wide open, sending a broad stream of lamplight across the little group
                            in the barnyard. Without a word of greeting monsieur laid hold of the
                            trembling Jules and drew him nearer the door. Throwing open the child's
                            blouse, he examined the thin little shoulders, which  shrank away as if to dodge some expected
                            blow.
                        "Go to my room," was all the old man said to him. Then he turned fiercely
                            towards Brossard.  His angry tones reached Jules even after he
                            had mounted the stairs and closed the door. The child crept close to the
                            cheerful fire, and, crouching down on the rug, waited in a shiver of
                            nervousness for his uncle's step on the stair.
                        
                        Meanwhile, Joyce, hurrying home all a-tingle with the excitement of her
                            adventure, wondered anxiously what would be the result of it. Under
                            cover of the dusk she slipped into the house unobserved. There was
                            barely time to dress for dinner. When she made her appearance monsieur
                            complimented her unusually red cheeks.
                        "Doubtless mademoiselle has had a fine promenade," he said.
                        "No," answered Joyce, with a blush that made them redder still, and that
                            caused madame to look at her so keenly that she felt those sharp eyes
                            must be reading her inmost thoughts. It disturbed her so that she upset
                            the salt, spilled a glass of water, and started to eat her soup with a
                            fork. She glanced in an embarrassed way from madame to monsieur, and
                            gave a nervous little laugh.
                        "The little mademoiselle has been in mischief again," remarked monsieur,
                            with a smile. "What is it this time?"
                        The smile was so encouraging that Joyce's determination not to tell
                            melted away, and she began a laughable account of the afternoon's
                            adventure. At first both the old people looked shocked. Monsieur
                            shrugged his shoulders and  pulled his
                            gray beard thoughtfully. Madame threw up her hands at the end of each
                            sentence like horrified little exclamation points. But when Joyce had
                            told the entire story neither of them had a word of blame, because their
                            sympathies were so thoroughly aroused for Jules.
                        "I shall ask Monsieur Ciseaux to allow the child to visit here
                            sometimes," said madame, her kind old heart full of pity for the
                            motherless little fellow; "and I shall also explain that it was only
                            your desire to save Jules from ill treatment that caused you to do such
                            an unusual thing. Otherwise he might think you too bold and too--well,
                            peculiar, to be a fit playmate for his little nephew."
                        "Oh, was it really so improper and horrid of me, madame? " asked Joyce,
                            anxiously.
                        Madame hesitated. "The circumstances were some excuse," she finally
                            admitted. "But I certainly should not want a little daughter of mine to
                            be out after dark by herself on such a wild errand. In this country a
                            little girl would not think it possible to do such a thing."
                        Joyce's face was very sober as she arose to leave the room. "I do wish
                            that I could be  proper like little French
                            girls," she said, with a sigh.
                        Madame drew her towards her, kissing her on both cheeks. It was such an
                            unusual thing for madame to do that Joyce could scarcely help showing
                            some surprise. Feeling that the caress was an assurance that she was not
                            in disgrace, as she had feared, she ran up-stairs, so light-hearted that
                            she sang on the way.
                        As the door closed behind her, monsieur reached for his pipe, saying, as
                            he did so, "She has a heart of gold, the little mademoiselle."
                        "Yes," assented madame; "but she is a strange little body, so untamed and
                            original. I am glad that her cousin returns soon, for the responsibility
                            is too great for my old shoulders. One never knows what she will do
                            next."
                        Perhaps it was for this reason that madame took Joyce with her when she
                            went to Tours next day. She felt safer when the child was in her
                            sight.
                        "It is so much nicer going around with you than Marie," said Joyce,
                            giving madame an affectionate little pat, as they stood before the
                            entrance of a. great square building, awaiting admission. "You take me
                            to places that I  have never seen before.
                            What place is this?" She stooped to read the inscription on the
                            door-plate:
                        
                            "LITTLE SISTERS OF THE POOR."
                        
                        Before her question could be answered, the door was opened by a wrinkled
                            old woman, in a nodding white cap, who led them into a reception-room at
                            the end of the hall.
                        "Ask for Sister Denisa," said madame, "and give her my name."
                        The old woman shuffled out of the room, and madame, taking a small
                            memorandum book from her pocket, began to study it. Joyce sat looking
                            about her with sharp, curious glances. She wondered if these little
                            sisters of the poor were barefoot beggar girls, who went about the
                            streets with ragged shawls over their heads, and with baskets in their
                            hands. In her lively imagination she pictured row after row of such
                            unfortunate children, marching out in the morning, empty-handed, and
                            creeping back at night with the results of the day's begging. She did
                            not like to ask about them, however, and, in a few minutes, her
                            curiosity was satisfied without the use of questions.
                        
                        Sister Denisa entered the room. She was a beautiful woman, in the plain
                            black habit and white head-dress of a sister of charity.
                        "Oh, they're nuns!" exclaimed Joyce, in a disappointed whisper. She had
                            been hoping to see the beggar girls. She had often passed the convent in
                            St. Symphorien, and caught glimpses of the nuns, through the high barred
                            gate. She had wondered how it must feel to be shut away from the world;
                            to see only the patient white faces of the other sisters, and to walk
                            with meekly folded hands and downcast eyes always in the same old
                            paths.
                        But Sister Denisa was different from the nuns that she had seen before.
                            Some inward joy seemed to shine through her beautiful face and make it
                            radiant. She laughed often, and there was a happy twinkle in her clear,
                            gray eyes. When she cane into the room, she seemed to bring the outdoors
                            with her, there was such sunshine and fresh air in the cheeriness of her
                            greeting.
                        Madame had come to visit an old pensioner of hers who was in the home.
                            After a short conversation, Sister Denisa rose to lead the way to her.
                            "Would the little mademoiselle 
                            
                                
                                    JOYCE AND SISTER DENISA.
                                
                            
                            
                             like to go through the house while madame
                            is engaged ?" asked the nun.
                        "Oh, yes, thank you," answered Joyce, who had found by this time that
                            this home was not for little beggar girls, but for old men and women.
                            Joyce had known very few old people n her short life, except her
                            Grandmother Ware; nd this grandmother was one of those dear, sunny old
                            souls, whom everybody loves to claim, whether they are in the family or
                            not. Some of Joyce's happiest days had been spent in her grandmother's
                            country home, and the host of happy memories that she had stored up
                            during those visits served to sweeten all her after life.
                        Old age, to Joyce, was associated with the most beautiful things that she
                            had ever known: the warmest hospitality, the tenderest love, the
                            cheeriest home-life. Strangers were in the old place now, and
                            Grandmother Ware was no longer living, but, for her sake, Joyce held
                            sacred every wrinkled face set round with snow-white hair, just as she
                            looked tenderly on all old-fashioned flowers, because she had seen them
                            first in her grandmother's garden.
                        Sister Denisa led the way into a large, sunny  room, and Joyce looked around eagerly. It was crowded with
                            old men. Some were sitting idly on the benches around the walls, or
                            dozing in chairs near the stove. Some smoked, some gathered around the
                            tables where games of checkers and chess were going on; some gazed
                            listlessly out of the windows. It was good to see how dull faces
                            brightened, as Sister Denisa passed by with a smile for this group, a
                            cheery word for the next. She stopped to brush the hair back from the
                            forehead of an old paralytic, and pushed another man gently aside, when
                            he blocked the way, with such a sweet-voiced "Pardon, little father,"
                            that it was like a caress. One white-haired old fellow, in his second
                            childhood, reached out and caught at her dress, as she passed by.
                        Crossing a porch where were more old men sitting sadly alone, or walking
                            sociably up and down in the sunshine, Sister Denisa passed along a court
                            and held the door open for Joyce to enter another large room.
                        "Here is the rest of our family," she said. "A large one, is it not? Two
                            hundred poor old people that nobody wants, and nobody cares what becomes
                            of."
                        
                        Joyce looked around the room and saw on every hand old age that had
                            nothing beautiful, nothing attractive. "Were they beggars when they were
                            little?" she asked.
                        "No, indeed," answered the nun. "That is the saddest part of it to me.
                            Nearly all these poor creatures you see here once had happy homes of
                            their own. That pitiful old body over by the stove, shaking with palsy,
                            was once a gay, rich countess; the invalid whom madame visits was a
                            marquise. It would break your heart, mademoiselle, to hear the stories
                            of some of these people, especially those who have been cast aside by
                            ungrateful children, to whom their support has become a burden. Several
                            of these women have prosperous grandchildren, to whom we have appealed
                            in vain. There is no cruelty that hurts me like such cruelty to old
                            age."
                        Just then another nun came into the room, said something to Sister Denisa
                            in a low voice, and glided out like a silent shadow, her rosary swaying
                            hack and forth with every movement of her clinging black skirts. "I am
                            needed up-stairs," said Sister Denisa, turning to Joyce. "Will you come
                            up and see the sleeping-rooms?"
                        
                        They went up the freshly scrubbed steps to a great dormitory, where,
                            against the bare walls, stood long rows of narrow cots. They were all
                            empty, except one at the farthest end, where an old woman lay with her
                            handkerchief across her eyes.
                        "Poor old Number Thirty-one!" said Sister Denisa. "She seems to feel her
                            unhappy position more than any one in the house. The most of them are
                            thankful for mere bodily comfort,--satisfied with food and shelter and
                            warmth; but she is continually pining for her old home surroundings.
                            Will you not come and speak to her in English? She married a countryman
                            of yours, and lived over thirty years in America. She speaks of that
                            time as the happiest in her life. I am sure that you can give her a
                            great deal of pleasure."
                        "Is she ill ?" said Joyce, timidly drawing back as the nun started across
                            the room.
                        "No, I think not," was the answer. "She says she can't bear to be herded
                            in one room with all those poor creatures, like a flock of sheep, with
                            nothing to do but wait for death. She has always been accustomed to
                            having a room of her own, so that her greatest trial is  in having no privacy. She must eat,
                            sleep, and live with a hundred other old women always around her. She
                            comes up here to bed whenever she can find the slightest ache for an
                            excuse, just to be by herself. I wish that we could give her a little
                            spot that she could call her own, and shut the door on, and feel alone.
                            But it cannot be," she added, with a sigh. "It taxes our strength to the
                            utmost to give them all even a bare home."
                        By this time they had reached the cot, over the head of which hung a
                            card, bearing the number "Thirty-one."
                        "Here is a little friend to see you, grandmother," said Sister Denisa,
                            placing a chair by the bedside, and stooping to smooth back the locks of
                            silvery hair that had strayed out from under the coarse white night-cap.
                            Then she passed quickly on to her other duties, leaving Joyce to begin
                            the conversation as best she could. The old woman looked at her sharply
                            with piercing dark eyes, which must have been beautiful in their youth.
                            The intense gaze embarrassed Joyce, and to break the silence she
                            hurriedly stammered out the first thing that came to her mind.
                        
                        "Are you ill, to-day?"
                        The simple question had a startling effect on the old woman. She raised
                            herself on one  elbow, and reached out for Joyce's hand,
                            drawing her eagerly nearer. "Ah," she cried, "you speak the language
                            that my husband taught me to love, and the tongue my little children  lisped; but they are all dead now, and
                            I've come back to my native land to find no home but the one that
                            charity provides."
                        Her words ended in a wail, and she sank back on her pillow. "And this is
                            my birthday," she went on. "Seventy-three years old, and a pauper, cast
                            out to the care of strangers."
                        The tears ran down her wrinkled cheeks, and her mouth trembled pitifully.
                            Joyce was distressed; she looked around for Sister Denisa, but saw that
                            they were alone, they two, in the great bare dormitory, with its long
                            rows of narrow white cots. The child felt utterly helpless to speak a
                            word of comfort, although she was so sorry for the poor lonely old
                            creature that she began to cry softly to herself. She leaned over, and
                            taking one of the thin, blue-veined hands in hers, patted it tenderly
                            with her plump little fingers.
                        "I ought not to complain," said the trembling voice, still broken by
                            sobs. " We have food and shelter and sunshine and the sisters. Ah, that
                            little Sister Denisa, she is indeed a smile of God to us all. But at
                            seventy-three one wants more than a cup of coffee and a clean  handkerchief. One wants something besides
                            a bed and being just Number Thirty-one among two hundred other
                            paupers."
                        "I am so sorry!" exclaimed Joyce, with such heartfelt
                            earnestness that the sobbing woman felt the warmth of her sympathy, and
                            looked up with a brighter face.
                        "Talk to me," she exclaimed. "It has been so long since I have heard your
                            language."
                        While she obeyed Joyce kept thinking of her Grandmother Ware. She could
                            see her out, doors among her flowers, the dahlias and touch-me-nots, the
                            four-o'clocks and the cinnamon roses, taking such pride and pleasure in
                            her sweet posy beds. She could see her beside the little table on the
                            shady porch, making tea for some old neighbor who had dropped in to
                            spend the afternoon with her. Or she was asleep in her armchair by the
                            western window, her Bible in her lap and a smile on her sweet, kindly
                            face. How dreary and empty the days must seem to poor old Number
                            Thirty-one, with none of these things to brighten them.
                        Joyce could scarcely keep the tears out of her voice while she talked.
                            Later, when Sister  Denisa came back,
                            Joyce was softly humming a lullaby, and Number Thirty-one, with a smile
                            on her pitiful old face, was sleeping like a little child.
                        "You will come again, dear mademoiselle," said Sister Denisa, as she
                            kissed the child good-by at the door. "You have brought a blessing, may
                            you carry one away as well!"
                        Joyce looked inquiringly at madame. "You may come whenever you like," was
                            the answer. "Marie can bring you whenever you are in town."
                        Joyce was so quiet on the way home that madame feared the day had been
                            too fatiguing for her. "No," said Joyce, soberly. "I was only thinking
                            about poor old Number Thirty-one. I am sorrier for her than I was for
                            Jules. I used to think that there was nothing so sad as being a little
                            child without any father or mother, and having to live in an asylum.
                            I've often thought how lovely it would be to go around and find a
                            beautiful home for every little orphan in the world. But I believe, now,
                            that it is worse to be old that way. Old people can't play together, and
                            they haven't anything to look forward to, and it makes them so  miserable to remember all the things they
                            have had and lost. If I had enough money to adopt anybody, I would adopt
                            some poor old grandfather or grandmother and make'm happv all the rest
                            of their days."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII.
                        
                            CHRISTMAS PLANS. AND AN ACCIDENT.
                        
                        THAT night, when Marie came in to light the lamps and
                            brush Joyce's hair before dinner, she had some news to tell.
                        "Brossard has been sent away from the Ciseaux place," she said. "A new
                            man is coming to-morrow, and my friend, Clotilde Roba d, has already
                            taken the position of housekeeper. She says that a very different life
                            has begun for little Monsieur Jules, and that in his fine new clothes
                            one could never recognize the little goatherd. He looks now like what he
                            is, a gentleman's son. He has the room next to monsieur's, all freshly
                            furnished, and after New Year a tutor is coming from Paris.
                        "But they say that it is pitiful to see how greatly the child fears his
                            uncle. He does not understand the old man's cold, forbidding manner, and
                            it provokes monsieur to have the  little
                            one tremble and grow pale whenever he speaks. Clotilde says that Madame
                            Grville told monsieur that the boy needed games and young companions to
                            make him more like other children, and he promised her that Mon sieur
                            Jules should come over here to-morrow afternoon to play with you."
                         "Oh, good!" cried Joyce. "We'll have another barbecue if the day is
                            fine. I am so glad that we do not have to be bothered any more by those
                            tiresome old goats."
                        By the time the next afternoon arrived, however, Joyce was far too much
                            interested in something else to think of a barbecue. Cousin Kate had
                            come back from Paris with a trunk full of pretty things, and a plan for
                            the coming Christmas. At first she thought of taking only madame into
                            her confidence, and preparing a small Christmas tree for Joyce; but
                            afterwards she concluded that it would give the child more pleasure if
                            she were allowed to take part in the preparations. It would keep her
                            from being homesick by giving her something else to think about.
                        Then madame proposed inviting a few of the little peasant children who
                            had never seen  a Christmas tree. The more
                            they discussed the plan the larger it grew, like a rolling snowball. By
                            lunch-time madame had a list of thirty children, who were to be bidden
                            to the Noel fete, and Cousin Kate had decided to order a tree tall
                            enough to touch the ceiling.
                        When Jules came over, awkward and shy with the consciousness of his new
                            clothes, he found Joyce sitting in the midst of yards of gaily colored
                            tarletan. It was heaped up around her in bright masses of purple and
                            orange and scarlet and green, and she was making it into candy-bags."
                            for the tree.
                        In a few minutes Jules had forgotten all about himself, and was as busy
                            as she, pinning the little stocking-shaped patterns in place, and
                            carefully cutting cut those fascinating bags.
                        "You would be lots of help," said Joyce, "if you could come over every
                            day, for there's all  the ornaments to
                            unpack, and the corn to shell, and pop, and string. It will take most of
                            my time to dress the dolls, and there's such a short time to do
                            everything in."
                        "You never saw any pop-corn, did you, Jules ?" asked Cousin Kate. "When I
                            was here last time, I couldn't find it anywhere in France; but the other
                            day a friend told me of a grocer in Paris, who imports it for his
                            American customers every winter. So I went there. Joyce, suppose you get
                            the popper and show Jules what the corn is like."
                        Madame was interested also, as she watched the little brown kernels
                            shaken back and forth in their wire cage over the glowing coals. When
                            they began popping open, the little seeds suddenly turning into big
                            white blossoms, she sent Rosalie running to bring monsieur to see the
                            novel sight.
                        "We can eat and work at the same time," said Joyce, as she filled a dish
                            with the corn, and called Jules back to the table, where he had been
                            cutting tarletan. "There's no time to lose. See what a funny grain this
                            is!" she cried, picking up one that lay on the top of the  dish. "It looks like Therese, the
                            fishwoman, in her white cap."
                        "And here is a goat's head," said Jules, picking up another grain. "And
                            this one looks like a fat pigeon."
                        He had forgotten his shyness entirely now, and was laughing and talking
                            as easily as Jack could have done.
                        "Jules," said Joyce, suddenly, looking around to see that the older
                            people were too busy with their own conversation to notice hers. "Jules,
                            why don't you talk to your Uncle Martin the way you do to me? He would
                            like you lots better if you would. Robard says that you get pale and
                            frightened every time he speaks to you, and it provokes him for you to
                            be so timid."
                        Jules dropped his eyes. "I cannot help it," he exclaimed. "He looks so
                            grim and cross that my voice just won't come out of my throat when I
                            open my mouth."
                        Joyce studied him critically, with her head tipped a little to one side.
                            "Well, I must say," she exclaimed, finally, "that, for a boy born in
                            America, you have the least dare about you of anybody I ever saw. Your
                            Uncle Martin  isn't any grimmer or crosser
                            than a man I know at home. There's Judge Ward, so big and solemn and
                            dignified that everybody is half way afraid of him. Even grown people
                            have always been particular about what they said to him.
                        "Last summer his little nephew, Charley Ward, came to visit him.
                            Charley's just a little thing, still in dresses, and he calls his uncle,
                            Bill. Think of anybody daring to call Judge Ward, Bill! No matter what the judge was doing, or how glum he
                            looked, if Charley took a notion, he would go up and stand in front of
                            him, and say, 'Laugh, Bill, laugh!' If the judge happened to be reading,
                            he'd have to put down his book, and no matter whether he felt funny or
                            not, or whether there was anything to laugh at or not, he would have to
                            throw his head back and just roar. Charley liked to see his fat sides
                            shake, and his white teeth shine. I've heard people say that the judge
                            likes Charley better than anybody else in the world, because he's the
                            only person who acts as if he wasn't afraid of him."
                        Jules sat still a minute, considering, and then asked, anxiously, "But
                            what do you suppose  would happen if I
                            should say 'Laugh, Martin, laugh,' to my uncle?"
                        Joyce shrugged her shoulders impatiently. " Mercy, Jules, I did not mean
                            that you should act like a three-year-old baby. I meant that you ought
                            to talk up to your uncle some. Now this is the way you are." She picked
                            up a kernel of the unpopped corn, and held it out for him to see. "You
                            shut yourself up in a little hard ball like this, so that your uncle
                            can't get acquainted with you. How can he know what is inside of your
                            head if you always shut up like a clam whenever he comes near you ? This
                            is the way that you ought to be." She shot one of the great white grains
                            towards him with a deft flip of her thumb and finger. "Be free and open
                            with him."
                        Jules put the tender morsel in his mouth and ate it thoughtfully. "I'll
                            try," he promised, "if you really think that it would please him, and I
                            can think of anything to say. You don't know how I dread going to the
                            table when everything is always so still that we can hear the clock
                            tick."
                        "Well, you take my advice," said Joyce. "Talk about anything. Tell him
                            about our  Thanksgiving feast and the
                            Christmas tree, and ask him if you can't come over every day to help. I
                            wouldn't let anybody think that I was a coward."
                        Joyce's little lecture had a good effect, and monsieur saw the wisdom of
                            Madame Grville's advice when Jules came to the table that night. He had
                            brought a handful of the wonderful corn to show his uncle, and in the
                            conversation that it brought about he unconsciously showed something
                            else,--something of his sensitive inner self that aroused his uncle's
                            interest.
                        Every afternoon of the week that followed found Jules hurrying over to
                            Madame Grville's to help with the Christmas preparations. He strung
                            yards of corn, and measured out the nuts and candy for each of the gay
                            bags. Twice he went in the carriage to Tours with Cousin Kate and Joyce,
                            to help buy presents for the thirty little guests. He was jostled by the
                            holiday shoppers in crowded aisles. He stood enraptured in front of
                            wonderful show windows, and he had the joy of choosing fifteen things
                            from piles of bright tin trumpets, drums, jumping-jacks, and
                            picture-books. Joyce chose the presents for the girls.
                        
                        The tree was bought and set up in a large unused room back of the
                            library, and as soon as each article was in readiness it was carried in
                            and laid on a table beside it. Jules used to steal in sometimes and look
                            at the tapers, the beautiful colored glass balls, the gilt stars and
                            glittering tinsel, and wonder how the stately cedar would look in all
                            that array of loveliness. Everything belonging to it seemed sacred, even
                            the unused scraps of bright tarletan and the bits of broken candles. He
                            would not let Marie sweep them up to be burned, but gathered them
                            carefully into a box and carried them home. There were several things
                            that he had rescued from her broom,--one of those beautiful red balls,
                            cracked on one side it is true, but gleaming like a mammoth red cherry
                            on the other. There were scraps of tinsel and odds and ends of ornaments
                            that had been broken or damaged by careless handling. These he hid away
                            in a chest in his room, as carefully as a miser would have hoarded a bag
                            of gold.
                        Clotilde Robard, the housekeeper, wondered why she found his candle
                            burned so low several mornings. She would have wondered still more  if she had gone into his room a while
                            before daybreak. He had awakened early, and, sitting up in bed with the
                            quilts wrapped around him, spread the scraps of tarletan on his knees.
                            He was piecing together with his awkward little fingers enough to make
                            several tiny bags.
                        Henri missed his spade one morning, and hunted for it until he was out of
                            patience. It was nowhere to be seen. Half an hour later, coming back to
                            the house, he found it hanging in its usual place, where he had looked
                            for it a dozen times at least. Jules had taken it down to the woods to
                            dig up a little cedar-tree, so little that it was not over a foot high
                            when it was planted in a box.
                        Clotilde had to be taken into the secret, for he could not hide it from
                            her. "It is for my Uncle Martin," he said, timidly. "Do you think he
                            will like it?"
                        The motherly housekeeper looked at the poor little tree, decked out in
                            its scraps of cast-off finery, and felt a sob rising in her throat, but
                            she held up her hands with many admiring exclamations that made Jules
                            glow with pride.
                        
                        
                            
                                "SITTING UP IN BED WITH THE QUILTS WRAPPED AROUND
                                    HIM."
                            
                        
                        
                        
                        "I have no beautiful white strings of popcorn to hang over it like
                            wreaths of snow," he said, "so I am going down the lane for some
                            mistletoe that grows in one of the highest trees. The berries are like
                            lovely white wax beads."
                        "You are a good little lad," said the house, keeper, kindly, as she gave
                            his head an affectionate pat. "I shall have to make something to hang on
                            that tree myself; some gingerbread figures, maybe. I used to know how to
                            cut out men and horses and pigs,--nearly all the animals. I must try it
                            again some day soon."
                        A happy smile spread all over Jules's face as he thanked her. The words,
                            "You are a good little lad," sent a warm glow of pleasure through him,
                            and rang like music in his ears all the way down the lane. How bright
                            the world looked this frosty December morning! What cheeriness there was
                            in the ring of Henri's axe as he chopped away at the stove-wood! What
                            friend. liness in the baker's whistle, as he rattled by in his big cart!
                            Jules found himself whistling, too, for sheer gladness, and all because
                            of no more kindness than might have been thrown to a  dog; a pat on the head and the words,
                            "You are a good little lad."
                        Sometime after, it may have been two hours or more, Madame Grville was
                            startled by a wild, continuous ringing of the bell at her front gate.
                            Somebody was sending peal after peal echoing through the garden, with
                            quick, impatient jerks of the bell-wire. She hurried out herself to
                            answer the summons.
                        Berth had already shot back the bolt and showed Clotilde leaning against
                            the stone post, holding her fat sides and completely exhausted by her
                            short run from the Ciseaux house.
                        "Will madame send Gabriel for the doctor?" she cried, gasping for breath
                            at every word. "The little Monsieur Jules has fallen from a tree and is
                            badly hurt. We do not know how much, for he is still unconscious and his
                            uncle is away from home. Henri found him lying under a tree with a big
                            bunch of mistletoe in his arms. He carried him up-stairs while I ran
                            over to ask you to send Gabriel quickly on a horse for the doctor."
                        "Gabriel shall go immediately," said Madame  Grville, "and I shall follow you as soon as I have given the
                            order."
                        Clotilde started back in as great haste as her weight would allow,
                            puffing and blowing and wiping her eyes on her apron at every step.
                            Madame overtook her before she had gone many rods. Always calm and
                            self-possessed in every emergency, madame took command now; sent the
                            weeping Clotilde to look for old linen, Henri to the village for
                            Monsieur Ciseaux, and then turned her attention to Jules.
                        "To think," said Clotilde, coming into the room, "that the last thing the
                            poor little lamb did was to show me his Christmas tree that he was
                            making ready for his uncle!" She pointed to the corner where it stood,
                            decked by awkward boyish hands in its pitiful collection of scraps.
                        "Poor little fellow!" said madame, with tears in her own eyes. " He has
                            done the best he could. Put it in the closet, Clotilde. Jules would not
                            want it to be seen before Christmas."
                        Madame stayed until the doctor had made his visit; then the report that
                            she carried home was that Jules had regained consciousness, and  that, as far as could be discovered, his
                            only injury was a broken leg.
                        Joyce took refuge in the pear-tree. It was not alone because Jules was
                            hurt that she wanted to cry, but because they must have the Nol fte
                            without him. She knew how bitterly he would be disappointed.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX.
                        
                            A GREAT DISCOVERY.
                        
                        "ONLY two more nights till Christmas eve, two more
                            nights, two more nights," sang Joyce to Jules in a sort of chant. She
                            was sitting beside his bed with a box in her lap, full of little dolls,
                            which she was dressing. Every day since his accident she had been
                            allowed to make him two visits,--one in the morning, and one in the
                            afternoon. They helped wonderfully in shortening the long, tedious days
                            for Jules. True, Madame Grville came often with broths and jellies,
                            Cousin Kate made flying visits to leave rare hothouse grapes and big
                            bunches of violets; Clotilde hung over him with motherly tenderness, and
                            his uncle looked into the room many times a day to see that he wanted
                            nothing.
                        Jules's famished little heart drank in all this unusual kindness and
                            attention as greedily as  the parched
                            earth drinks in the rain. Still, he would have passed many a long,
                            restless hour, had it not been for Joyce's visits.
                        She brought over a photograph of the house at home, with the family
                            seated in a group on the front porch. Jules held it close while she
                            introduced each one of them. By the time he had heard all about
                            Holland's getting lost the day the circus came to town, and Jack's
                            taking the prize in a skating contest, and Mary's setting her apron on
                            fire, and the baby's sweet little ways when he said his prayers, or
                            played peek-a-boo, he felt very well acquainted with the entire Ware
                            family. Afterward, when Joyce had gone, he felt his loneliness more than
                            ever. He lay there, trying to imagine how it must feel to have a mother
                            and sisters and brothers all as fond of each other as Joyce's were, and
                            to live in the midst of such good times as always went on in the little
                            brown house.
                        Monsieur Ciseaux, sitting by his fire with the door open between the two
                            rooms, listened to Joyce's merry chatter with almost as much interest as
                            Jules. He would have been ashamed to admit how eagerly he listened for
                            her step on  the stairs every day, or what
                            longings wakened in his lonely old heart, when he sat by his loveless
                            fireside after she had gone home, and there was no more sound of
                            children's voices in the next room.
                        There had been good times in the old Ciseaux house also, once, and two
                            little brothers and a sister had played in that very room; but they had
                            grown up long ago, and the ogre of selfishness and misunderstanding had
                            stolen in and killed all their happiness. Ah, well, there was much that
                            the world would never know about that misunderstanding. There was much
                            to forgive and forget on both sides.
                        Joyce had a different story for each visit. To-day she had just finished
                            telling Jules the fairy tale of which he never tired, the tale of the
                            giant scissors.
                        "I never look at those scissors over the gate without thinking of you,"
                            said Jules, "and the night when you played that I was the Prince, and
                            you came to rescue me."
                        "I wish I could play scissors again, and rescue somebody else that I
                            know," answered Joyce. "I'd take poor old Number Thirty-one  away from the home of the Little Sisters
                            of the Poor."
                        "What's Number Thirty-one?" asked Jules. "You never told me about
                            that."
                        "Didn't I?" asked Joyce, in surprise. "She is a lonely old woman that the
                            sisters take care of. I have talked about her so often, and written home
                            so much, that I thought I had told everybody. I can hardly keep from
                            crying whenever I think of her. Marie and I stop every day we go into
                            town and take her flowers. I have been there four times since my first
                            visit with madame. Sometimes she tells me things that happened when she
                            was a little girl here in France, but she talks to me oftenest in
                            English about the time when she lived in America. I can hardly imagine
                            that she was ever as young as I am, and that she romped with her
                            brothers as I did with Jack."
                        "Tell some of the things that she told you," urged Jules; so Joyce began
                            repeating all that she knew about Number Thirty-one.
                        It was a pathetic little tale that brought tears to Jules's eyes, and a
                            dull pain to the heart of the old man who listened in the next room. "I
                            wish I were rich," exclaimed  Joyce,
                            impulsively, as she finished. "I wish I had a beautiful big home, and I
                            would adopt her for my grandmother. She should have a great lovely room,
                            where the sun shines in all day long, and it should be furnished in
                            rose-color like the one that she had when she was a girl. I'd dress her
                            in gray satin and soft white lace. She has the prettiest silvery hair,
                            and beautiful dark eyes. She would make a lovely grandmother. And I
                            would have a maid to wait on her, and there'd be mignonette always
                            growing in boxes on the window-sill. Every time I came back from town,
                            I'd bring her a present just for a nice little surprise; and I'd read to
                            her, and sing to her, and make her feel that she belonged to somebody,
                            so that she'd be happy all the rest of her days.
                        "Yesterday while I was there she was holding a little cut glass
                            vinaigrette. It had a big D engraved on the silver top. She said that it
                            was the only thing that she had left except her wedding ring, and that
                            it was to be Sister Denisa's when she was gone. The D stands for both
                            their names. Hers is Dsir. She said the vinaigrette was too precious
                            to part. with as long as she lives, because her oldest  brother gave it to her on her twelfth
                            birthday, when she was exactly as old as I am. Isn't Dsir a pretty
                            name?"
                        "Mademoiselle," called Monsieur Ciseaux from the next room,
                            "mademoiselle, will you come--will you tell me--what name was that ?
                            Dsir, did you say?"
                        There was something so strange in the way he called that name Dsir,
                            almost like a cry, that Joyce sprang up, startled, and ran into the next
                            room. She had never ventured inside before.
                        "Tell me again what you were telling Jules," said the old man.
                            "Seventy-three years, did you say? And how long has she been back in
                            France?"
                        Joyce began to answer his rapid questions, but stopped with a frightened
                            cry as her glance fell on a large portrait hanging over the mantel.
                            "There she is!" she cried, excitedly dancing up and down as she pointed
                            to the portrait. "There she is! That's Number Thirty-one, her very own
                            self."
                        "You are mistaken!" cried the old man, attempting to rise from his chair,
                            but trembling so that he could scarcely pull himself up on his 
                            
                                
                                    "'THAT'S NUMBER THIRTY-ONE.'"
                                
                            
                            
                             feet. "That is a picture of my mother,
                            and Desire is dead; long dead."
                        "But it is exactly like Number Thirty-one,--I mean
                            Madame Dsir," persisted Joyce.
                        Monsieur looked at her wildly from under his shaggy brows, and then,
                            turning away, began to pace up and down the room. "I had a sister once,"
                            he began. "She would have been seventy-three this month, and her name
                            was Desire."
                        Joyce stood motionless in the middle of the room, wondering what was
                            coming next. Suddenly turning with a violence that made her start, he
                            cried, "No, I never can forgive! She has been dead to me nearly a
                            lifetime. Why did you tell me this, child? Out of my sight! What is it
                            to me if she is homeless and alone? Go! Go!"
                        He waved his hands so wildly in motioning her away, that Joyce ran out of
                            the room and banged the door behind her.
                        "What do you suppose is the matter with him ?" asked Jules, in a
                            frightened whisper, as they listened to his heavy tread, back and forth,
                            back and forth, in the next room.
                        Joyce shook her head. "I don't know for 
                            sure," she answered, hesitatingly, "but I be. lieve that he is going
                            crazy."
                        Jules's eyes opened so wide that Joyce wished she had not frightened him.
                            "Oh, you know that I didn't mean it," she said, reassuringly. The heavy
                            tread stopped, and the children looked at each other.
                        "What can he be doing now?" Jules asked, anxiously.
                        Joyce tiptoed across the room, and peeped through the keyhole. "He is
                            sitting down now, by the table, with his head on his arms. He looks as
                            if he might be crying about something."
                        "I wish he didn't feel bad," said Jules, with a swift rush of pity. "He
                            has been so good to me ever since he sent Brossard away. Sometimes I
                            think that he must feel as much alone in the world as I do, because all
                            his family are dead, too. Before I broke my leg I was making him a
                            little Christmas tree, so that he need not feel left out when we had the
                            big one. I was getting mistletoe for it when I fell. I can't finish it
                            now, but there's five pieces of candle on it, and I'll get Clotilde to
                            light them while the fte is going on, so that I'll not miss the big  tree so much. Oh, nobody knows how much I
                            want to go to that fete! Sometimes it seems more than I can bear to have
                            to stay away."
                        "Where is your tree?" asked Joyce. "May I see it?"
                        Jules pointed to the closet. "It's in there," he said, proudly. "I
                            trimmed it with pieces that Marie swept up to burn. Oh, shut the door!
                            Quick!" he cried, excitedly, as a step was heard in the hall. "I don't
                            want anybody to see it before the time comes."
                        The step was Henri's. He had come to say that Marie was waiting to take
                            mademoiselle home. Joyce was glad of the interruption. She could not say
                            anything in praise of the poor little tree, and she knew that Jules
                            expected her to. She felt relieved that Henri's presence made it
                            impossible for her to express any opinion.
                        She bade Jules good-by gaily, but went home with such a sober little face
                            that Cousin Kate began to question her about her visit. Madame, sitting
                            by the window with her embroidery, frame, heard the account also.
                            Several times she looked significantly across at Cousin Kate, over the
                            child's head.
                        
                        "Joyce," said Cousin Kate, "you have had so little outdoor exercise since
                            Jules's accident that it would be a good thing for you to run around in
                            the garden awhile before dark."
                        Joyce had not seen madame's glances, but she felt vaguely that Cousin
                            Kate was making an excuse to get rid of her. She was disappointed, for
                            she thought that her account of monsieur's queer actions and Jules's
                            little tree would have made a greater impression on her audience. She
                            went out the paths with her hands in her jacket pockets, and
                            her red tam-o'shanter pulled down over her eyes. The big white cat
                            followed her, ran on ahead, and then stopped, arching its back as if
                            waiting for her to stroke it. Taking no notice of it, Joyce turned aside
                            to the pear-tree and climbed up among the highest branches.
                        
                        The cat rubbed against the tree, mewing and purring by turns, then sprang
                            up in the tree after her. She took the warm, furry creature in her arms
                            and began talking to it.
                        "Oh, Solomon," she said, "what do you suppose is the matter over there?
                            My poor old lady must be monsieur's sister, or shd couldn't have looked
                            exactly like that picture, and he would not have acted so queerly. What
                            do you suppose it is that he can never forgive? Why did he call me in
                            there and then drive me out in such a crazy way, and tramp around the
                            room, and put his head down on his arms as if he were crying?"
                        Solomon purred louder and closed his eyes.
                        "Oh, you dear, comfortable old thing," exclaimed Joyce, giving the cat a
                            shake. "Wake up and take some interest in what I am saying. I wish you
                            were as smart as Puss in Boots; then maybe you could find out what is
                            the matter. How I wish fairy tales could be true! I'd say 'Giant
                            scissors, right the wrong and open the gate that's been shut so long.'
                            There! Did you hear that, Solomon Grville? I said a rhyme right off
                            without waiting to make it up. Then the scissors would leap  down and cut the misunderstanding or
                            trouble or whatever it is, and the gate would fly open, and there the
                            brother and sister would meet each other. All the unhappy years would be
                            forgotten, and they'd take each other by the hand, just as they did when
                            they were little children, Martin and Dsir, and go into the old home
                            together,--on Christmas Day, in the morning."
                        Joyce was half singing her words now, as she rocked the cat back and
                            forth in her arms. "And then the scissors would bring Jules a
                            magnificent big tree, and he'd never be afraid of his uncle any more.
                            Oh, they'd all have such a happy time on Christmas Day, in the
                            morning!"
                        Joyce had fully expected to be homesick all during the holidays; but now
                            she was so absorbed in other people's troubles, and her day-dreams to
                            make everybody happy, that she forgot all about herself. She fairly
                            bubbled over with the peace and good-will of the approaching
                            Christmas-tide, and rocked the cat back and forth in the pear-tree to
                            the tune of a happy old-time carol.
                        A star or two twinkled out through the 
                            gloaming, and, looking up beyond them through the infinite stretches of
                            space, Joyce thought of a verse that she and Jack had once learned
                            together, one rainy Sunday at her Grandmother Ware's, sitting on a
                            little stool at the old lady's feet:
                        "Behold thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and
                            outstretched arm, and there is nothing too hard for
                                thee." Her heart gave a bound at the thought. Why should she be
                            sitting there longing for fairy tales to be true, when the great Hand
                            that had set the stars to swinging could bring anything to pass; could
                            even open that long-closed gate and bring the brother and sister
                            together again, and send happiness to little Jules?
                        Joyce lifted her eyes again and looked up, out past the stars. "Oh, if
                            you please, God," she whispered, "for the little Christ-child's
                            sake."
                        When Joyce went back to the house, Cousin Kate sat in the drawing-room
                            alone. Madame had gone over to see Jules, and did not return until long
                            after dark. Berth had been in three times to ask monsieur if dinner
                            should be served, before they heard her ring at the  gate. When she finally came, there was such an air of
                            mystery about her that Joyce was puzzled. All that next morning, too,
                            the day before Christmas, it seemed to Joyce as if something unusual
                            were afloat. Everybody in the house was acting strangely.
                        Madame and Cousin Kate did not come home to lunch. She had been told that
                            she must not go to see Jules until afternoon, and the doors of the room
                            where the Christmas tree was kept had all been carefully locked. She
                            thought that the morning never would pass. It was nearly three o'clock
                            when she started over to see Jules. To her great surprise, as she ran
                            lightly up the stairs to his room, she saw her Cousin Kate hurrying
                            across the upper hall, with a pile of rose-colored silk curtains in her
                            arms.
                        Jules tried to raise himself up in bed as Joyce entered, forgetting all
                            about his broken leg in his eagerness to tell the news. "Oh, what do you
                            think!" he cried. "They said that I might be the one to tell you. She
                                is Uncle Martin's sister, the old woman you told
                            about yesterday, and he is going to bring her home to-morrow."
                        
                        Joyce sank into a chair with a little gasp at the suddenness of his news.
                            She had not expected this beautiful ending of her day-dreams to be
                            brought about so soon, although she had hoped that it would be
                            sometime.
                        "How did it all happen?" she cried, with a beaming face. "Tell me about
                            it! Quick!"
                        "Yesterday afternoon madame came over soon after you left. She gave me my
                            wine jelly, and then went into Uncle Martin's room, and talked and
                            talked for the longest time. After she had gone he did not eat any
                            dinner, and I think that he must have sat up all night, for I heard him
                            walking around every time that I waked up. Very early this morning,
                            madame came back again, and M. Grville was with her. They drove with
                            Uncle Martin to the Little Sisters of the Poor. I don't know what
                            happened out there, only that Aunt Dsir is to be brought home
                            to-morrow.
                        "Your Cousin Kate was with them when they came back, and they had brought
                            all sorts of things with them from Tours. She is in there now, making
                            Aunt Dsir's room look like it did when she was a girl."
                        "Oh, isn't it lovely!" exclaimed Joyce. "It  is better than all the fairy tales that I have ever read or
                            heard,--almost too good to be true!" Just then Cousin Kate called her,
                            and she ran across the hall. Standing in the doorway, she looked all
                            around the freshly furnished room, that glowed with the same soft, warm
                            pink that colors the heart of a shell.
                        "How beautiful!" cried Joyce, glancing from the rose on the
                            dressing-table to the soft curtains of the windows, which all opened
                            towards the morning sun. "What a change it will be from that big bare
                            dormitory with its rows of narrow little cots." She tiptoed around the
                            room, admiring everything, and smiling over the happiness in store for
                            poor old Number Thirty-one, when she should find herself in the midst of
                            such loveliness.
                        Joyce's cup of pleasure was so full, that it brimmed over when they
                            turned to leave the room. Cousin Kate slipped an arm around her, and
                            kissed her softly on the forehead.
                        "You dear little fairy tale lover," she said. " Do you know that it is
                            because of you that this desert has blossomed ? If you had never made
                            all those visits to the Little Sisters of the Poor, and had never won
                            old Madame Dsir's  love and confidence
                            by your sympathy, if you had never told Jules the story of the giant
                            scissors, and wished so loud that you could fly to her rescue, old
                            monsieur would never have known that his sister is living. Even then, I
                            doubt if he would have taken this step, and brought her back home to
                            live, if your stories of your mother and the children had not brought
                            his own childhood back to him. He said that he used to sit there hour
                            after hour, and hear you talk of your life at home, until some of its
                            warmth and love crept into his own frozen old heart, and thawed out its
                            selfishness and pride."
                        Joyce lifted her radiant face, and looked towards the half opened window,
                            as she caught the sound of chimes. Across the Loire came the deep-toned
                            voice of a cathedral bell, ringing for vespers.
                        "Listen!" she cried. "Peace on earth,--good-will--oh, Cousin Kate! It
                            really does seem to say it! My Christmas has begun the day before."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X.
                        
                            CHRISTMAS.
                        
                        LONG before the Christmas dawn was bright enough to
                            bring the blue parrots into plain view on the walls of Joyce's room, she
                            had climbed out of bed to look for her "messages from Nol." The night
                            before, following the old French custom, she had set her little slippers
                            just outside the threshold. Now, candle in hand, she softly slipped to
                            the door and peeped out into the hall. Her first eager glance showed
                            that they were full.
                        Climbing back into her warm bed, she put the candle on the table beside
                            it, and began emptying the slippers. They were filled with bonbons and
                            all sorts of little trifles, such as she and Jules had admired in the
                            gay shop windows. On the top of one madame had laid a slender silver
                            pencil, and monsieur a pretty purse. In the other was a pair of little
                            wooden shoes, fashioned like the ones that Jules had  worn when she first knew him. They were
                            only half as long as her thumb, and wrapped in a paper on which was
                            written that Jules himself had whittled them out for her, with Henri's
                            help and instructions.
                        "What little darlings!" exclaimed Joyce. "I hope he will think as much of
                            the scrapbook that I made for him as I do of these. I know that he will
                            be pleased with the big microscope that Cousin Kate bought for him."
                        She spread all the things out on the table, and gave the slippers a final
                            shake. A red morocco case, no larger than half a dollar, fell out of the
                            toe of one of them. Inside the case was a tiny buttonhole watch, with
                            its wee hands pointing to six o'clock. It was the smallest watch that
                            Joyce had ever seen, Cousin Kate's gift. Joyce could hardly keep back a
                            little squeal of delight. She wanted to wake up everybody on the place
                            and show it. Then she wished that she could be back in the brown house,
                            showing it to her mother and the children. For a moment, as she thought
                            of them, sharing the pleasure of their Christmas stockings without her,
                            a great wave of homesickness swept over her, and she lay back on  the pillow with that miserable, far-away
                            feeling that, of all things, makes one most desolate.
                        Then she heard the rapid "tick, tick, tick, tick," of the little watch,
                            and was comforted. She had not realized before that time could go so
                            fast. Now thirty seconds were gone; then sixty. At this rate it could
                            not be such a very long time before they would be packing their trunks
                            to start home; so Joyce concluded not to make herself unhappy by longing
                            for the family, but to get as much pleasure as possible out of this
                            strange Christmas abroad.
                        That little watch seemed to make the morning fly. She looked at it at
                            least twenty times an hour. She had shown it to every one in the house,
                            and was wishing that she could take it over to Jules for him to see,
                            when Monsieur Ciseaux's carriage stopped at the gate. He was on his way
                            to the Little Sisters of the Poor, and had come to ask Joyce to drive
                            with him to bring his sister home.
                        He handed her into the carriage as if she had been a duchess, and then
                            seemed to forget that she was beside him; for nothing was said all the
                            way. As the horses spun along the road in the keen morning air, the old
                            man was  busy with his memories, his head
                            dropped forward on his breast. The child watched him, entering into this
                            little drama as sympathetically as if she herself were the forlorn old
                            woman, and this silent, white-haired man at her side were Jack.
                        Sister Denisa came running out to meet them, her face shining and her
                            eyes glistening with tears. "It is for joy that I weep," she exclaimed,
                            " that poor madame should have come to her own again. See the change
                            that has already been made in her by the blessed news."
                        Joyce looked down the corridor as monsieur hurried forward to meet the
                            old lady coming towards them, and to offer his arm. Hope had
                            straightened the bowed figure; joy had put lustre into her dark eyes and
                            strength into her weak frame. She walked with such proud stateliness
                            that the other inmates of the home looked up at her in surprise as she
                            passed. She was no more like the tearful, broken-spirited woman who had
                            lived among them so long, than her threadbare dress was like the elegant
                            mantle which monsieur had brought to fold around her.
                        
                        Joyce had brought a handful of roses to Sister Denisa, who caught them up
                            with a cry of pleasure, and held them against her face as if they
                            carried with them some sweetness of another world.
                        Madame came up then, and, taking the nun in her arms, tried to thank her
                            for all that she had done, but could find no words for a gratitude so
                            deep, and turned away, sobbing.
                        They said good-by to Sister Denisa,--brave Little Sister of the Poor,
                            whose only joy was the pleasure of unselfish service; who had no time to
                            even stand at the gate and be a glad witness of other people's Christmas
                            happiness, but must hurry back to her morning task of dealing out coffee
                            and clean handkerchiefs to two hundred old paupers. No, there were only
                            a hundred and ninety-nine now. Down the streets, across the Loire, into
                            the old village and out again, along the wide Paris road, one of them
                            was going home.
                        The carriage turned and went for a little space between brown fields and
                            closely clipped hedgerows, and then madame saw the windows of her old
                            home flashing back the morning sunlight over the high stone wall. Again
                            the  carriage turned, into the lane this
                            time, and now the sunlight was caught up by the scissors over the gate,
                            and thrown dazzlingly down into their faces.
                        Monsieur smiled as he looked at Joyce, a tender, gentle smile that one
                            would have supposed never could have been seen on those harsh lips. She
                            was almost standing up in the carriage, in her excitement.
                        "Oh, it has come true!" she cried, clasping her hands together. "The
                            gates are really opening at last!"
                        Yes, the Ogre, whatever may have been its name, no longer lived. Its
                            spell was broken, for now the giant scissors no longer barred the way.
                            Slowly the great gate swung open, and the carriage passed through. Joyce
                            sprang out and ran on ahead to open the door. Hand in hand, just as when
                            they were little children, Martin and Dsir, this white-haired brother
                            and sister went back to the old home together; and it was Christmas Day,
                            in the morning.
                        At five o'clock that evening the sound of Gabriel's accordeon went
                            echoing up and down the garden, and thirty little children 
                             were marching to its music along the paths, between the rows
                            of blooming laurel. Joyce understood, now, why the room where the
                            Christmas tree stood had been kept so carefully locked. For two days
                            that room had been empty and the tree had been standing in Monsieur
                            Ciseaux's parlor. Cousin Kate and madame and Berth and Marie and
                            Gabriel had all been over there, busily at work, and neither she nor
                            Jules had suspected what was going on down-stairs.
                        Now she marched with the others, out of the garden and across the road,
                            keeping time to the music of the wheezy old accordeon that Gabriel
                            played so proudly. Surely every soul, in all that long procession filing
                            through the gate of the giant scissors, belonged to the 
                             kingdom of loving hearts and gentle hands; for they were all
                            children who passed through, or else mothers who carried in their arms
                            the little ones who, but for these faithful arms, must have missed this
                            Nol fete.
                        Jules had been carried down-stairs and laid on a couch in the corner of
                            the room where he could see the tree to its best advantage. Beside him
                            sat his great-aunt, Dsir, dressed in a satin gown of silvery gray that
                            had been her mother's, and looking as if she had just stepped out from
                            the frame of the portrait up-stairs. She held Jules's hand in hers, as
                            if with it she grasped the other Jules, the little brother of the olden
                            days for whom this child had been named. And she told him stories of his
                            grandfather and his father. Then Jules found that  this Aunt Dsir had known his mother; had once sat on the
                            vine-covered porch while he ran after fireflies on the lawn in his
                            little white dress; had heard the song the voice still sang to him in
                            his dreams:
                        
                            "Till the stars and the angels come to keep
                            Their watch where my baby lies fast asleep."
                        
                        When she told him this, with her hand stroking his and folding it tight
                            with many tender little claspings, he felt that he had found a part of
                            his old home, too, as well as Aunt Dsir.
                        One by one the tapers began to glow on the great tree, and when it was
                            all ablaze the doors were opened for the children to flock in. They
                            stood about the room, bewildered at first, for not one of them had ever
                            seen such a sight before; a tree that glittered and sparkled and shone,
                            that bore stars and rainbows and snow wreaths and gay toys. At first
                            they only drew deep, wondering breaths, and looked at each other with
                            shining eyes. It was all so beautiful and so strange.
                        Joyce flew here and there, helping to distribute the gifts, feeling her
                            heart grow warmer  and warmer as she
                            watched the happy children. "My little daughter never had anything like
                            that in all her life," said one grateful mother as Joyce laid a doll in
                            the child's outstretched arms. "She'll never forget this to her dying
                            day, nor will any of us, dear mademoiselle! We knew not what it was to
                            have so beautiful a Nol!"
                        When the last toy had been stripped from the branches, it was Cousin
                            Kate's turr. to be surprised. At a signal from madame, the children
                            began circling around the tree, singing a song that the sisters at the
                            village school had taught them for the occasion. It was a happy little
                            song about the green pine-tree, king of all trees and monarch of the
                            woods, because of the crown he yearly wears at Noel. At the close every
                            child came up to madame and Cousin Kate and Joyce, to say "Thank you,
                            madame," and " Good night," in the politest way possible.
                        Gabriel's accordeon led them out again, and the music, growing fainter
                            and fainter, died away in the distance; but in every heart that heard it
                            had been born a memory whose music could never be lost,--the memory of
                            one happy Christmas.
                        
                        Joyce drew a long breath when it was all over, and, with her arm around
                            Madame D6sire's shoulder, smiled down at Jules.
                        "How beautifully it has all ended!" she exclaimed. "I am sorry that we
                            have come to the place to say' and they all lived happily ever after,'
                            for that means that it is time to shut the book."
                        "Dear heart," murmured Madame Desire, drawing the child closer to her,
                            "it means that a far sweeter story is just beginning, and it is you who
                            have opened the book for me."
                        Joyce flushed with pleasure, saying, "I thought this Christmas would be
                            so lonely; but it has been the happiest of my life."
                        "And mine, too," said Monsieur Ciseaux from the other side of Jules's
                            couch. He took the little fellow's hand in his. "They told me about the
                            tree that you prepared for me. I have been up to look at it, and now I
                            have come to thank you." To the surprise of every one in the room,
                            monsieur bent over and kissed the flushed little face on the pillow.
                            Jules reached up, and, putting his arms around his uncle's neck, laid
                            his cheek a moment 
                            
                                "HE TOOK THE LITTLE FELLOW'S HAND IN HIS."
                            
                            
                             against the face of his stern old
                            kinsman. Not a word was said, but in that silent caress every barrier of
                            coldness and reserve was forever broken down between them. So the little
                            Prince came into his kingdom,--the kingdom of love and real home
                            happiness.
                        It is summer now, and far away in the little brown house across the seas
                            Joyce thinks of her happy winter in France and the friends that she
                            found through the gate of the giant scissors. And still those scissors
                            hang over the gate, and may be seen to this day, by any one who takes
                            the trouble to walk up the hill from the little village that lies just
                            across the river Loire, from the old town of Tours.
                    
                    
                        THE END.
                    
                
                
                
                
                     TWO LITTLE KNIGHTS OF KENTUCKY
                    
                    
                    	DEDICATION
                        
                            TO MARGARET AND ALBION, MARY, HELEN, LURA AND ROSE, WILLIAM AND GEORGE
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        CONTENTS
                        
                            CHAPTERPAGE
                            I. Two TRAMPS AND A BEAR11
                            II. GINGER AND THE BOYS31
                            III. THE VALENTINE PARTY51
                            IV. A FIRE AND A PLAN76
                            V. JONESY'S BENEFIT98
                            VI. THE LITTLE COLONEL'S TWO RESCUES124
                            VII. A GAME OF INDIAN143
                            VIII. "FAIRCHANCE"169
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        PLANS.
                    
                    
                    
                        TWO LITTLE KNIGHTS OF KENTUCKY.
                        CHAPTER I.
                        TWO TRAMPS AND A BEAR.
                        IT was the coldest Saint Valentine's eve that Kentucky
                            had known in twenty years. In Lloydsborough Valley a thin sprinkling of
                            snow whitened the meadows, enough to show the footprints of every hungry
                            rabbit that loped across them; but there were not many such tracks. It
                            was so cold that the rabbits, for all their thick fur, were glad to run
                            home and hide. Nobody cared to be out long in such weather, and except
                            now and then, when an ice-cutter's wagon creaked up from some pond  to the frozen pike, the wintry stillness
                            was unbroken.
                        On the north side of the little country depot a long row of icicles hung
                            from the eaves. Even the wind seemed to catch its breath there, and
                            hurry on with a shiver that reached to the telegraph wires overhead. It
                            shivered down the long stovepipe, too, inside the waiting-room. The
                            stove had been kept red-hot all that dull gray afternoon, but the
                            window-panes were still white with heavy frost-work.
                        Half an hour before the five o'clock train was due from the city, two
                            boys came running up the railroad track with their skates in their
                            hands. They were handsome, sturdy little fellows, so well buttoned up in
                            their leather leggins and warm reefer overcoats that they scarcely felt
                            the cold. Their cheeks were red as winter apples, from skating against
                            the wind, and they were almost breathless after their long run up-hill
                            to the depot. Racing across the platform, they bumped against the door
                            at the same instant, burst it noisily open, and slammed it behind them
                            with a bang that shook the entire building. 
                        
                        "What kind of a cyclone has struck us now?" growled the ticket agent, who
                            was in the next room. Then he frowned, as the first noise was followed
                            by the rasping sound of a bench being dragged out of a corner, to a
                            place nearer the stove. It scraped the bare floor every inch of the way,
                            with a jarring motion that made the windows rattle.
                        Stretching himself half-way out of his chair, the ticket agent pushed up
                            the wooden slide of the little window far enough for him to peep into
                            the waiting-room. Then he hastily shoved it down again.
                        "It's the two little chaps who came out from the city last week," he said
                            to the station-master. "The MacIntyre boys. You'd think they own the
                            earth from the way they dash in and take possession of things."
                        The station-master liked boys. He stroked his gray beard and chuckled.
                            "Well, Meyers," he said, slowly, "when you come to think of it, their
                            family always has owned a pretty fair slice of the earth and its good
                            things, and those same little lads have travelled nearly all over it,
                            although the oldest can't be more than ten. It would be a wonder if they
                            didn't have that  lordly way of making
                            themselves at home wherever they go."
                        "Will they be out here all winter?" asked Meyers, who was a newcomer in
                            Lloydsborough.
                        "Yes, their father and mother have gone to Florida, and left them here
                            with their grandmother MacIntyre."
                        "I imagine the old lady has her hands full," said Meyers, as a sound of
                            scuffling in the next room reached him.
                        "Oh, I don't know about that, now," said the station-master. "They're
                            noisy children, to be sure, and just boiling over with mischief, but if
                            you can find any better-mannered little gentlemen anywhere in the State
                            when there's ladies around, I'd like you to trot 'em out. They came down
                            to the train with their aunt this morning, Miss Allison MacIntyre, and
                            their politeness to her was something pretty to see, I can tell you,
                            sir."
                        There was a moment's pause, in which the boys could be heard laughing in
                            the next room.
                        "No," said the station-master again, "I'm thinking it's not the boys who
                            will be keeping Mrs. Maclntyre's hands full this winter, so  much as that little granddaughter of hers
                            that came here last fall,-little Virginia Dudley. You can guess what's
                            she like from her nickname. They call her Ginger. She had always lived
                            at some army post out West, until her father, Cap. tain Dudley, was
                            ordered to Cuba. He was wounded down there, and has never been en.
                            tirely well since. When he found they were going to keep him there all
                            winter, he sent for his wife last September, and there was nothing to do
                            with Virginia but to bring her back to Kentucky to her grandmother."
                        "Oh, she's the little girl who went in on the train this morning with
                            Miss Allison," said the ticket agent. "I suppose the boys have come down
                            to meet them. They'll have a long time to wait."
                        While this conversation was going on behind the ticket window, the two
                            boys stretched themselves out on a long bench beside the stove. The warm
                            room made them feel drowsy after their violent out-door exercise. Keith,
                            the younger one, yawned several times, and finally lay down on the bench
                            with his cap for a pillow. He was eight years old, but curled up in that
                            fashion, with his long eyelashes resting on his  red cheeks, and one plump little hand tucked under his
                            chin, he looked much younger.
                        "Wake me up, Malcolm, when it's time foi Aunt Allison's train," he said
                            to his brother. "Ginger would never stop teasing me if she should find
                            me asleep."
                        Malcolm unbuttoned his reefer, and, after much tugging, pulled out a
                            handsome little gold watch. "Oh, there's a long time to wait!" he
                            exclaimed. "We need not have left the pond so early, for the train will
                            not be here for twenty-five minutes. I believe I'll curl up here myself,
                            till then. I hope they won't forget the valentines we sent for."
                        The room was very still for a few minutes. There was no sound at all
                            except the crackling of the fire and the shivering of the wind in the
                            long stovepipe. Then some one turned the door-knob so cautiously and
                            slowly that it unlatched without a sound.
                        It was the cold air rushing into the room as the door was pushed ajar
                            that aroused the boys. After one surprised glance they sat up, for the
                            man, who was slipping into the room as stealthily as a burglar, was the
                            worst-looking tramp they had ever seen. There was a long, ugly red scar
                                 across his face, running from his
                            cheek to the middle of his forehead, and partly closing one eye. Perhaps
                             it was the scar that gave him such a queer, evil sort of an
                            expression; even without it he would have been a repulsivesight. His
                            clothes were dirty and ragged, and his breath had frozen in icicles on
                            his stubby red beard.
                        Behind him came a boy no larger than Keith, but with a hard, shrewd look
                            in his hungry little face that made one feel he had lived a long time
                            and learned more than was good for him to know. It was plain to  be seen that he was nearly starved, and
                            suf. fering from the intense cold. His bare toes peeped through their
                            ragged shoes, and he had no coat. A thin cotton shirt and a piece of an
                            old gray horse-blanket was all that protected his shoulders from the icy
                            wind of that February afternoon. He, too, crept in noiselessly, as if
                            expecting to be ordered out at the first sound, and then turned to coax
                            in some animal that was tied to one end of the rope which he held.
                        Malcolm and Keith looked on with interest, and sprang up excitedly as the
                            animal finally shuffled in far enough for the boy to close the door
                            behind it. It was a great, shaggy bear, taller than the man when it sat
                            up on its haunches beside him.
                        The tramp looked uneasily around the room for an instant, but seeing no
                            one save the two children, ventured nearer the stove. The boy followed
                            him, and the bear shuffled along behind them both, limping painfully.
                            Not a word was said for a moment. The boys were casting curious glances
                            at the three tramps who had come in as noiselessly as if they had snowed
                            down, and the man was watching the boys 
                            TWO TRAMPS AND A BEAR. with shrewd eyes. He did not seem to be looking
                            at them, but at the end of his survey he could have described them
                            accurately. He had noticed every detail of their clothing, from their
                            expensive leather leggins to their fur-lined gloves. He glanced at
                            Malcolm's watch-chain and the fine skates which Keith swung back and
                            forth by a strap, and made up his mind, correctly, too, that the pockets
                            of these boys rarely lacked the jingle of money which they could spend
                            as they pleased.
                        When he turned away to hold his hands out toward the stove, he rubbed
                            them together with satisfaction, for he had discovered more than that.
                            He knew from their faces that they were trusting little souls, who would
                            believe any story he might tell them, if he appealed to their sympathies
                            in the right way. He was considering how to begin, when Malcolm broke
                            the silence.
                        "Is that a trained bear ?"
                        The man nodded.
                        "What can it do?" was the next question.
                        "Oh, lots of things," answered the man, in a low, whining voice. "Drill
                            like a soldier, and dance, and ride a stick." He kept his shifty  eyes turning constantly toward the door,
                            as if afraid some one might overhear him.
                        "I'd put him through his paces for you young gen'lemen," he said, "but he
                            got his foot hurt for one thing, and another is, if we went to showing
                            off, we might be ordered to move on. This is the'first time we've
                            smelled a fire in twenty-four hours, and we ain't in no hurry to leave
                            it, I can tell you."
                        "Will he bite?" asked Keith, going up to the huge bear, which had
                            stretched itself out comfortably on the floor.
                        "Not generally. He's a good-tempered brute, most times like a lamb. But
                            he ain't had nothing to eat all day, so it wouldn't be surprising if he
                            was a bit snappish."
                        "Nothing to eat!" echoed Keith. "You poor old thing!" Going a step
                            closer, he put out his hand and stroked the bear, as if it had been a
                            great dog.
                        "Oh, Malcolm, just feel how soft his fur is, like mamma's beaver jacket.
                            And he has the kindest old face. Poor old fellow, is you hungry? Never
                            mind, Keith'll get you some thing to eat pretty soon."
                        Putting his short, plump arms around the 
                            animal's neck, he hugged it lovingly up to him. A cunning gleam came
                            into the man's eyes. He saw that he had gained the younger boy's
                            sympathy, and he wanted Malcolm's also.
                        "Is your home near here, my little gen'leman?" he asked, in a friendly
                            tone.
                        "No, we live in the city," answered Malcolm, "but my grandmother's place,
                            where we are staying, is not far from here." He was stroking the bear
                            with one hand as he spoke, and hunting in his pocket with the other,
                            hoping to find some stray peanuts to give it.
                        "Then maybe you know of some place where we could stay to-night. Even a
                            shed to crawl into would keep us from freezing. It's an awful cold night
                            not to have a roof over your head, or a crust to gnaw on, or a spark of
                            fire to keep life in your body."
                        "Maybe they'd let you stay in the waiting-room," suggested Malcolm." It
                            is always good and warm in here. I'll ask the station-master. He's a
                            friend of mine."
                        "Oh, no! No, don't!" exclaimed the tramp, hastily, pulling his old hat
                            farther over his forehead, as if to hide the scar, and looking uneasily
                            around. "I wouldn't have you do that for anything  thing. I've had dealings with such folks before, and I know
                            how they'd treat me. I thought maybe there was a barn or a hay-shed or
                            something on your grandmother's place, where we could lay up for repairs
                            a couple of days. The beast needs a rest. Its foot's sore; and Jonesy
                            there is pretty near to lung fever, judging from the way he coughs." He
                            nodded toward the boy, who had placed his chair as close to the stove as
                            possible. The child's face was drawn into a pucker by the tingling pains
                            in his half-frozen feet, and his efforts to keep from coughing.
                        Malcolm looked at him steadily. He had read about boys who were homeless
                            and hungry and cold, but he had never really understood how much it
                            meant to be all that. This was the first time in his ten short years
                            that he had ever come close to real poverty. He had seen the swarms of
                            beggars that infest such cities as Naples and Rome, and had tossed them
                            coppers because that seemed a part of the programme in travelling. He
                            had not really felt sorry for them, for they did not seem to mind it.
                            They sat on the steps in the warm Italian sunshine, and waited for
                            tourists to throw them money,  as
                            comfortably as toads sit blinking at flies. But this was different. A
                            wave of pity swept through Malcolm's generous little heart as he looked
                            at Jonesy, and the man watching him shrewdly saw it.
                        "Of course," he whined, "a little gen'leman like you don't know what it
                            is to go from town to town and have every door shut in your face. You
                            don't think that this is a hard-hearted, stingy old world, because it
                            has given you the cream of everything. But if you'd never had anything
                            all your life but other people's scraps and leavings, and you hadn't any
                            home or friends or money, and was sick besides, you'd think things
                            wasn't very evenly divided. Wouldn't you now ? You'd think it wasn't
                            right that some should have all that heart can wish, and others not
                            enough to keep soul and body together. If you'd a-happened to be Jonesy,
                            and Jonesy had a-happened to 'a' been you, I reckon you'd feel it was
                            pretty tough to see such a big difference between you. It doesn't seem
                            fair now, does it?"
                        "No," admitted Malcolm, faintly. He had taken a dislike to the man. He
                            could not have told why, but his child instinct armed him with  a sudden distrust. Still, he felt the
                            force of the whining appeal, and the burden of an obligation to help
                            them seemed laid upon his shoulders.
                        "Grandmother is afraid for anybody to sleep in the barn, on account of
                            fire," he said, after a moment's thought, "and I'm sure she wouldn't let
                            you come into the house without you'd had a bath and some clean clothes.
                            Grandmother is dreadfully particular," he added, hastily, not wanting to
                            be impolite even to a tramp. "Seems to me Keith and I have to spend half
                            our time washing our hands and putting on clean collars."
                        "Oh, I know a place," cried Keith. "There's that empty cabin down by the
                            spring-house. Nobody has lived in it since the new servants' cottage was
                            built. There isn't any furniture in it, but there's a fireplace in one
                            room, and it would be warmer than the barn."
                        "That's just the trick!" exclaimed Malcolm. "We can carry a pile of hay
                            over from the barn for you to sleep on. Aunt Allison will be out on this
                            next train and I'll ask her. I am sure she will let you, because last
                            night, when it was so cold, she said she felt sorry for anything that
                            had to be out in it, even the poor old cedar-trees, with the sleet on
                            their branches.  She said that it was King
                            Lear's own weather, and she could understand how Cordelia felt when she
                            said, 'Mine enemy's dog, though he had bit me, should have
                                stood that night against my fire!' It is just like auntie to
                            feel that way about it, only she's so good to everybody she couldn't
                            have any enemies."
                        Something like a smile moved the tramp's stubby beard. "So she's that
                            kind, is she? Well, if she could have a soft spot for a dog that had bit
                            her, and an enemy's dog at that, it stands to reason that she wouldn't
                            object to some harmless travellers a-sleeping in an empty cabin a couple
                            of nights. S'pose'n you show us the place, sonny, and we'll be moving
                            on." "Oh, it wouldn't be right not to ask her first," exclaimed Malcolm.
                            "She'll be here in such a little while."
                        The man looked uneasy. Presently he walked over to the window and scraped
                            a peep-hole on the frosted pane with his dirty thumbnail. "Sun's down,"
                            he said. "I'd like to get that bear's foot fixed comfortable before it
                            grows any darker. I'd like to mighty well. It'll take some time to heat
                            water to dress it. Is that cabin far from here?"
                        
                        "Not if we go in at the back of the place," said Malcolm." It's just
                            across the meadow, and over a little hill. If we went around by the big
                            front gate it would be a good deal longer."
                        The man shifted uneasily from one foot to another, and complained of
                            being hungry. He was growing desperate. For more reasons than one he did
                            not want to be at the station when the train came in. That long red scar
                            across his face had been described a number of times in the newspapers,
                            and he did not care to be recognised just then.
                        The boys could not have told how it came about, but in a few minutes they
                            were leading the way toward the cabin. The man had persuaded them that
                            it was not at all necessary to wait for their Aunt Allison's permission,
                            and that it was needless to trouble their grandmother. Why should the
                            ladies be bothered about a matter that the boys were old enough to
                            decide? So well had he argued, and so tactfully had he flattered them,
                            that when they took their way across the field, it was with the feeling
                            that they were doing their highest duty in getting these homeless
                            wayfarers to the 
                            
                                "ACROSS THE SNOWY FIELDS"
                            
                            
                             cabin as quickly as possible, on their own
                            responsibility.
                        "We can get back in time to meet the train, if we hurry," said Malcolm,
                            looking at his watch again. "There's still fifteen minutes."
                        No one saw the little procession file out of the waiting-room and across
                            the snowy field, for it was growing dark, and the lamps were lighted and
                            the curtains drawn in the few houses they passed. Malcolm went first,
                            proudly leading the friendly old bear. Jonesy came next beside Keith,
                            and the man shuffled along in the rear, looking around with suspicious
                            glances whenever a twig snapped, or a distant dog barked.
                        As the wind struck against Jonesy's body, he drew the bit of blanket more
                            closely around him, and coughed hoarsely. His teeth were chattering and
                            his lips blue. "You look nearly frozen," said Keith, who, well-clad and
                            well-fed, scarcely felt the cold. "Here! put this on, or you'll be
                            sick." Unbuttoning his thick little reefer, he pulled it off and tied
                            its sleeves around Jonesy's neck.
                        A strange look passed over the face of the man behind them. "Blessed if
                            the little kid  didn't take it off his own
                            back," he muttered. "If any man had ever done that for me--just
                            once--well, maybe, I wouldn't ha' been what I am now!"
                        For a moment, as they reached the top of the hill, bear, boys, and man
                            were outlined blackly against the sky like strange silhouettes. Then
                            they passed over and disappeared in the thick clump of pine-trees, which
                            hid the little cabin from the eyes of the surrounding world.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        GINGER AND THE BOYS.
                        IN less time than one would think possible, a big fire
                            was roaring in the cabin fireplace, water was steaming in the rusty
                            kettle on the crane, and a pile of hay and old carpet lay in one corner,
                            ready to be made into a bed. Keith had made several trips to the
                            kitchen, and came back each time with his hands full.
                        Old Daphne, the cook, never could find it in her heart to refuse "Marse
                            Sydney's" boys anything. They were too much like what their father had
                            been at their age to resist their playful coaxing. She had nursed him
                            when he was a baby, and had been his loyal champion all through his
                            boyhood. Now her black face wrinkled into smiles whenever she heard his
                            name spoken. In her eyes, nobody was quite so near perfection as he,
                            except, perhaps, the fair woman whom he had married.
                        
                        "Kain't nobody in ten States hole a can'le to my Marse Sidney an' his
                            Miss Elise," old Daphne used to say, proudly. "They sut'n'ly is the
                            handsomest couple evah jined togethah, an' the free-handedest. In all
                            they travels by sea or by land they nevah fo'gits ole Daphne. I've got
                            things from every country undah the shinin' sun what they done brung
                            me."
                        Now, all the services she had once been proud to render them were
                            willingly given to their little sons. When Keith came in with a pitiful
                            tale of a tramp who was starving at their very gates, she gave him even
                            more than he asked for, and almost more than he could carry.
                        The bear and its masters were so hungry, and their two little hosts so
                            interested in watching them eat, that they forgot all about going back
                            to meet the train. They did not even hear it whistle when it came
                            puffing into the Valley.
                        As Miss Allison stepped from the car to the station platform, she looked
                            around in vain for the boys who had promised to meet her. Her arms were
                            so full of bundles, as suburban passengers'  usually are, that she could not hold up her long broadcloth skirt, or
                            even turn her handsome fur collar higher over her ears. With a shade of
                            annoyance on her pretty face, she swept across the platform and into the
                            waiting. room, out of the cold.
                        Behind her came a little girl about ten years old, as unlike her as
                            possible, although it was Virginia Dudley's ambition to be exactly like
                            her Aunt Allison. She wanted to be tall, and slender, and grown up; Miss
                            Allison was that, and yet she had kept all her lively girlish ways, and
                            a love of fun that made her charming to everybody, young and old.
                            Virginia longed for wavy brown hair and white hands, and especially for
                            a graceful, easy manner. Her hair was short and black, and her
                            complexion like a gypsy's. She had hard, brown little fists, sharp gray
                            eyes that seemed to see everything at once, and a tongue that was always
                            getting her into trouble. As for the ease of manner, that might come in
                            time, but her stately old grandmother often sighed in secret over
                            Virginia's awkwardness.
                        She stumbled now as she followed the young lady into the waiting-room.
                            Her big, plume-covered  covered hat tipped
                            over one ear, but she, too, had so many bundles, that she could not
                            spare a hand to straighten  it.
                        "Well, Virginia, what do you suppose has become of the boys?" asked her
                            aunt. "They promised to meet us and carry our packages."
                        "I heard them in here about half an hour ago, Miss Allison," said the
                            station-master, who had come in with a lantern. "I s'pose they got tired
                            of waiting. Better leave your things here, hadn't you? I'll watch them.
                            It is mighty slippery walking this evening."  "Oh, thank you, Mr. Mason," she answered, beginning to pile boxes and
                            packages upon a bench. I'll send Pete down for them immedi, ately. Now,
                            Virginia, turn up your coat collar and hold your muff over your nose, or
                            Jack Frost will make an icicle out of you before you are half-way
                            home.
                        They had been in the house some time before the boys remembered their
                            promise to meet them at the station. When they saw how late it was, they
                            started home on the run.
                        "I am fairly aching to tell Ginger about that bear," panted Keith, as
                            they reached the side door. " I am so sorry that we promised the man not
                            to say anything about them being on the place, before he sees us again
                            to-morrow. I wonder why he asked us that."
                        "I don't know," answered Malcolm. "He seemed to have some very good
                            reason, and he talked about it so that it didn't seem right not to
                            promise a little thing like that." "I wish we hadn't, though," said
                            Keith, again.
                        "But it's done now," persisted Malcolm. "We're bound not to tell, and you
                            can't get out of it, for he made us give him our word 'on  the honour of a gentleman;' and that
                            settles it, you know."
                        They were two very dirty boys who clattered up the back stairs, and raced
                            to their room to dress for dinner. Their clothes were covered with
                            hayseed and straw, and their hands and faces were black with soot from
                            the old cabin chimney. They had both helped to build the fire.
                        The lamps had just been lighted in the upper hall, and Virginia came
                            running out from her room when she heard the boys' voices.
                        "Why didn't you meet us at the train?" she began, but stopped as she saw
                            their dirty faces. "Where on earth have you chimney-sweeps been?" she
                            cried.
                        "Oh, about and about," answered Malcolm, teasingly. "Don't you wish you
                            knew?" Virginia shrugged her shoulders, as if she had not the slightest
                            interest in the matter, and held out two packages.
                        "Here are the valentines you sent for. You just ought to see the pile
                            that Aunt Allison bought. We've the best secret about to-morrow that
                            ever was."
                        "So have we," began Keith, but Malcolm clapped a sooty hand over his
                            mouth and pulled  him toward the door of
                            their room. "Come on," he said. " We've barely time to dress for dinner.
                            Don't you know enough to keep still, you little magpie?" he exclaimed,
                            as the door banged behind them. "The only way to keep a secret is not to
                            act like you have one!"
                        Virginia walked slowly back to her room and paused in the doorway,
                            wondering what she could do to amuse herself until dinner-time. It was a
                            queer room for a girl, decorated with flags and Indian trophies and
                            everything that could remind her of the military life she loved, at the
                            far-away army post. There were photographs framed in brass buttons on
                            her dressing-table, and pictures of uniformed officers all over the
                            walls. A canteen and an army cap with a bullet-hole through the crown,
                            hung over her desk, and a battered bugle, that had sounded many a
                            triumphant charge, swung from the corner of her mirror.
                        Each souvenir had a history, and had been given her at parting by some
                            special friend. Every one at the fort had made a pet of Captain Dudley's
                            daughter,--the harum-scarum little Ginger,--who would rather dash across
                            the prairies on her pony, like a wild Comanche  Indian, than play with the finest doll ever imported from
                            Paris.
                        There was a suit in her wardrobe, short skirt, jacket, leggins, and
                            moccasins, all made and beaded by the squaws. It was the gift of the
                            colonel's wife. Mrs. Dudley had hesitated some time before putting it in
                            one of the trunks that was to go back to Kentucky.
                        "You look so much like an Indian now," she said to Virginia. "Your face
                            is so sunburned that I am afraid your grandmother will be scandalised. I
                            don't know what she would say if she knew that I ever allowed you to run
                            so wild. If I had known that you were going back to civilisation I
                            certainly should not have kept your hair cut short, and you should have
                            worn sunbonnets all summer."
                        To Mrs. Dudley's great surprise, her little daughter threw herself into
                            her arms, sobbing, "Oh, mamma! I don't want to go back to Kentucky! Take
                            me to Cuba with you! Please do, or else let me stay here at the post.
                            Everybody will take care of me here! I'll just die if you leave me in
                            Kentucky!"
                        "Why, darling," she said, soothingly, as she wiped her tears away and
                            rocked her back and  forth in her arms, "I
                            thought you have always wanted to see mamma's old home, and the places
                            you have heard so much about. There are all the old toys in the nursery
                            that we had when we were children, and the grape-vine swing in the
                            orchard, and the mill-stream where we fished, and the beech-woods where
                            we had such delightful picnics. I thought it would be so nice for you to
                            do all the same things that made me so happy when I was a child, and go
                            to school in the same old Girls' College and know all the dear old
                            neighbours that I knew. Wouldn't my little girl like that?"
                        "Oh, yes, some, I s'pose," sobbed Virginia, "but I didn't know I'd have
                            to be so--so--everlastingly--civilised!" she wailed. "I don't want to
                            always have to dress just so, and have to walk in a path and be called
                            Virginia all the time. That sounds so stiff and proper. I'd rather stay
                            where people don't mind if I am sunburned and tanned, and won't be
                            scandalised at everything I do. It's so much nicer to be just plain
                            Ginger!"
                        It had been five months, now, since Virginia left Fort Dennis. At first
                            she had locked herself in her room nearly every day, and, with her  40 TWO LITTLE KNIGHTS OF KENTUCKY. face
                            buried in her Indian suit, cried to go back. She missed the gay military
                            life of the army post, as a sailor would miss the sea, or an Alpine
                            shepherd the free air of his snow-capped mountain heights.
                        It was not that she did not enjoy being at her grandmother's. She liked
                            the great gray house whose square corner tower and overhanging vines
                            made it look like an old castle. She liked the comfort and elegance of
                            the big stately rooms, and she had her grandmother's own pride in the
                            old family portraits and the beautiful carved furniture. The negro
                            servants seemed so queer and funny to her that she found them a great
                            source of amusement, and her Aunt Allison planned so many pleasant
                            occupations outside of school-hours that she scarcely had time to get
                            lonesome. But she had a shut-in feeling, like a wild bird in a cage, and
                            sometimes the longing for liberty which her mother had allowed her made
                            her fret against the thousand little proprieties she had to observe.
                            Sometimes when she went tipping over the polished floors of the long
                            drawing room, and caught sight of herself in one of the big mirrors, she
                            felt that she was not herself at  all, but
                            somebody in a story. The Virginia in the looking-glass seemed so very,
                            very civilised. More than once, after one of these meetings with herself
                            in the mirror, she dashed up-stairs, locked her door, and dressed
                            herself in her Indian suit. Then in her noiseless moccasins she danced
                            the wildest of war-dances, whispering shrilly between her teeth, "Now
                            I'm Ginger! Now I'm Ginger! And I won't be dressed up,
                            and I won't learn my lessons, and I won't be a little lady, and I'll run away and go back to Fort
                            Dennis the very first chance I get!"
                        Usually she was ashamed of these outbursts afterwards, for it always
                            happened that after each one she found her Aunt Allison had planned
                            something especially pleasant for her entertainment. Miss Allison felt
                            sorry for the lonely child, who had never been separated from her father
                            and mother before, so she devoted her time to her as much as possible,
                            telling her stories and entering into her plays and pleasures as if they
                            had both been the same age.
                        Since the boys had come, Virginia had not had a single homesick moment.
                            While she was at school in the primary department of  the Girls' College, Malcolm and Keith were
                            reciting their lessons to the old minister who lived across the road
                            from Mrs. MacIntyre's. They were all free about the same hour, and even
                            on the coldest days played out-of-doors from lunch-time until dark.
                        To-night Virginia had so many experiences to tell them of her day in town
                            that the boys seemed unusually long in dressing. She was so impatient
                            for them to hear her news that she could not settle down to anything,
                            but walked restlessly around the room, wishing they would hurry.
                        "Oh, I haven't sorted my valentines!" she exclaimed, presently, picking
                            up a fancy box which she had tossed on the bed when she first came in.
                            "I'll take them down to the library."
                        There was no one in the room when she peeped in. It looked so bright and
                            cosy with the great wood fire blazing on the hearth and the
                            rose-coloured light falling from its softly shaded lamps, that she
                            forgot the coldness of the night outside. Sitting down on a pile of
                            cushions at one end of the hearth-rug, she began sorting her purchases,
                            trying to decide to whom each one should be sent.
                        
                        "The prettiest valentine of all must go to poor papa," she said to
                            herself, "'cause he's been so sick away down there in Cuba; and this one
                            that's got the little girl on it in a  blue dress shall be for
                            my dear, sweet mamma, 'cause it will make her think of me."
                        For a moment, a mist seemed to blur the gay blue dress of the little
                            valentine girl as Virginia looked at her, thinking of her far-away
                            mother. She drew her hand hastily across her eyes and went on:
                        
                        "This one is for Sergeant Jackson out at Fort Dennis, and the biggest
                            one, with the doves, for Colonel Philips and his wife. Dear me! I wish I
                            could send one to every officer and soldier out there. They were all so
                            good to me!"
                        The pile of lace-paper cupids and hearts and arrows and roses slipped
                            from her lap, down to the rug, as she clasped her hands around her knees
                            and looked into the fire. She wished that she could be back again at the
                            fort, long enough to live one of those beautiful old days from reveille
                            to taps. How she loved the bugle-calls and the wild thrill the band gave
                            her, when it struck up a burst of martial music, and the troops went
                            dashing by! How she missed the drills and the dress parades; her rides
                            across the open prairie on her pony, beside her father; how she missed
                            the games she used to play with the other children at the fort on the
                            long summer evenings!
                        Something more than a mist was gathering in her eyes now. Two big tears
                            were almost ready to fall when the door opened and Mrs. MacIntyre came
                            in. In Virginia's eyes she was the most beautiful grandmother any one
                            ever had. She  was not so tall as her
                            daughter Allison, and in that respect fell short of the little girl's
                            ideal, but her hair, white as snow, curled around her face in the same
                            soft, pretty fashion, and by every refined feature she showed her
                            kinship to the aristocratic old faces which looked down from the family
                            portraits in the hall.
                        "I couldn't be as stately and dignified as she is if I practised a
                            thousand years," thought Virginia, scrambling up from the pile of
                            cushions to roll a chair nearer the fire. As she did so, her heel caught
                            in the rug, and she fell back in an awkward little heap.
                        "The more haste, the less grace, my dear," said her grandmother, kindly,
                            thanking her for the proffered chair. Virginia blushed, wondering why
                            she always appeared so awkward in her grandmother's presence. She envied
                            the boys because they never seemed embarrassed or ill at ease before
                            her.
                        While she was picking up her valentines the boys came in. If two of the
                            cavalier ancestors had stepped down from their portrait frames just
                            then, they could not have come into the room in a more charming manner
                            than Malcolm and Keith. Their faces were shining, their  linen spotless, and they came up to kiss
                            their grandmother's cheek with an old-time courtliness that delighted
                            her.
                        "I am sure that there are no more perfect gentlemen in all Kentucky than
                            my two little lads," she said, fondly, with an approving pat of Keith's
                            hand as she held him a moment.
                        Virginia, who had seen them half an hour before, tousled and dirty, and
                            had been arrayed against them in more than one hot quarrel where they
                            had been anything but chivalrous, let slip a faintly whistled cuckoo!"
                        The boys darted a quick glance in her direction, but she was bending over
                            the valentines with a very serious face, which never changed its
                            expression till her Aunt Allison came in and the boys began their
                            apologies for not meeting her at the train. Their only excuse was that
                            they had forgotten all about it.
                        Virginia spelled on her fingers: "I dare you to tell what made your faces
                            so black!" Keith's only answer was to thrust his tongue out at her
                            behind his grandmother's back. Then he ran to hold the door open for the
                            ladies to pass out to dinner, with all the grace of a young
                            Chesterfield.
                        
                        When dinner was over and they were back in the library, Miss Allison
                            opened a box of tiny heart-shaped envelopes, and began addressing them.
                            As she took up her pen she said, merrily: "Now you may
                            tell our secret, Virginia."
                        "I was going to make you guess for about an hour," said Virginia, "but it
                            is so nice I can't wait that long to tell you. We are going to have a
                            valentine party to-morrow night. Aunt Allison planned it all a week ago,
                            and bought the things for it while we were in town to-day. Everything on
                            the table is to be cut in heart shape,--the bread and butter and
                            sandwiches and cheese; and the ice-cream will be moulded in hearts, and
                            the two big frosted cakes are hearts, one pink and one white, with candy
                            arrows sticking in them. Then there will be peppermint candy hearts with
                            mottoes printed on them, and lace-paper napkins with verses on them, so
                            that the table itself will look like a lovely big valentine. The games
                            are lovely, too. One is parlour archery, with a red heart in the middle
                            of the target, and two prizes, one for the boys and one for the
                            girls."
                        
                        "Who are invited?" asked Malcolm, as Virginia stopped for breath.
                        "Oh, the Carrington boys, and the Edmunds, and Sally Fairfax, and Julia
                            Ferris,--I can't remember them all. There will be twenty-four, counting
                            us. There is the list on the table."
                        Keith reached for it, and began slowly spelling out the names. "Who is
                            this?" he asked, reading the name that headed the list. "'The Little
                            Colonel!' I never heard of him."
                        "Oh, he's a girl!" laughed Virginia. "Little Lloyd Sherman,--don't you
                            know? She lives up at 'The Locusts,' that lovely place with the long
                            avenue of trees leading up to the house. You've surely seen her with her
                            grandfather, old Colonel Lloyd, riding by on the horse that he calls
                            Maggie Boy."
                        "Has he only one arm?" asked Malcolm.
                        "Yes, the other was shot off in the war years ago. Well, when Lloyd was
                            younger, she had a temper so much like his, and wore such a dear little
                            Napoleon hat, that everybody took to calling her the Little
                            Colonel."
                        "How old is she now?" asked Malcolm.
                        "About Keith's age, isn't she, Aunt Allison?" asked Virginia.
                        
                        "Yes," was the answer. "She is nearly eight, I believe. She has outgrown
                            most of her naughtiness now."
                        "I love to hear her talk," said Virginia. "She leaves out all of her r's
                            in such a soft, sweet way."
                        "All Southerners do that," said Malcolm, pompously, "and I think it
                            sounds lots better than the way Yankees talk."
                        "You boys don't talk like the Little Colonel," retorted Virginia, who had
                            often been teased by them for not being a Southerner. "You're all mixed
                            up every which way. Some things you say like darkeys, and some things
                            like English people, and it doesn't sound a bit like the Little
                            Colonel."
                        "Oh, well, that's because we've travelled abroad so much, don't you
                            know," drawled Malcolm, "and we've been in so many different countries,
                            and had an English tutor, and all that sort of a thing. We couldn't help
                            picking up a bit of an accent, don't you know." His superior tone made
                            Virginia long to slap him.
                        "Yes, I know, Mr. Brag," she said, in such a low voice that her
                            grandmother could not hear. "I know perfectly well. If I didn't it  wouldn't be because you haven't told me
                            every chance you got. Who did you say is your tailor in London, and how
                            many times was it the Queen invited you out to Windsor? I think it's a
                            ninety-nine dollar cravat you always buy, isn't it ? And you wouldn't be
                            so common as to wear a pair of gloves that hadn't been made to order
                            specially for you. Yes, I've heard all about it!"
                        Miss Allison heard, but said nothing. She knew the boys were a little
                            inclined to boast, and she thought Virginia's sharp tongue might have a
                            good effect. But the retort had grown somewhat sharper than was
                            pleasant, and, fearing a quarrel might follow if she did not interrupt
                            the whispers beside her, she said:
                        "Boys, did you ever hear about the time that the Little Colonel threw mud
                            on her grandfather's coat? There's no end to her pranks. Get grandmother
                            to tell you."
                        "Oh, yes, please, grandmother," begged Keith, with an arm around her
                            neck. "Tell about Fritz and the parrot, too," said Virginia. "Here,
                            Malcolm, there's room on this side for you."
                        Aunt Allison smiled. The storm had blown over, and they were all friends
                            again.
                    
                    
                    
                        "'DAPHNE, WHAT'S DEM CHILLUN ALLUZ RACIN' DOWN TO DE SPRING
                            HOUSE FO''"
                    
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        
                            THE VALENTINE PARTY.
                        
                        "NOW we can tell Ginger about the bear," was Keith's
                            first remark, when he awoke early next morning.
                        "But not until after we have seen the man again," answered Malcolm. "You
                            know we promised him that."
                        "Then let's go down before breakfast," exclaimed Keith, springing out of
                            bed and beginning to dress himself. A little while later, the old
                            coloured coachman saw them run past the window, where he was warming
                            himself by the kitchen stove.
                        "Daphne," he called out to the cook, who was beating biscuit in the
                            adjoining pantry, "Daphne, what's dem chillun alluz racin' down to de
                            spring-house fo' in de snow? Peah's lak dee has a heap o' business down
                            yandah."
                        Daphne, who had just been coaxed into filling  a basket with a generous supply of cold victuals, pretended not to
                            hear until he repeated his question. Then she stopped pounding long
                            enough to say, sharply, "Whuffo' you alluz 'spicion dem boys so
                            evahlastin'ly, Unc' Henry? Lak enough dee's settin' a rabbit trap. Boys
                            has done such things befo'. You's done it yo'se'f, hasn't you?"
                        Daphne had seen them setting rabbit traps there, but she knew well enough
                            that was not what they had gone for now, and that the food they carried
                            was not for the game of Robinson Crusoe, which they had played in the
                            deserted cabin the summer before. Still, she did not care to take Unc'
                            Henry into her confidence.
                        The food, the warmth, and the night's rest had so restored the bear that
                            it was able to go through all its performances for the boys'
                            entertainment, although it limped badly.
                        "Isn't he a dandy?" cried Keith; "I wish we had one. It's nicer than any
                            pets we ever had, except the ponies. Something always happened to the
                            dogs, and the monkey was such a nuisance, and the white rabbits were
                            stolen, and the guinea pigs died."
                        "Haven't we had a lot of things, when you 
                            come to think of it?" exclaimed Malcolm. " Squirrels, and white mice,
                            and the coon that Uncle Harry brought us, and the parrot from
                            Mexico."
                        "Yes, and the gold-fish, and the little baby alligator that froze to
                            death in its tank," added Keith. "But a bear like this would be nicer
                            than any of them. As soon as papa comes home I am going to ask him to
                            buy us one."
                        "Jonesy's nearly done for," said the tramp, pointing to the boy who lay
                            curled up in the hay, coughing at nearly every breath. "We ought to stay
                            here another day, if you young gen'lemen don't object."
                        "Oh, goody!" cried Keith. "Then we can bring Ginger down to see the bear
                            perform."
                        "Yes," answered the man, "we'll give a free show to all your friends, if
                            you will only kindly wait till to-morrow. Give us one more day to rest
                            up and get in a little better trim. The poor beast's foot is still too
                            lame for him to do his best, and you're too kind-hearted, I am sure, to
                            want anything to suffer in order to give you pleasure."
                        "Of course," answered both the boys, agreeing so quickly to all the man's
                            smooth speeches  that, before they left the
                            cabin, they had renewed their promise to keep silent one more day. The
                            man was a shrewd one, and knew well how to make these unsuspecting
                            little souls serve his purpose, like puppets tied to a string.
                        Miss Allison was so busy with preparations for the party that she had no
                            time all that day to notice what the boys were doing. When they came
                            back from reciting their lessons to the minister, she sent them on
                            several errands, but the rest of the time they divided between the cabin
                            and the post-office.
                        Every mail brought a few valentines to each of them, but it was not until
                            the five o'clock train came that they found the long-looked-for letters
                            from their father and mother.
                        "I knew they'd each send us a valentine," cried Keith, tearing both of
                            his open. "I'll bet that papa's is a comic one. Yes, here it is. Papa is
                            such a tease. Isn't it a stunner ? a base-ball player. And, whoopee!
                            Here's a dollar bill in each of 'em."
                        "So there is in mine," said Malcolm. "Mamma says we are to buy anything
                            we Want, and call it a valentine. They couldn't  find anything down on the coast that they thought we would
                            like."
                        "I don't know what to get with mine," said Keith, folding his two bills
                            together. "Seems to me I have everything I want except a camera, and I
                            couldn't buy the kind I want for two dollars."
                        They were half-way home when a happy thought came to Malcolm. "Keith," he
                            cried, excitedly, " if you would put your money with mine, that would
                            make four dollars, and maybe it would be enough to buy that bear!"
                        "Let's do it!" exclaimed Keith, turning a handspring in the snow to show
                            his delight. "Come on, we'll ask the man now."
                        But the man shook his head, when they dashed into the cabin and told
                            their errand. "No, sonny, that ain't a tenth of what it's worth to me,"
                            he said. "I've raised that bear from the time it was a teeny cub. I've
                            taught it, and fed it, and looked to it for company when I hadn't nobody
                            in the world to care for me. Couldn't sell that bear for no such sum as
                            that. Couldn't you raise any more money than that?"
                        It was Malcolm's turn to shake his head.  He
                            turned away, too disappointed to trust himself to answer any other way.
                            The tears sprang to Keith's eyes. He had set his heart on having that
                            bear.
                        "Never mind, brother," said Malcolm, moving toward the door. "Papa will
                            get us one when he comes home and finds how much we want one."
                        "Oh, don't be in such a hurry, young gen'lemen," whined the man, when he
                            saw that they were really going. " I didn't say that I wouldn't sell it
                            to you for that much. You've been so kind to me that I ought to be
                            willing to make any sacrifice for you. I happen to need four dollars
                            very particular just now, and I've a mind to sell him to you on your own
                            terms." He paused a moment, looking thoughtfully at a crack in the
                            floor, as he stood by the fire with his hands in his pockets. "Yes," he
                            said, at last, "you can have him for four dollars, if you'll keep mum
                            about us being here for one more day. You can leave the bear here till
                            we go."
                        "No! No!" cried Keith, throwing his arms around the animal's neck. "He is
                            ours now, and we must take him with us. We can hide  him away in the barn. It is so dark out-doors now that
                            nobody will see us. It wouldn't seem like he is really ours if we
                            couldn't take him with us."
                        After some grumbling the man consented, and pocketed the four dollars,
                            first asking very particularly the exact spot in the barn where they
                            expected to hide their huge pet.
                        Unc' Henry, coming up from the carriage, house through the twilight,
                            thought he saw some one stealing along by the clump of cedars by the
                            spring-house. "Who's prowlin' roun' dis yere premises?" he called. There
                            was no answer, and, after peering intently through the dusk for a
                            moment, the old darkey concluded that he must have been mistaken, and
                            passed on. As soon as he was gone, the boys came out from behind the
                            cedars, and crept up the snowy hillside. They were leading the bear
                            between them.
                        "We'll put him away back in the hay-mow where he'll be warm and
                            comfortable to-night," whispered Malcolm. "Then in the morning we can
                            tell everybody."
                        While they were busily scooping out a big hollow in the hay, they were
                            startled by a  rustling behind them. They
                            looked into each other's frightened faces, and then glanced around the
                            dark barn in alarm. An old cap pushed up through the hay. Then a weak
                            little cough betrayed Jonesy. He had followed them.
                        "Sh!" he said, in a warning whisper. "I'm afraid the boss will find out
                            that I'm here. He started to the store for some tobacco as soon as you
                            left. He's been wild fer some, but didn't have no money. Don't you leave that bear out ere to-night, if you ever expect to
                                see it again! That wasn't true what he told you. He never saw
                            the bear till two months ago, and he sold it to you cheap because he's
                            a-goin' to steal it back again to-night, and make off up the road with
                            it. He went off a-grinnin' over the slick way he'd fooled you, and I
                            jes' had to come and tell, 'cause you've been so good to me. I'll never
                            forget the little kid's givin' me the coat off his own back, if I live
                            to be a hundred. Now don't blab on me, or the boss would nearly kill
                            me."
                        "Is that man your father ?" began Keith, but Jonesy, alarmed by some
                            sudden noise, sprang to the door, and disappeared in the twilight.
                        
                        The boys looked at each other a moment, with surprise and indignation in
                            their faces. There was a hurried consultation in the hay-mow. A few
                            moments later the boys were smuggling their new pet into the house, and
                            up the back stairs. They scarcely dared breathe until it was safe in
                            their own room.
                        All the time that they were dressing for the party, they were trying to
                            decide where to put it for the night, so that neither the tramp nor the
                            family could discover it. What Jonesy had told them about the man's
                            dishonest intention did not relieve them from their promise. They were
                            amazed that any one could be so mean, and longed to tell their Aunt
                            Allison all about it; still, one of the conditions on which they had
                            bought the bear was that they were to "keep mum," and they stuck
                            strictly to that promise.
                        By the time they were dressed, they had decided to put it in the blue
                            room, a guest-chamber in the north wing, seldom used in winter, because
                            it was so hard to heat. "Nobody will ever think of coming in here," said
                            Malcolm, "and it will be plenty warm for a bear if we turn on the
                            furnace a little." As he  spoke, he was
                            tying the bear's rope around a leg of the big, high-posted bed.
                        "Won't Ginger be surprised?" answered  Keith. "We'll tell her
                            that we have a valentine six feet long, and keep her guessing."
                        There was no time for teasing, however, as the first guest arrived while
                            they were still in the blue room.
                        "I hate to go off and leave him in the dark,"  said Keith, with a final loving pat. "I guess he'll not mind, though.
                            Maybe he'll think he is in the woods if I put this good-smelling pine
                            pillow on the rug beside him."
                        "Oh, boys," called Virginia from the hall down-stairs. " See what an
                            enormous valentine pie Aunt Allison has made!"
                        Looking over the banisters, the boys saw that a table had been drawn into
                            the middle of the wide reception-hall, and on it sat the largest pie
                            that they had ever seen. It was in a bright new tin pan, and its
                            daintily browned crust would have made them hungry even if their
                            appetites had not been sharpened by the cold and exercise of the
                            afternoon.
                        "What a queer place to serve pie," said Malcolm, in a disapproving
                            undertone to his brother. "Why don't they have it in the dining-room? It
                            looks mighty good, but somehow it doesn't seem proper to have it stuck
                            out here in the hall. Mamma would never do such a thing."
                        "Aw, it's made of paper! She fooled us, sure, Malcolm," called back
                            Keith, who had run on ahead to look. "It is only painted to look like a
                            pie. But isn't it a splendid imitation?"
                        
                        Virginia, pleased to have caught them so cleverly, showed them the ends
                            of twenty-four pieces of narrow ribbon, peeping from under the
                            delicately brown top crust. "The white ones are for the girls, and the
                            red ones for the boys," she explained. "There is a valentine on the end
                            of each one, and those on the red ribbons match the ones on the white.
                            We'll all pull at once, and the ones who have valentines alike will go
                            out to dinner together."
                        The guests came promptly. They had been invited for half-past six, and
                            dinner was to be served soon after that time. The last to arrive was the
                            Little Colonel. She came in charge of an old coloured woman, Mom Beck,
                            who had been her mother's nurse as well as her own. The child was so
                            hidden in her wraps when Mom Beck led her up-stairs, that no one could
                            tell how she looked. The boys had been curious to see her, ever since
                            they had heard so many tales of her mischievous pranks. A few minutes
                            later, when she appeared in the parlours, there was a buzz of
                            admiration. Maybe it was not so much for the soft light hair, the
                            star-like beauty of her big dark eyes, or the delicate colour in her
                            cheeks that made them as  pink as a wild
                            rose, as it was for the valentine costume she wore. It was of dainty
                            white tulle, sprinkled with hundreds of tiny red velvet hearts, and
                            there was a coronet of glittering rhinestones on her long fair hair.
                        "The Queen of Hearts," announced Aunt Allison, leading her forward. "You
                            know 'she made some tarts, upon a summer day,' and now she shall open
                            the valentine pie and see if it is as good as her Majesty's."
                        The big music-box in the hall began playing one of its liveliest waltzes,
                            the children gathered around the great pie, and twenty-four little hands
                            reached out to grasp the floating ends of ribbon.
                        "Pull!" cried the little Queen of Hearts. The paper crust flew off, and
                            twenty-four yards of ribbon, each with a valentine attached, fluttered
                            brightly through the air for an instant.
                        "Now match your verses," cried her Majesty again, opening her own to read
                            what was in it. There was much laughing and peeping over shoulders, and
                            tangling of white and scarlet ribbons, while the gay music-box played
                            on.
                        In the midst of it Virginia beckoned to the Little Colonel. "Come
                            up-stairs with me for a  minute, Lloyd,"
                            she whispered, "and help me look for something. Aunt Allison has
                            forgotten where she put the box of arrows that we are to use in the
                            archery contest after dinner. There is the prettiest prize for the one
                            who hits the red heart in the centre of the target."
                        "Oh, do you suppose you can hit it?" asked Lloyd, as she and Virginia
                            slipped their arms around each other, and went skipping up the
                            stairs.
                        "Yes, indeed!" answered Virginia. "I used to practise so much with my
                            Indian bow and arrow out at the fort, that I could hit centre nearly
                            every time. I am not going to shoot to-night. Aunt Allison thinks it
                            wouldn't be fair."
                        When they reached the top of the stairs, Virginia went into her room to
                            light a wax taper in one of the tall silver candlesticks on her
                            dressing-table. "I think that Aunt Allison must have left those arrows
                            in the blue room," she said, leading the way down the cross hall which
                            went to the north wing. " She made the pie in there this morning, and
                            all the other things were there. Nobody comes over in  this part of the house much in winter,
                            unless there happens to be a great deal of company."
                        The taper that  Virginia carried was the only light in that part
                            of the house. When she reached the door of the blue room she turned to
                            Lloyd. " Hold the candle for me, please," she said, "while I look in the
                            closet."
                        It was a pretty picture that the little "Queen of Hearts" made, as she
                            stood in the doorway, with the tall silver candlestick held high in both
                            hands. Her hair shone like gold in the candlelight, and her glittering
                            crown flashed as if a circle of fairy fireflies had been caught in its
                                 soft meshes. Her dark eyes peered
                            anxiously around the big shadowy room, lighted only by her flickering
                            taper.
                        Down-stairs, Malcolm and Keith were almost quarrelling about her. It
                            began by Malcolm taking his brother aside and offering to trade
                            valentines with him.
                        "Why?" asked Keith, suspiciously.
                        "'Cause yours matches the Little Colonel's, and I want to take her out to
                            dinner," admitted Malcolm. "She is the prettiest girl here."
                        "But I don't want to trade," answered Keith. "I want to take her
                            myself."
                        "I'll give you the pick of any six stamps in my album if you will."
                        "Don't want your old stamps," declared Keith, stoutly. "I'd rather have
                            the Little Colonel for my partner."
                        "I think you might trade," coaxed Malcolm. "It's mean not to when I'm the
                            oldest. I'll give you that Chinese puzzle you've been wanting so long if
                            you will." Keith shook his head.
                        Just then a terrific scream sounded in the upper hall, followed by
                            another that made every  one down-stairs
                            turn pale with fright. Two voices were uttering piercing shrieks, one
                            after another, so loud and frantic that even the servants in the back
                            part of the house came running. Miss Allison, thinking of the candle she
                            had told Virginia to light, and remembering the thin, white dress the
                            child wore, instantly thought she must have set herself afire. She ran
                            into the hall, so frightened that she was trembling from head to foot.
                            Before she could reach the staircase, Virginia came flying down the
                            steps, white as a little ghost, and her eyes wide with terror. Throwing
                            herself into her aunt's outstretched arms, she began to sob out her
                            story between great, trembling gasps.
                        "Oh, there's an awful, awful wild beast in the blue room, nearly as tall
                            as the ceiling! It rose up and came after us out of the corner, and if I
                            hadn't slammed the door just in time, it would have eaten us up. I'm
                            sure it would! Oo-oo-oo! It was so awful!" she wailed.
                        "Why, Virginia," exclaimed her aunt, distressed to see her so terrified,
                            "it must have been only a big shadow you saw. It isn't possible for a
                            wild beast to be in the blue room you know. Where is Lloyd?"
                        
                        "She's up heah, Miss Allison," called Mom Beck's voice. "She's so
                            skeered, I'se pow'ful 'fraid she's gwine to faint. They sut'nly is
                            something in that room, honey, deed they is. I kin heah it movin' around
                            now, switchin' he's tail an' growlin'!"
                        Malcolm and Keith, with guilty faces, went dashing up the stairs, and the
                            whole party followed them at a respectful distance. When they opened the
                            door the room looked very big and shadowy, and the bear, roused from its
                            nap, was standing on its hind legs beside the highposted bed. The huge
                            figure was certainly enough to frighten any one coming upon it
                            unexpectedly in the dark, and when Miss Allison saw it she drew
                            Virginia's trembling hand into hers with a sympathetic clasp. Before she
                            could ask any questions, the boys began an excited explanation. It was
                            some time before they could make their story understood.
                        Their grandmother was horrified, and insisted on sending the animal away
                            at once. "The idea of bringing such a dangerous creature into any one's
                            house," she exclaimed, "and, above all, of shutting him up in a bedroom!
                            We might have all been bitten, or hugged to death!
                        
                        "But, grandmother," begged Malcolm, "he isn't dangerous. Let me bring him
                            into the light, and show you what a kind old pet he is."
                        There was a scattering to the other end of the hall as Malcolm came out,
                            leading the bear, but the children gradually drew nearer as the great
                            animal began its performances. Keith whistled and kept time with his
                            feet in a funny little shuffling jig he had learned from Jonesy, and the
                            bear obligingly went through all his tricks. He was used to being pulled
                            out to perform whenever a crowd could be collected.
                        Virginia forgot her fear of him when he stood up and presented arms like
                            a real soldier, and even went up and patted him when the show was over,
                            joining with the boys in begging that he might be allowed to stay in the
                            house until morning. Mrs. MacIntyre was determined to send a man down to
                            the cabin at once to investigate. She had a horror of tramps. But the
                            boys begged her to wait until daylight for Jonesy's sake.
                        "The man will beat him if he finds out that Jonesy warned us," pleaded
                            Keith. He was so earnest that the tears stood in his big, trustful
                            eyes.
                        
                        "This is spoiling the party, mother," whis pered Miss Allison, "and
                            dinner is waiting. I'll be responsible for any harm that may be done if
                            you will let the boys have their way this once."
                        There seemed no other way to settle it just then, so Bruin was allowed to
                            go back to his rug in the blue room, and the door was securely
                            locked.
                        Keith took Lloyd down to dinner, and his grandmother heard him
                            apologising all the way down for having frightened her. The little Queen
                            of Hearts listened smilingly, but her colour did not come back all
                            evening, until after the archery contest. It was when Malcolm came up
                            with the prize he had won, a tiny silver arrow, and pinned it in the
                            knot of red ribbon on her shoulder.
                        "Will you keep it to remember me by?" he asked, bashfully.
                        "Of co'se!" she answered, with a smile that showed all her roguish
                            dimples. "I'll keep it fo'evah and evah to remembah how neah I came to
                            bein' eaten up by yo' bea'h."
                        "It seems too bad for such a beautiful party to come to an end," Sally
                            Fairfax said when 
                            
                                "'WILL YOU KEEP IT TO REMEMBER ME BY?"
                            
                            
                             the last merry game was played, the last
                            story told, and it was time to go home. "But there's one comfort," she
                            added, gathering all her gay valentines together, "there needn't be any
                            end to the remembering of it. I've had such a good time, Mrs.
                            MacIntyre."
                        It was so late when the last carriage rolled down the avenue, bearing
                            away the last smiling little guest, that the children were almost too
                            sleepy to undress. It was not long until the last light was put out in
                            every room, and a deep stillness settled over the entire house. One by
                            one the lights went out in every home in the valley, and only the stars
                            were left shining, in the cold wintry sky. No, there was one lamp that
                            still burned. It was in the little cottage where old Professor Heinrich
                            sat bowed over his books.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV.
                        
                            A FIRE AND A PLAN.
                        
                        SOME people said that old Johann Heinrich never slept,
                            for no matter what hour of the night one passed his lonely little house,
                            a lamp was always burning. He was a queer old German naturalist, living
                            by himself in a cottage adjoining the MacIntyre place. He had been a
                            professor in a large university until he grew too old to keep his
                            position. Why he should have chosen Lloydsborough Valley as the place to
                            settle for the remainder of his life, no one could tell.
                        He kept kimself away from his neighbours, and spent so much time roaming
                            around the woods by himself that people called him queer. They did not
                            know that he had written two big books about the birds and insects he
                            loved so well, or that he could tell them facts more wonderful than
                            fairy tales  about these little wild
                            creatures of the woodland.
                        To-night he had read later than usual, and his fire was nearly out. He
                            was too poor to keep a servant, so when he found that the coalhod was
                            empty he had to go out to the kitchen to fill it himself. That is why he
                            saw something that happened soon after midnight, while everybody else in
                            the valley was sound asleep.
                        Over in the cabin by the spring-house where the boys had left the tramp
                            and Jonesy, a puff of smoke went curling around the roof. Then a tongue
                            of flame shot up through the cedars, and another and another until the
                            sky was red with an angry glare. It lighted up the eastern window-panes
                            of the servants' cottage, but the inmates, tired from the unusual
                            serving of the evening before, slept on. It shone full across the window
                            of Virginia's room, but she was dreaming of being chased by bears, and
                            only turned uneasily in her sleep.
                        The old professor, on his way to the kitchen, noticed that it seemed
                            strangely light outside. He shuffled to the door and looked out.
                        "Ach Himmel!" he exclaimed, excitedly. 
                            "Somebody vil shust in his bed be burnt, if old Johann does not haste
                            make!"
                        Not waiting to close the door behind him, or even to catch up something
                            to protect his old bald head from the intense cold of the winter night,
                            he ran out across the garden. His shuffling feet, in their flapping old
                            carpet slippers, forgot their rheumatism, and his shoulders dropped the
                            weight of their seventy years. He ran like a boy across the meadow,
                            through the gap in the fence, and down the hill to the cabin by the
                            spring.
                        All one side of it was in flames. The fire was curling around the front
                            door and bursting through the windows with fierce cracklings. Dashing
                            frantically around to the back door, he threw himself against it,
                            shouting to know if any one was within. A blinding rush of smoke was his
                            only answer as he backed away from the overpowering heat, but something
                            fell across the door-sill in a limp little heap. It was Jonesy.
                        Dragging the child to a safe distance from the burning building, he ran
                            back, fearing that some one else might be in danger, but this time the
                            flames met 1im at the door, and it was 
                            impossible to go in. His hoarse shouting roused the servants, but by the
                            time they reached the cabin the roof had fallen in, and all danger of
                            the fire spreading to other buildings was over.
                        While the professor was bending over Jonesy, trying to bring him back to
                            consciousness, Miss Allison came running down the path. She had an
                            eiderdown quilt wrapped around her over her dressing-gown. The shouts
                            had awakened her, also, and she had slipped out as quietly as possible,
                            not wishing to alarm her mother.
                        "How did it happen?" she demanded, breathlessly. " Is the child badly
                            burned ? Is any one else hurt? Is the tramp in the cabin?"
                        No one gave any answer to her rapid questions. The old professor shook
                            his head, but did not look up. He was bending over Jonesy, trying to
                            restore him to consciousness. He seemed to know the right things to do
                            for him, and in a little while the child opened his eyes and looked
                            around wonderingly. In a few minutes he was able to tell what he knew
                            about the fire.
                        It was not much, only a horrible recollection of being awakened by a
                            feeling that he was choking in the thick smoke that filled the room;  of hearing the boss swear at him to be
                            quick and follow him or he would be burned to death. Then there had been
                            an awful moment of groping through the blinding, choking smoke, trying
                            to find a way out. The man sprang to a window and made his escape, but
                            as the outside air rushed in through the opening he left, it seemed to
                            fan the smoke instantly into flame.
                        Jonesy had struck out at the wall of fire with his helpless little hands,
                            and then, half-crazed by the scorching pain, dropped to the floor and
                            crawled in the opposite direction, just as the professor burst open the
                            door.
                        The sight of the poor little blistered face brought the tears to Miss
                            Allison's eyes, and she called two of the coloured men, directing them
                            to carry Jonesy to the house, and then go at once for a doctor. But the
                            professor interfered, insisting that Jonesy should be taken to his
                            house. He said that he knew how to prepare the cooling bandages that
                            were needed, and that he would sit up all night to apply them. He could
                            not sleep anyhow, he said, after such great excitement.
                        "But I feel responsible for him," urged Miss Allison. "Since it happened
                            on our place, and  my little nephews
                            brought him here, it seems to me that we ought to have the care of
                            him."
                        The professor waved her aside, lifting Jonesy's head as tenderly as a
                            nurse could have done, and motioned the coloured men to lift him up.
                            "No, no, fraulein," he said. "I have had eggsperience. It is besser, the
                            poor leedle knabe go mit me!"
                        There was no opposing the old man's masterful way. Miss Allison stepped
                            aside for them to pass, calling after him her willingness to do the
                            nursing he had taken upon himself, and insisting that she would come
                            early in the morning to help.
                        Unc' Henry was left to guard the ruins, lest some stray spark should be
                            blown toward the other buildings. "Dis yere ole niggah wa'n't mistaken
                            aftah all," he muttered. "Dee was somebody prowlin' 'roun' de premises
                            yistiddy evenin'." Then he searched the ground, al! around the cabin,
                            for footprints in the snow. He found some tracks presently, and followed
                            them over the meadow in the starlight, across the road, and down the
                            railroad track several rods. There they suddenly disappeared. The tramp
                            had evidently walked on the rail some distance. If Unc' Henry had gone
                            quarter of  a mile farther up the track, he
                            would have found those same sliding imprints on every other cross-tie,
                            as if the man had taken long running leaps in his haste to get away.
                        Jonesy stoutly denied that the man had set fire to the cabin. "We nearly
                            froze to death that night," he said, when questioned about it afterward,
                            "and the boss piled on an awful big lot of wood just before he went to
                            bed."
                        "Then what made him take to his heels so fast if he didn't?" some one
                            asked.
                        "I don't know," answered Jonesy. "He said that luck was always against
                            him, and maybe he thought nobody would believe him if he did say that he
                            didn't do it."
                        Several days after that Malcolm found the tramp's picture in the Courier-Journal. He was a noted criminal who had
                            escaped from a Northern penitentiary some two months before, and had
                            been arrested by the Louisville police. There was no mistaking him. That
                            big, ugly scar branded him on cheek and forehead like another Cain.
                        "And to think that that terrible man was harboured on my place! "
                            exclaimed Mrs. MacIntyre when she heard of it. "And you boys  were down there in the cabin with him for
                            hours! Sat beside him and talked with him! What will your mother say? I
                            feel as if you had been exposed to the smallpox, and I cannot be too
                            thankful now that the boy who was with him was not brought here. He
                            isn't a fit companion for you. Not that the poor little unfortunate is
                            to blame. He cannot help being a child of the slums, and he must be put
                            in an orphan asylum or a reform school at once. It is probably the only
                            thing that can save him from growing up to be a criminal like the man
                            who brought him here. I shall see what can be done about it, as soon as
                            possible."
                        "A child of the slums ! " Malcolm and Keith repeated the expression
                            afterward, with only a vague idea of its meaning. It seemed to set poor
                            Jonesy apart from themselves as something unclean,--something that their
                            happy, well-filled lives must not be allowed to touch.
                        Maybe if Jonesy had been an attractive child, with a sensitive mouth, and
                            big, appealing eyes, he might have found his way more easily into
                            people's hearts. But he was a lean, snub-nosed little fellow, with a
                            freckled face and neglected hair. No one would ever find his cheek a  tempting one to kiss, and no one would be
                            moved, by any feeling save pity, to stoop and put affectionate arms
                            around Jonesy. He was only a common little street gamin, as unlovely as
                            he was unloved.
                        "What a blessing that there are such places as orphan asylums for
                            children of that class," said Mrs. MacIntyre, after one of her visits to
                            him. "I must make arrangements for him to be put into one as soon as he
                            is able to be moved."
                        "I think he will be very loath to leave the old professor," answered Miss
                            Allison. "He has been so good to the child, amusing him by the hour with
                            his microscopes and collections of inects, telling him those delightful
                            old German folk-lore tales, and putting him to sleep every night to the
                            music of his violin. What a child-lover he is, and what a delightful old
                            man in every way ! I am glad we have discovered him."
                        "Yes," said Mrs. MacIntyre; "and when this little tramp is sent away, I
                            want the children to go there often. I asked him if he could not teach
                            them this spring, at least make a beginning with them in natural
                            history, and he appeared much pleased. He is as poor as a church mouse,
                            and would be very glad of the money."
                        
                        "That reminds me," said Miss Allison, "he asked me if the boys could not
                            come down to see Jonesy this afternoon, and bring the bear. He thought
                            it would give the little fellow so much pleasure, and might help him to
                            forget his suffering."
                        Mrs. MacIntyre hesitated. "I do not believe their mother would like it,"
                            she answered. "Sydney is careful enough about their associates, but
                            Elise is doubly particular. You can imagine how much badness this child
                            must know when you remember how he has been reared. He told me that his
                            name is Jones Carter, and that he cannot remember ever having a father
                            or a mother. I questioned him very closely this morning. He comes from
                            the worst of the Chicago slums. He slept in the cellar of one of its
                            poorest tenement houses, and lived in the gutters. He has a brother only
                            a little older, who is a bootblack. On days when shines were plentiful
                            they had something to eat, otherwise they starved or begged."
                        "Poor little lamb," murmured Miss Allison.
                        "It was by the brother's advice he came away with that tramp," continued
                            Mrs. MacIntyre. "He had gotten possession of that  trained bear in some way, and probably took a fancy to
                            Jones because he could whistle and dance all sorts of jigs. He probably
                            thought it would be a good thing to have a child with him to work on
                            peoples' sympathies. They walked all the way from Chicago to
                            Lloydsborough, Jones told me, excepting three days' journey they made in
                            a wagon. They have been two months on the road, and showed the bear in
                            the country places they passed through, They avoided the large
                            towns."
                        "Think what a Christmas he must have had ! " exclaimed Miss Allison.
                        "Christmas! I doubt if he ever heard the word. His speech is something
                            shocking; nothing but the slang of the streets, and so ungrammatical
                            that I could scarcely understand him at times. No, I am very sure that
                            neither Sydney nor Elise would want the boys to be with him."
                        "But he is so little, mother, and so sick and pitiful looking," pleaded
                            Miss Allison. "Surely he cannot know so very much badness or hurt the
                            boys if they go down to cheer him up for a little while."
                        Notwithstanding Mrs. Maclntyre's fears, she 
                            consented to the boys visiting Jonesy that afternoon. She could not
                            resist the professor's second appeal or the boys' own urging.
                        They took the bear with them, which Jonesy welcomed like a lost friend.
                            They spent an interesting hour among the professor's collections,
                            listening to his explanations in his funny broken English. Then they
                            explored his cottage, much amused by his queer housekeeping, cracked
                            nuts on the hearth, and roasted apples on a string in front of the
                            fire.
                        Jonesy did not seem to be cheered up by the visit as much as the
                            professor had expected. Presently the old man left the room and Keith
                            sat down on the side of the bed.
                        "What makes you so still, Jonesy?" he asked. "You haven't said a word for
                            the last half hour."
                        "I was thinking about Barney," he answered, keeping his face turned away.
                            "Barney is my brother, you know."
                        "Yes, so grandmother said," answered Keith. "How big is he?"
                        "'Bout as big as yourn." There was a choke in Jonesy's voice now. "
                            Seein' yourn put his arm across your shoulder and pullin' your head  back by one ear and pinchin' you sort in
                            fun like, made me think the way Barney uster do to me." Keith did not
                            know what to say, so there was a long, awkward pause.
                        "I'd never a-left him," said Jonesy, "but the boss said it 'ud only be a
                            little while and we'd make so much money showin' the bear that I'd have
                            a whole pile to take home. I could ride back on the cars and take a
                            whole trunk full of nice things to Barney,--clothes, and candy, and a
                            swell watch and chain, and a bustin' beauty of a bike. Now the bear's
                            sold and the boss has run away, and I don't know how I can get back to
                            Barney. Him an me's all each other's got, and I want to see him so bad."
                        The little fellow's lip quivered, and he put up one bandaged hand to wipe
                            away the hot tears that would keep coming, in spite of his efforts not
                            to make a baby of himself. There was something so pitiful in the gesture
                            that Keith looked across at Malcolm and then patted the bedclothes with
                            an affectionate little hand.
                        "Never mind, Jonesy," he said, "papa will be home in the spring and he'll
                            send you back to Barney." But Jonesy never having known anything of
                            fathers whose chief pleasure is in 
                            spending money to make little sons happy, was not comforted by that
                            promise as much as Keith thought he ought to be.
                        "But I won't be here then," he sobbed. "They're goin' to put me in a
                            'sylum, and I can't get out for so long that maybe Barney will be dead
                            before we ever find each other again."
                        
                        He was crying violently now.
                        "Who is going to put you in an asylum?" asked Malcolm, lifting an end of
                            the pillow under which Jonesy's head had burrowed, to hide the grief
                            that his eight-year-old manhood made him too proud to show.
                        "An old lady with white hair what comes here every day. The professor
                            said he would  keep me if he wasn't so old
                            and hard up, and she said as how a 'sylum was the proper place for a
                            child of the slums, and he said yes if they wasn't nobody to care for
                            'em. But I've got somebody!" he cried. "I've got Barney! Oh, don't let them shut me up somewhere so I can't never
                            get back to Barney!"
                        "They don't shut you up when they send you to an asylum," said Malcolm.
                            "The one near here is a lovely big house, with acres of green grass
                            around it, and orchards and vineyards, and they are ever so good to the
                            children, and give them plenty to eat and wear, and send them to
                            school."
                        "Barney wouldn't be there," sobbed Jonesy, diving under the pillow again.
                            "I don't want nothing but him."
                        "Well, we'll see what we can do," said Malcolm, as he heard the professor
                            coming back. "If we could only keep you here until spring, I am sure
                            that papa would send you back all right. He's always helping people that
                            get into trouble."
                        Jonesy took his little snub nose out of the pillow as the professor came
                            in, and looked around defiantly as if ready to fight the first  one who dared to hint that he had been
                            crying. The boys took their leave soon after, leading the bear back to
                            his new quarters in the carriage house, where they had made him a
                            comfortable den. Then they walked slowly up to the house, their arms
                            thrown across each other's shoulders.
                        "S'pose it was us," said Keith, after walk. ing on a little way in
                            silence. "S'pose that you and I were left of all the family, and didn't
                            have any friends in the world, and I was to get separated from you and
                            couldn't get back?"
                        "That would be tough luck, for sure," answered Malcolm.
                        "Don't you s'pose Jonesy feels as badly about it as we would ?" asked
                            Keith.
                        "Shouldn't be surprised," said Malcolm, beginning to whistle. Keith
                            joined in, and keeping step to the tune, like two soldiers, they marched
                            on into the house.
                        Virginia found them in the library, a little while later, sitting on the
                            hearth-rug, tailor-fashion. They were still talking about Jonesy They
                            could think of nothing else but the loneliness of the little waif, and
                            his pitiful appeal:
                        
                        "Oh, don't let them shut me up where I can't never get back to
                            Barney."
                        "Why don't you write to your father?" asked Virginia, when they had told
                            her the story of their visit.
                        "Oh, it is so hard to explain things in a letter," answered Malcolm, "and
                            being off there, he'd say that grandmother and all the grown people
                            certainly know best. But if he could see Jonesy,--how pitiful looking he
                            is, and hear him crying to go back to his brother, I know he'd feel the
                            way we do about it."
                        "I called the professor out in the hall, and told him so," said Keith,
                            "and asked him if he couldn't adopt Jonesy, or something, until papa
                            comes home. But he said that he is too poor. He has only a few dollars a
                            month to live on. I didn't mind asking him. He smiled in that big, kind
                            way he always does. He said Jonesy was lots of company, and he would
                            like to keep him this summer, if he could afford it, and let him get
                            well and strong out here in the country."
                        "Then he would keep him till Uncle Sydney comes, if somebody would pay
                            his board?" asked Virginia.
                        
                        "Yes," said Malcolm, "but that doesn't help matters much, for we children
                            are the only ones who want him to stay, and our monthly allowances, all
                            put together, wouldn't be enough."
                        "We might earn the money ourselves," suggested Virginia, after awhile,
                            breaking a long silence.
                        "How ?" demanded Malcolm. " Now, Ginger, you know, as well as I do, there
                            is no way for us to earn anything this time of year. You can't pick
                            fruit in the dead of winter, can you? or pull weeds, or rake leaves?
                            What other way is there?"
                        "We might go to every house in the valley, and exhibit the bear," said
                            Keith, "taking up a collection each time."
                        "Now you've made me think of it," cried Virginia, excitedly. "I've
                            thought of a good way. We'll give Jonesy a benefit, like great singers
                            have. The bear will be the star performer, and we'll all act, too, and
                            sell the tickets, and have tableaux. I love to arrange tableaux. We were
                            always having them out at the fort."
                        "I bid to show off the bear," cried Malcolm,  entering into Virginia's plan at once. "May be I'll learn something
                            to recite, too."
                        "I'll help print the tickets," said Keith, "and go around selling them,
                            and be in anything you want me to be. How many tableaux are you going to
                            have, Ginger?"
                        "I can't tell yet," she answered, but a moment after she cried out, her
                            eyes shining with pleasure, "Oh, I've thought of a lovely one. We can
                            have the Little Colonel and the bear for ' Beauty and the Beast.'"
                        Malcolm promptly turned a somersault on the rug, to express his approval,
                            but came up with a grave face, saying, " I'll bet that grandmother will
                            say we can't have it."
                        "Let's get Aunt Allison on our side," sug. gested Virginia. " She's up in
                            her room now, painting a picture."
                        A little sigh of disappointment escaped Miss Allison's lips, as she heard
                            the rush of feet on the stairs. This was the first time that she had
                            touched her brushes since the children's coming, and she had hoped that
                            this one afternoon would be free from interruption, when she heard them
                            planning their afternoon's occupations at the lunch-table. They had come
                            back  before the little water-colour sketch
                            she was making was quite finished.
                        There was no disappointment, however, in the bright face she turned
                            toward them, and Virginia lost no time in beginning her story. She had
                            been elected to tell it, but before it was done all three had had a part
                            in the telling, and all three were waiting with wistful eyes for her
                            answer.
                        "Well, what is it you want me to do?" she asked, finally.
                        "Oh, just be on our side!" they exclaimed, "and get grandmother to say
                            yes. You see she doesn't feel about Jonesy the way we do. She is willing
                            to pay a great deal of money to have him taken off and cared for, but
                            she says she doesn't see how grandchildren of hers can be so interested
                            in a little tramp that comes from nobody knows where, and who will
                            probably end his days in a penitentiary."
                        Aunt Allison answered Malcolm's last remark a little sternly. "You must
                            understand that it is only for your own good that she is opposed to
                            Jonesy's staying," she said. "There is nobody in the valley so generous
                            and kind to the poor as your grandmother."
                        
                        "Yes'm," said Virginia, meekly, "but you'll ask her, won't you please,
                            auntie?"
                        Miss Allison smiled at her persistence. "Wait until I finish this," she
                            said. "Then I'll go down-stairs and put the matter before her, and
                            report to you at dinner-time. Now are you satisfied?"
                        "Yes," they cried in chorus, "you're on our side. It's all right now!"
                            With a series of hearty hugs that left her almost breathless, they
                            hurried away.
                        When Miss Allison kept her promise she did not go to her mother with the
                            children's story of Jonesy, to move her to pity. She told her simply
                            what they wanted, and then said, "Mother, you know I have begun to teach
                            the children the 'Vision of Sir Launfal.' Virginia has learned every
                            word of it, and the boys will soon know all but the preludes. There will
                            never be a better chance than this for them to learn the lesson:
                        
                            "'Not what we give, but what we share,
                            For the gift without the giver is bare.'
                        
                        "This would be a real sharing of themselves, all their time and best
                            energies, for they will  have to work hard
                            to get up such an entertainment as this. It isn't for Jonesy's sake I
                            ask it, but for the children's own good."
                        The old lady looked thoughtfully into the fire a moment, and then said,
                            "Maybe you are right, Allison. I do want to keep them unspotted from a
                            knowledge of the world's evils, but I do not want to make them selfish.
                            If this little beggar at the gate can teach them where to find the Holy
                            Grail, through unselfish service to him, I do not want to stand in the
                            way. Bless their little hearts, they may play Sir Launfal if they want
                            to, and may they have as beautiful a vision as his!"
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER V.
                        
                            JONESY'S BENEFIT.
                        
                        THE Jonesy Benefit grew like Jack's beanstalk after
                            Miss Allison took charge of it. There was less than a week in which to
                            get ready, as the boys insisted on having it on the twenty-second of
                            February, in honour of Washington's birthday; but in that short time the
                            childish show which Ginger had proposed grew into an entertainment so
                            beautiful and elaborate that the neighbourhood talked of it for weeks
                            after.
                        Miss Allison spent one sleepless night, plan ning her campaign like a
                            general, and next morn. ing had an army of helpers at work. Before the
                            day was over she sent a letter to an old school friend of hers in the
                            city, Miss Eleanor Bond, who had been her most intimate com. panion all
                            through her school-days, and who still spent a part of every summer with
                            her.
                        "Dearest Nell," the letter said, "come out 
                            to-morrow on the first afternoon train, if you love me. The children are
                            getting up an entertainment for charity, which shall be duly explained
                            on your arrival. No time now. I am superintending a force of carpenters
                            in the college hall, where the entertainment is to take place, have two
                            seamstresses in the house hurrying up costumes, and am helping mother
                            scour the country for pretty children to put in the tableaux.
                        "The house is like an ant-hill in commotion, there is so much scurrying
                            around; but I know that is what you thoroughly enjoy. You shall have a
                            finger in every pie if you will come out and help me to make this a
                            never-to-be-forgotten occasion.
                        "I want to make the old days of chivalry live again for Virginia and
                            Malcolm and Keith. I am going back to King Arthur's Court for the flower
                            of knighthood at his round table. Come and read for us between tableaux
                            as only you can do. Be the interpreter of 'Sir Launfal's Vision' and the
                            'Idylls of the King.' Give us the benefit of your talent for sweet
                            charity's sake, if not for the sake of 'auld lang syne' and your
                                devotedALLISON."
                        
                        "She'll be here," said Miss Allison, as she sealed the letter, nodding
                            confidently to Mrs. Sherman, who had come over to help with Lloyd's
                            costume. "You remember Nell Bond, do you not? She took the prize every
                            year in elocution, and was always in demand at every entertainment. She
                            is the most charming reader I ever heard, and as for
                            story-telling--well, she's better than the 'Arabian Nights.' You must
                            let the Little Colonel come over every evening while she is here."
                        Miss Bond arrived the next day, and her visit was a time of continual
                            delight to the children. They followed her wherever she went, until Mrs.
                            Maclntyre laughingly called her the 'Pied Piper of Hamelin,' and asked
                            what she had done to bewitch them.
                        The first night they gathered around the library-table, all as busy as
                            bees. Keith and the Little Colonel were cutting tinsel into various
                            lengths for Virginia to tie into fringe for a gay banner. Malcolm was
                            gilding some old spurs, Mrs. MacIntyre sat stringing yards of wax beads,
                            that gleamed softly in the lamplight like great rope of pearls, and Mrs.
                            Sherman was painting the posters, which were to be put up  in the post-office and depot as
                            advertisements of the Jonesy Benefit.
                        Miss Allison, who had been busy for hours with pasteboard and glue,
                            tin-foil and scissors, held up the suit of mail which she had just
                            finished.
                        "Isn't that fine!" cried Malcolm. "It looks exactly like some of the
                            armour we saw in the Tower of London, doesn't it, Keith?"
                        "I've thought of a riddle!" exclaimed Virginia. "Why is Aunt Allison's
                            head like Aladdin's lamp?"
                        "'Cause it's so bright ?" ventured Malcolm.
                        "No; because she has only to rub it, and everything she thinks of
                            appears. I don't see how it is possible to make so many beautiful things
                            out of almost nothing."
                        Virginia looked admiringly around at all the pretty articles scattered
                            over the room. A helmet with nodding white plumes lay on the piano. A
                            queen's robe trailed its royal ermine beside it. A sword with a jewelled
                            hilt shone on the mantel, and a dozen dazzling shields were ranged in
                            various places on the low book shelves.
                        It was easy, in the midst of such surround 
                            ings, for the children to imagine themselves back in the days of King
                            Arthur and his court, while Miss Bond sat there telling them such
                            beautiful tales of its fair ladies and noble knights. Indeed, before the
                            day of the entertainment came around they even found themselves talking
                            to each other in the quaint speech of that olden time.
                        When Malcolm accidentally ran against his grandmother in the hall,
                            instead of his usual, "Oh, excuse me, grandmother," it was "Prithee
                            grant me gracious pardon, fair dame. Not for a king's ransom would I
                            have thus jostled thee in such unseemly haste!" And Ginger, instead of
                            giving Keith a slap when he teasingly penned her up in a corner, to make
                            her divide some nuts with him, said, in a most tragic way, "Unhand me,
                            villain, or by my troth thou'lt rue this ruffian conduct sore!"
                        The library-table was strewn with books of old court life, and pictures
                            of kings and queens whose costumes were to be copied in the tableaux.
                            There was one book which Keith carried around with him until he had
                            spelled out the whole beautiful tale. It was called "In Kings' Houses,"
                            and was the story of the little Duke 
                            
                                "THERE WAS ONE BOOK WHICH KEITH CARRIED AROUND WITH HIM."
                            
                            
                             of Gloster who was made a knight in his
                            boy. hood. And when Keith had read it himself, he took it down to the
                            professor's, and read it all over again to Jonesy.
                        "Think how grand he must have looked, Jonesy," cried Keith, "and I am to
                            be dressed exactly like him when I am knighted in the tableau." Then he
                            read the description again:
                        "'A suit of white velvet embroidered with seed pearls, and literally
                            blazing with jewels,--even the buttons being great brilliants. From his
                            shoulder hung a cloak of azure blue velvet, the colour of the order,
                            richly wrought with gold; and around his neck he wore the magnificent
                            collar and jewel of St. George and the Dragon, that was the personal
                            gift of his Majesty, the king.'
                        "Think how splendid it must have been, Jonesy, when the procession came
                            in to the music of trumpets and bugles and silver flutes and hautboys!
                            Wouldn't you like to have seen the heralds marching by, two by two, in
                            cloth of gold, with an escort of the queen's guard following? All of
                            England's best and bravest were there, and they sat in the carven stalls
                            in  St. George's Chapel, with their
                            gorgeous ban. ners drooping over them. I saw that chapel, Jonesy, when
                            we were in England, and I saw where the knights kept the 'vigil of arms'
                            in the holy places, the night before they took their vows." He picked up
                            the book and read again: "< Fasting and praying and lonely
                            watching by night in the great abbey where there are so many dead
                            folk.'
                        "Oh, don't you wish you could have lived in those days, Jonesy, and have
                            been a knight?"
                        It was all Greek to Jonesy. The terms puzzled him, but he enjoyed Keith's
                            description of the tournaments.
                        Several evenings after that, Keith went down to the cottage dressed in
                            the beautiful velvet costume of white and blue, ablaze with rhinestones
                            and glittering jewels. He had been wrapped in his Aunt Allison's golf
                            cape, and, as he threw it off, Jonesy's eyes opened wider and wider with
                            wonder.
                        "Hi! You look like a whole jeweller's window!" he cried, dazzled by the
                            gorgeous sight. The professor lighted another lamp, and Keith turned
                            slowly around, to be admired on every side like a pleased peacock.
                        
                        "Of course it's all only imitation," he explained, "but it will look just
                            as good as the real thing behind the footlights. But you ought to see
                            the stage when it's fixed up to look like the Hall of the Shields, if
                            you want to see glitter. It's be-yu-tiful! Like the one at Camelot, you
                            know."
                        But Jonesy did not know, and Keith had to tell about that old castle at
                            Camelot, as Miss Bond had told him. How that down the side of the long
                            hall ran a treble range of shields,--
                        
                            "And under every shield a knight was named,
                            For such was Arthur's custom in his hall.
                            When some good knight had done one noble deed
                            His arms were carven only, but if twain
                            His arms were blazoned also, but if none
                            The shield was blank and bare, without a sign,
                             Saving the name beneath."
                        
                        Keith had been greatly interested in watching the carpenters fix the
                            stage so that it could be made to look like the Hall of the Shields in a
                            very few moments, when the time for that tableau should come. He knew
                            where every glittering shield was to hang, and every banner and
                            battle-axe.
                        
                        "How do you suppose those knights felt," he said to Jonesy, "who saw
                            their shields hanging there year after year, blank and bare, because
                            they had never done even one noble deed? They must have been dreadfully
                            ashamed when the king walked by and read their names underneath, and
                            then looked up at the shields and saw nothing emblazoned on them or even
                            carved. Seems to me that I would have done something to have made me
                            worthy of that honour if I had died for it!"
                        Something,--it may have been the soft, rich colour of the jewel-broidered
                            velvet the boy wore, or maybe the flush that rose to his cheeks at the
                            thrill of such noble thoughts,--something had brought an unusual beauty
                            into his face. As he stood there, with head held high, his dark eyes
                            flashing, his face glowing, and in that princely dress of a bygone day,
                            he looked every inch a nobleman. There was something so pure and sweet,
                            too, in the expression of his upturned face that the light upon it
                            seemed to touch it into an almost unearthly fairness.
                        The professor, who had been watching him with a tender smile on his
                            rugged old face, drew  the child toward
                            him, and brushed the hair back on his forehead.
                        "Ach, liebchen," he said, in his queer broken speech, "thy shield will
                            never be blank and bare. Already thou hast blazoned it with the beauty
                            of a noble purpose, and like Galahad, thou too shalt find the
                            Grail."
                        It was Keith's turn to be puzzled, but he did not like to ask for an
                            explanation; there was something so solemn in the way the old man put
                            his hand on his head as he spoke, almost as if he were bestowing a
                            blessing. Besides, it was time to go to the rehearsal at the college.
                            One of the servants had come to stay with Jonesy while the professor
                            went over to practise on his violin. He was to play behind the scenes, a
                            soft, low accompaniment to Miss Bond's reading.
                        By eight o'clock, the night of the Benefit, every seat in the house was
                            full. "That's jolly for Jonesy," exclaimed Malcolm, peeping out from
                            behind the curtain. "We counted up that ten cents a ticket would make
                            enough, if they were all sold, to pay his board till papa comes home,
                            and buy him all the new clothes he needs, too. Now every ticket is
                            sold."
                        
                        "Hurry up, Malcolm," called Keith. "We are first on the programme, and it
                            is time to begin."
                        There was a great bustle behind the scenes  for a few minutes,
                            and then "Beauty and the Beast" was announced. When the Little Colonel
                            came on the stage leading the great bear, such a cheering and clapping
                            began that  they both looked around, half
                            frightened; but the boys followed immediately and the Little Colonel,
                            dressed as a flower girl, danced out to meet Keith, who came in clicking
                            his castanets in time to Malcolm's whistling. The bear was made to go
                            through all his tricks and his soldier drill.
                        The children in the audience stood on tip-toe in their eagerness to see
                            the great animal perform, and were so wild in their applause that the
                            boys begged to be allowed to take it in front of the curtain every time
                            during the evening when there was a long pause while some tableau was
                            being prepared.
                        Over the rustle of fluttering programmes and the hum of conversation that
                            followed the first number, there fell presently the soft, sweel notes of
                            the professor's violin, and Miss Bond's musical voice began the story of
                            the Vision of Sir Launfal.
                        
                            "My golden spurs now bring to me,
                            And bring to me my richest mail,
                            For to-morrow I go over land and sea
                            In search of the Holy Grail."
                        
                        Here the curtains were drawn apart to show Malcolm seated on his pony as
                            Sir Launfal, "in  his gilded mail that
                            flamed so bright." It was really a beautiful picture he made, and his
                            grandmother, leaning, forward, her face beaming with pride at the boy's
                            noble bearing, compared him with Arthur himself, "with lance in rest,
                            from spur to plume a star of tournament."
                        The next tableau showed him spurning the leper at his gate, and turning
                            away in disgust from the beggar who "seemed the one blot on the summer
                            morn." How Miss Bond's voice rang out when "the leper raised not the
                            gold from the dust."
                        
                            "Better to me the poor man's crust.
                            That is no true alms which the hand can hold.
                            He gives nothing but worthless gold
                            Who gives from a sense cf duty."
                        
                        In the next tableau it was "as an old bent man, worn-out and frail," that
                            Sir Launfal came back from his weary pilgrimage. He had not found the
                            Holy Grail, but through his own sufferings he had learned pity for all
                            pain and poverty. Once more he stood beside the leper at his castle
                            gate, but this time he stooped to share with him his crust and wooden
                            bowl of water.
                        
                        Then it happened on the stage just as was told in the poem.
                        A light shone round about the place, and the crouching leper stood up.
                            The old ragged mantle dropped off, and there in a long garment almost
                            dazzling in its whiteness, stood a figure--
                        
                            "Shining and tail, and fair, and straight
                            As the pillar that stood by the Beautiful gate."
                        
                        They could not see the face, it was turned aside; but the golden hair was
                            like a glory, and the uplifted arms held something high in air that
                            gleamed like a burnished star, as all the lights in the room were turned
                            full upon it, for a little space. It was a golden cup. Then the voice
                            again:
                        
                            "In many climes without avail
                            Thou hast spent thy life for the Holy Grail.
                            Behold it is here--this cup, which thou
                            Didst fill at the streamlet for me but now.
                            The holy supper is kept indeed
                            In whatso we share with another's need."
                        
                        It was an old story to most of the audience, worn threadbare by many
                            readings, but with these living illustrations, and Miss Bond's wonderful
                                 way of telling it, a new meaning
                            crept into the well-known lines, that thrilled every listener.
                        "Could you understand that, Teddy?" asked old Judge Fairfax, patting his
                            little grandson on the head.
                        "Course!" exclaimed seven-year-old Ted, who had followed his sister Sally
                            to every rehearsal.
                        "When you give money to people just to get rid of 'em, and because you
                            feel you'd ought to, it doesn't count for anything. But if you divide
                            something you've got, and would like to keep it all yourself, because
                            you love to, and are sorry for 'em, then it counts a pile. Sir Launfal
                            would have popped Jonesy into a 'sylum when he first started out to frnd
                            that gold cup, but when he came back he'd 'a' worked like a horse
                            getting up a benefit for him, and would have divided his own home with
                            him, if he hadn't been living at his grandmother's, and couldn't."
                        An amused smile went around that part of the audience which overheard
                            Ted's shrilly given explanation.
                        Pictures from the "Idylls of the King" followed  in rapid succession, and then came the prettiest of all,
                            being the one in which Keith was made a knight. Virginia as queen, her
                            short black hair covered by a powdered wig, and a long court-train
                            sweeping behind her, stood touching his shoulder with the jewel-hilted
                            sword, as he knelt at her feet. Lloyd and Sally Fairfax, Julia Ferris,
                            and a dozen other pretty girls of the neighbourhood, helped to fill out
                            the gay court scene, while all the boys that could be persuaded to take
                            part were dressed up for heralds, guardsmen, pages, and knights. That
                            tableau had to be shown four times, and then the audience kept on
                            applauding as if they never intended to stop.
                        The last one in this series of tableaux was the Hall of the Shields, as
                            Keith had described it to Jonesy. A whole row of dazzling shields hung
                            across the back of the stage, emblazoned with the arms of all the old
                            knights whose names have come down to us in song or story. Then for the
                            first time that evening Miss Bond came out on the stage where she could
                            be seen, and told the story of the death of King Arthur, and the passing
                            away of the order of the Round Table. She told it so well that  little Ted Fairfax listened th his mouth
                            open, seeming to see the great arm that rose out of the water to take
                            back the king's sword into the sea, from which it had been given him. An
                            arm like a giant's, "clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful, that
                            caught th. sword by the hilt, flourished it three times, aid drew it
                            under the mere."
                        "True, 'the old order changeth,'" said Miss Bond, "but knighthood has not passed away. The flower of chivalry has blossomed
                            anew in this new world, and America, too, has her Hall of the
                            Shields."
                        Just a moment the curtains were drawn together, and then were widely
                            parted again, as a chorus of voices rang out with the words:
                        
                            "Hail, Columbia, happy land;
                            Hail, ye heroes, heaven-born band!":
                        
                        In that moment, on every shield had been hung the pictured face of some
                            well-known man who had helped to make his country a power among the
                            nations; presidents, patriots, philanthropists, statesmen, inventors,
                            and poets,--there they were, from army and navy, city and farm, college
                            halls and humble cabins,--a long,  long
                            line, and the first was Washington, and the last was the " Hero of
                            Manila."
                        Cheer after cheer went up, and it might have been well to have ended the
                            programme there, but to satisfy the military-loving little Ginger, one
                            more was added.
                        "There ought to be a Goddess of Liberty in it," she insisted, "because it
                            is Washington's birthday; and if we had been doing it by ourselves we
                            were going to have something in it about Cuba, on papa's account."
                        So when the curtain rose the last time, it was on Sally Fairfax as a
                            gorgeous Goddess of Liberty, conferring knighthood on two boys who stood
                            for the Army and Navy, while a little dark-eyed ,girl knelt at their
                            feet as Cuba, the distressed maiden whom their chivalry had rescued.
                        It was late when the performance closed; later still when the children
                            reached home that night, for Mrs. MacIntyre had determined to have a
                            flash-light picture taken of them, and they had to wait until the
                            photographer could send home for his camera.
                        After they reached the house they could hardly be persuaded to undress.
                            Virginia trailed up and down the halls in her royal  robes, Malcolm clanked around in his suit of mail and
                            plumed helmet, and Keith  stood before a mirror, admiring the
                            handsome little figure it Showed him.
                        "I hate to take it off," he said, fingering the dazzling collar, ablaze
                            with jewels. " I'd Like to be a knight sword always, and wear a sword
                            and spurs every day."
                        "So would I," said Malcolm, beginning to yawn sleepily. "I wish that
                            Jonesy had been well enough to go to-night. Isn't it splendid that the
                            Benefit turned out so well? Aunt Allison says there is plenty of money
                            now to get Jonesy's clothes and pay his board till papa comes, and send
                            him back to Barney, too, if papa thinks best and hasn't any better
                            plan."
                        
                        "I wish there'd been enough money to buy a nice little home out here in
                            the country for him and Barney. Wouldn't it have been lovely if there
                            had a-been?" cried Keith.
                        "Well, I should say!" answered Malcolm. "Maybe we can have another
                            benefit some day and make enough for that."
                        With this pleasant prospect before them, they laid aside their knightly
                            garments, hoping to put them on again soon in Jonesy's behalf, and
                            talked about the home that might be his some day, until they fell
                            asleep.
                        The flash-light pictures of the three children were all that the fondest
                            grandmother could wish. As soon as they came, Keith carried his away to
                            his room to admire in private. "It is so pretty that it doesn't seem it
                            can be me," he said, propping it up on the desk before him. " I wish
                            that I could look that way always."
                        The next time that Miss Allison went into the room she found that Keith
                            had written under it in his round, boyish hand, a quotation that had
                            taken his fancy the first time he heard it. It was in one of Miss Bond's
                            stories, and he repeated it until he learned it: "Live
                                pure,  speak truth, right the wrong,
                                follow the king; else wherefore born?"
                        She asked him about it at bedtime. "Why, that's our motto," he explained.
                            "Malcolm has it written under his, too. We've made up our minds to be a
                            sort of knight, just as near the real thing as we can, you know, and
                            that is what knights have to do: live pure, and speak truth, and right
                            the wrong. We've always tried to do the first two, so that won't be so
                            hard. It's righting the wrong that will be the tough job, but we have
                            done it a little teenty, weenty bit for Jonesy, don't you think, auntie?
                            It was all wrong that he should have such a hard time and be sent to an
                            asylum away from Barney, when we have you all and everything nice.
                            Malcolm and I have been talking it over. If we could do something to
                            keep him from growing up into a tramp like that awful man that brought
                            him here, wouldn't that be as good a deed as some that the real knights
                            did? Wouldn't that be serving our country, too, Aunt Allison, just a
                            little speck?" He asked the question anxiously. Malcolm said nothing,
                            but also waited with a wistful look for her answer.
                        
                        "My dear little Sir Galahads," she said, bending over to give each of the
                            boys a goodnight kiss, "you will be 'really truly' knights if you can
                            live up to the motto you have chosen. Heaven help you to be always as
                            worthy of that title as you are to-night!"
                        Keith held her a moment, with both arms around her neck. "What does that
                            mean, auntie?" he asked. "That is what the professor said,
                            too,--Galahad."
                        "It is too late to explain to you to-night," she said, "but I will tell
                            you sometime soon, dear."
                        It was several days before she reminded them of that promise. Then she
                            called them into her room and told them the story of Sir Galahad, the
                            maiden knight, whose " strength was as the strength of ten because his
                            heart was pure." Then from a little morocco case, lined with purple
                            velvet, she took two pins that she had bought in the city that morning.
                            Each was a little white enamel flower with a tiny diamond in the centre,
                            like a drop of dew.
                        "You can't wear armour in these days," she said, as she fastened one on
                            the lapel of each boy's coat, " but this shall be the badge of your  knighthood,--'wearing the white flower of
                            a blameless life.' The little pins will help you to remember, maybe, and
                            will remind you that you are pledged to right the wrong wherever you
                            find it, in little things as well as great."
                        It was a very earnest talk that followed. The boys came out from her room
                            afterward, wearing the tiny white pins, and with a sweet seriousness in
                            their faces. A noble purpose had been born in their hearts ; but alas
                            for chivalry! the first thing they did was to taunt Virginia with the
                            fact that she could never be a knight because she was only a girl.
                        "I don't care," retorted Ginger, quickly. "I can be a--a--patriot, anyhow, and that's lots better."
                        The boys laughed, and she flushed angrily.
                        "They ought to mean the same thing exactly in this day of the world,"
                            said Miss Allison, coming up in time to hear the dispute that followed.
                            "Virginia, you shall have a badge, too. Run into my room and bring me
                            that little jewelled flag on my cushion."
                        "I think that this is the very prettiest piece of jewelry you have,"
                            exclaimed Virginia, coming back with the pin. It was a little flag  whose red, white, and blue was made of
                            tiny settings of garnets, sapphires, and diamonds.
                        "You think that, because it is in the shape of a flag," said Miss
                            Allison, with an amused smile. "Well, it shall be yours. See how well it
                            can remind you of the boys' knightly motto. There is the white for the
                            first part, the 'live pure,' and the 'true blue' for the 'speak truth,'
                            and then the red,--surely no soldier's little daughter needs to be told
                            what that stands for, when her own brave father has spilled part of his
                            good red life-blood to 'right the wrong' on the field of battle."
                        "Oh, Aunt Allison! " was all that Virginia could gasp in her delight as
                            she clasped the precious pin tightly in her hand. "Is it mine? For my
                            very own?"
                        "For your very own, dear," was the answer.
                        "Oh, I'm so glad!" cried Virginia, thanking her with a kiss. "I'd a
                            thousand times rather have it than one like the boys'. It means so much
                            more!"
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI.
                        
                            THE LITTLE COLONEL'S TWO RESCUES.
                        
                        EARLY in March, when the crocuses were beginning to
                            bud under the dining-room windows, there came one of those rare spring
                            days that seem to carry the warmth of summer in its sunshine.
                        "Exactly the kind of a day for a picnic," Virginia had said that morning,
                            and when her grandmother objected, saying that the ground was still too
                            damp, she suggested having it in the hay-barn. The boys piled the hay
                            that was left from the winter's supply up on one side of the great airy
                            room, set wide the big double doors, and swept it clean.
                        "It is clean enough now for even grandmother to eat in," said Virginia,
                            as she spread a cloth on the table Unc' Henry had carried out for them.
                            " It's good enough for a queen. Oh, I'll tell you what let's do. Let's
                            play that  Malcolm and I are a wicked king
                            and queen and Lloyd is a 'fair ladye' that we have shut up in a dungeon.
                            This will be a banquet, and while we are eating Keith can be the knight
                            who comes to her rescue and carries her off on his pony."
                        "That's all right," consented Keith, "except the eating part. How can we
                            get our share of the picnic?"
                        "We'll save it for you," answered Virginia, "and you can eat it
                            afterward."
                        "Save enough for Jonesy, too," said Keith. "He shall be my page and help
                            me rescue her. I'll go and ask him now."
                        The month had made a great change in Jonesy. With plenty to eat, his thin
                            little snub-nosed face grew plump and bright. There was a good-humoured
                            twinkle in his sharp eyes, and being quick as a monkey at imitating the
                            movements of those around him, Mrs. MacIntyre found nothing to criticise
                            in his manners when Malcolm and Keith brought him into the house. Their
                            pride in him was something amusing, and seeing that, after all, he was
                            an inoffensive little fellow, she made no more objections to their
                            playing with him.
                        
                        By the time Keith was back again with Jonesy, the other guests had
                            arrived, and the Little Colonel had been lowered into a deep feed-bin,
                            in lieu of a dungeon. The banquet began in great state, but in a few
                            moments was interrupted by a fearful shrieking from the depths of the
                            bin. The fair ladye protested that she would not stay in her
                            dungeon.
                        "There's nasty big spidahs down heah!" she called. "Ow! One is crawlin'
                            on my neck now, and my face is all tangled up in cobwebs! Get me out!
                            Get me out! Quick, Gingah!"
                        The king sprang up to go to her rescue, but was promptly motioned to his
                            seat again by a warning shake of the other crowned head.
                        "Why, of course! There's always spiders in dungeons," called the wicked
                            queen, coolly helping herself to another piece of chicken. " Besides,
                            you should say 'your Majesty' when you are talking to me."
                        "But there's a mouse in heah, too," she called back, in distress. "Oo!
                            Oo! It ran ovah my feet. If you don't make them take me out of heah,
                            Gingah Dudley, I'll do something awful to you? Murdah! Murdah! " she
                            yelled, pounding on the sides of the bin with both her 
                            
                                "THE LITTLE COLONEL HAD BEEN LOWERED INTO A DEYP
                                    FEED-BIN."
                            
                            
                             fists, and stamping her little foot in a
                            furious rage.
                        Seeing that Lloyd was really terrified, and fearing that her screams
                            would bring some one from the house, the royal couple and their guests
                            sprang to the rescue, nearly upsetting the banquet as they did so. The
                            game would have been broken up then, when she was lifted out from the
                            feed-bin, red and angry, if it had not been for the king's great tact.
                            He brushed the cobwebs from her face and hair, and even got down on his
                            royal knees to ask her pardon.
                        His polite coaxing finally had its effect on the little lady, and he
                            persuaded her to climb a ladder into a loft just above them. Here on a
                            pile of clean hay, beside an open window that looked across a peaceful
                            meadow, her anger cooled. Towers were far more comfortable than
                            dungeons, in her opinion, and when Malcolm came up the ladder with a
                            plateful of the choicest morsels of the feast, she began to enjoy her
                            part of the play. Jonesy was sent to inform his knight of the change
                            from dungeon to tower, and the banquet went merrily on.
                        He found Keith waiting below the barn, with his pony tied to a fence. On
                            the other side of  the fence lay the
                            railroad track, which skirteca the back of Mrs. Maclntyre's place for
                            over half a mile.
                        "Do you see that hand-car ?" asked Keith, pointing with his riding-whip
                            to one on the track. " The section boss let Malcolm and me ride up and
                            down on it all afternoon one day this winter. Some workman left it on
                            the switch while ago, and while you were up at the barn I got two
                            darkeys to move it for me. They didn't want to at first, but I knew that
                            there'd be no train along for an hour, and told 'em so, and they finally
                            did it for a dime apiece. As soon as I rescue Lloyd I'll dash down here
                            on my pony with her behind me. Then we'll slip through the fence and get
                            on the hand-car, and be out of sight around the curve before the rest
                            get here. They won't know where on earth we've gone, and it will be the
                            best joke on them. It's down grade all the way to the section-house, so
                            I can push it easily enough by myself, but I'll need your help coming
                            back, maybe. S'pose you cut across lots to the section-house as soon as
                            I start to the barn, and meet me there. It isn't half as far that way,
                            so you'll get there as soon as we do."
                        
                        "All right," said Jonesy. "I'm your kid."
                        "You should say, "Tis well, Sir Knight, I fly to do thy bidding,'"
                            prompted Keith.
                        
                        Jonesy grinned. He could not enter into the spirit of the play as the
                            others did. "Aw, I'll be on time," he said; then, as Keith untied his
                            pony, started on a run across the fields.
                        The Lady Lloyd had not finished her repast 
                            when her rescuer appeared, but she put the plate down on the hay to
                            await her return, and obediently climbed down the ladder he placed for
                            her. They reached the fence before the banqueters knew that she had
                            escaped. Flinging the pony's bridle over a fence-post, when they reached
                            the edge of the field, the brave knight crawled through the fence and
                            pulled Lloyd after him, tearing her dress, much to that dainty little
                            lady's extreme disgust.
                        By the time the king and his guard were mounted in pursuit, on the other
                            pony which stood in waiting, the runaways were in the hand-car. It moved
                            slowly at first, although Keith was strong for his age, and his hardy
                            little muscles were untiring.
                        "Isn't it lovely ? " cried Lloyd, as they moved faster and faster and
                            swept around the curve. "I wish we could go all the way to Louisville on
                            this." The warm March wind fanned her pink cheeks, and blew her soft
                            light hair into her eyes.
                        Jonesy was waiting at the section-house, and waved his cap as they
                            passed. " We're going on, around the next bend," shouted Keith, as  they passed him. "Whoop-la! this is fine,
                            and not a bit hard to work!"
                        "What will the wicked queen think when she can't find us?" asked Lloyd,
                            laughing happily, as they sped on down the track.
                        "She'll think that I am a magician and have spirited you away," said
                            Keith.
                        "Then if you are a magician you ought to change her into a nasty black
                            spidah, to pay her back fo' shuttin' me up with them!" Lloyd was
                            delighted with this new play. For the time it seemed as if she really
                            were escaping from a castle prison. Faster and faster they went. Jonesy,
                            who had followed them to the second curve, stood watching them with
                            wistful eyes, wishing he could be with them. They passed the depot, and
                            then the hand-car seemed to grow smaller and smaller as it rolled away,
                            until it was only a moving speck in the distance. Then he turned and
                            walked back to the section-house.
                        "I s'pect we've gone about far enough," said Keith, after awhile. "We'd
                            better turn around now and go back, or the picnic will all be over
                            before we get our share. Let's wait here a minute till I rest my arms,
                            and then we'll start."
                        
                        The place where they had stopped was the loneliest part of the track that
                            could be found in miles, on either side. It was in the midst of a thick
                            beech woods, and the twitter of a bird, now and then, was the only sound
                            in all the deep stillness.
                        "What lovely green moss on that bank!" cried the Little Colonel.
                            "Wouldn't it make a beautiful carpet for our playhouse down by the old
                            mill?"
                        "I'll get you some," said Keith, gallantly springing from the car and
                            clambering up the bank. Taking out his knife, he began to cut great
                            squares of the velvety green moss, and pile it up to carry back to the
                            hand-car.
                        Meanwhile Jonesy waited at the section. house, digging his heels into the
                            cinders that lined the track, and looking impatiently down the road.
                            Presently the section boss came limping along painfully, and sat down on
                            the bank in the warm spring sunshine. He had dropped a piece of heavy
                            machinery on his foot, the week before, and was only able to hobble
                            short distances.
                        Everybody in the Valley was interested in Jonesy since the fire and the
                            Benefit had made  him so well known, and
                            the man was glad of this opportunity to satisfy his curiosity about the
                            boy. Jonesy, with all the fearlessness of a little street gamin brought
                            up in a big city, answered him fearlessly, even saucily at times, much
                            to the man's amusement.
                        "So you want to get a job around here, do you?" said the man, presently,
                            with a grin. "Maybe I can give you one. Know anything about
                            railroadin'?"
                        "Heaps," answered Jonesy. "Well, I'd ought to, seein' as I've lived next
                            door to the engine yards all my life, and spent my time dodgin' the cop
                            on watch there, when I was tryin' to steal rides on freight-cars and
                            such."
                        "Is that what you're hangin' around here now for ?" asked the man, with a
                            good-natured twinkle in his eyes.
                        "Nope ! I'm waiting for that Machityre kid to come back this way. He went
                            down the track a bit ago on a hand-car, playing rescue a princess with
                            one of the girls at the picnic."
                        The section boss sprang up with an exclamation of alarm. " How far's he
                            gone ? " he asked. "There's a special due to pass here in a few
                            minutes."
                        
                        Even while he spoke there sounded far away in the distance, so far that
                            it was like only a faint echo, the whistle of an approaching locomotive.
                            The man hobbled down the track a yard or so and stopped. "What do you
                            suppose they'll do ?" he asked. "There are so many bends in this road,
                            the train may come right on to 'em before the engineer sees 'em. S'pose
                            they'll jump off, or turn and try to come back?"
                        Jonesy glanced around wildly a second, and then sprang forward toward the
                            man.
                        "Give me the switch-key!" he cried, in a high voice, shrill with
                            excitement. "You can't run, but I can. Give me the switch-key!"
                            Perplexed by the sudden turn of affairs and the little fellow's
                            commanding tone, the man took the key from his pocket. He realised his
                            own helplessness to do anything, and there was something in Jonesy's
                            manner that inspired confidence. He felt that the child's quick wit had
                            grasped the situation and formed some sensible plan of action.
                        Again the whistle sounded in the distance, and, snatching the key, Jonesy
                            was off down the track like an arrow. The section boss, leaning  heavily on his cane, limped after him as
                            fast as he could.
                        Keith and the Little Colonel, having gathered the moss and started back
                            home, were rolling leisurely along, still talking of magicians and their
                            ilk.
                        "What if we should meet a dragon?" cried the Little Colonel. "A dragon
                            with a scaly green tail, and red eyes and a fiery tongue What would you
                            do then?"
                        "I'd say, 'What! Ho! Thou monster!' and cleave him in twain with my good
                            broadsword, and when he saw its shining blade smite through the air he'd
                            just curl up and die."
                        Keith looked back to smile at the bright laughing face beside him. Then
                            he caught sight of something over his shoulder that made him pause. "Oh,
                            look!" he cried, pointing over the tree-tops behind them. A little puff
                            of smoke, rising up in the distance, trailed along the sky like a long
                            banner. At the same in stant, out of the smoke, sounded the whistle of
                            an approaching engine. The track behind them had so many turns, he could
                            not judge of their distance from it, and for an instant he stopped
                            working the handle bar up and down  too
                            thoroughly frightened to know what to do An older child might have acted
                            differently; might have jumped from the hand-car and left it to be run
                            into by the approaching train, or have hurried back around the bend to
                            flag the engine. But Keith had only one idea left : that was to keep
                            ahead of the train as long as possible. It seemed so far away he thought
                            they could surely reach the depot before it caught up with them, and his
                            sturdy little arms bent to the task.
                        For a moment there was a real pleasure in the exertion. He felt with an
                            excited thrill that he was really running away with the Little Colonel,
                            and rescuing her from a pursuing danger. Suddenly the whistle sounded
                            again, and this time it seemed so close behind them that the Little
                            Colonel gave a terrified glance over her shoulder and then screamed at
                            the sight of the great snorting monster, breathing out fire and smoke,
                            worse than any scaly-tailed dragon that she had ever imagined. It was
                            far down the track but they could hear its terrible rumble as it rushed
                            over a trestle, and the singing of the wires overhead.
                        Keith was straining every muscle now, but it  was like running in a nightmare. His arms moved up and down at a
                            furious speed, but it seemed to him that the hand-car was glued to one
                            spot. It seemed, too, that it had been hours since they first discovered
                            that the engine was after them, and he felt that he would soon be too
                            exhausted to move another stroke. Would the depot never never come in
                            sight?
                        Just then they shot around the curve and caught sight of Jonesy at the
                            depot switch, wildly beckoning with his cap and shouting for them to
                            come on. At that sight, with one supreme effort Keith put his
                            fast-failing strength to the test, and sent the hand-car rolling forward
                            faster than ever. It shot past the switch that Jonesy had unlocked and
                            off to the sidetrack, just as the train bore down upon them around the
                            last bend.
                        There was barely time for Jonesy to set the switch again before it
                            thundered on along the main track past the little depot. Being a
                            special, it did not stop. As it went shrieking by, the engineer cast a
                            curious glance at a handcar on the side-track. A little girl sat on it,
                            a pretty golden-haired child with dark eyes big  with fright, and her face as white as her dress. He
                            wondered what was the matter.
                        For a moment after the shrieking train whizzed by everything seemed
                            deathly still. Keith sat leaning against the embankment, white and limp
                            from exhaustion and the excitement of his close escape. Jonesy was
                            panting and wiping the perspiration from his red face, for he had run
                            like a deer to reach the switch in time.
                        "I couldn't have held out a minute longer," said Keith, presently. " My
                            arms felt like they had gone to sleep, and I was just ready to give up
                            when I caught sight of you. That seemed to give me strength to go on,
                            when I saw what you were at and that it would only be a little farther
                            to go before we would be safe. How did you happen to be at the switch,
                            and know how to set it?"
                        "Hain't lived all my life around engine yards fer nothin'," answered
                            Jonesy. "Why didn't you jump off and flag the train?"
                        "I was so taken by surprise I didn't think of that," answered Keith. "The
                            only thing I knew was that we had to keep ahead of it as long as
                            possible. You've saved my life, Jones 
                            Carter, and I'll never forget it, no matter what comes."
                        "I've been rescued twice to-day," said the Little Colonel, taking a deep
                            breath as she began to recover from her fright. "Jonesy ought to be a
                            knight, too."
                        "That's so!" exclaimed Keith, springing to his feet. "Come on and let's
                            go back to the barn. We'll tell our adventures, and then we'll go
                            through the ceremony of making Jonesy a Sir Something or other. He's
                            certainly won his spurs."
                        "Goin' back on the hand-car?" asked Jonesy.
                        "Not much," answered Keith, with a sickly sort of smile. "Somehow such
                            fast travelling doesn't seem to agree with a fellow. Walking is good
                            enough for me."
                        "Me too!" cried the Little Colonel, tying on her white sunbonnet. "But
                            the first part of it was lovely,--just like flyin'."
                        Jonesy ran back to give the man his key, and was kept answering questions
                            so long that he did not catch up with the other children unt they were
                            in sight of the barn.
                        "After all," said Keith, as the three trudged along together, "maybe we'd
                            better not tell  how near we came to being
                            run over. Grana. mother and Aunt Allison would be dreadfully worried if
                            they should hear of it. They are always worrying for fear something will
                            happen to us."
                        "Mothah would be wild," exclaimed the Little Colonel,
                            "if she knew I had been in any dangah. Maybe she wouldn't let me out of
                            her sight again to play all summah."
                        "Then let's don't tell for a long, long time," proposed Keith. "It'll be
                            our secret, just for us three."
                        "All right," the others agreed. They dropped the subject then, for the
                            barn was just ahead of them, and the gay picnickers came running out,
                            demanding to know where they had been so long.
                        The Little Colonel often spoke of her experience afterward to the two
                            boys, however, and in Keith's day-dreams a home for Jonesy began to
                            crowd out all other hopes and plans.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER VII.
                        
                            A GAME OF INDIAN.
                        
                        KEITH was stiff for a week after his race on the
                            hand-car, but did his groaning in private. lie knew what a commotion
                            would be raised if the matter came to his grandmother's ears. She had
                            lived all winter in constant dread of accidents. Malcolm had been
                            carried home twice in an unconscious state, once from having been thrown
                            from his bicycle, and once from falling through a trap-door in the barn.
                            Keith had broken through the ice on the pond, sprained his wrist while
                            coasting, and walked in half a dozen times with the blood streaming from
                            some wound on his head or face.
                        Virginia had never been hurt, but her hair-breadth escapes would have
                            filled a volume. An amusing one was the time she lassoed a young calf,
                            Indian fashion, to show the boys  how it
                            should be done. Its angry mother was in the next lot, but Virginia felt
                            perfectly safe as she swung her lariat and dragged the bleating calf
                            around the barn-yard. She did not stop to consider that if a cow with
                            lofty ambitions had once jumped over the moon, one which saw its calf in
                            danger might easily leap a low hedge. Malcolm's warning shout came just
                            in time to save her from being gored by the angry animal, who charged at
                            her with lowered horns. She sprang up the ladder leading to the
                            corn-crib window, where she was safe, but she had to hang there until
                            Unc' Henry could be called to the rescue.
                        It was with many misgivings that Mrs. MacIntyre and Miss Allison started
                            to the city one morning in April. It was the first time since the
                            children's coming that they had both gone away at once, and nothing but
                            urgent business would have made them consent to go.
                        The children promised at least a dozen things. They would keep away from
                            the barn, the live stock, the railroad, the ponds, and the cisterns.
                            They would not ride their wheels, climb trees, nor go off the Maclntyre
                            premises, and they would keep a sharp lookout for snakes and 
                            
                                Virginia and the calf.
                            
                            
                             poison ivy, in case they went into the
                            woods for wild flowers.
                        "Seems to me there's mighty little left that a fellow can do," said
                            Keith, when the long list was completed.
                        "Oh, the time will soon pass," said his grandmother, who was preparing to
                            take the eleven o'clock train. "It will soon be lunch-time. Then this is
                            the day for you each to write your weekly letters to your mother, and it
                            is so pretty in the woods now that I am sure you will enjoy looking for
                            violets."
                        Time did pass quickly, as their grandmothe had said it would, until the
                            middle of the after. noon. Then Virginia began to wish for something
                            more amusing than the quiet guessing games they had been playing in the
                            library. The boys each picked up a book, and she strolled off up-stairs,
                            in search of a livelier occupation.
                        In a few minutes she came down, looking like a second Pocahontas in her
                            Indian suit, with her bow and arrows slung over her shoulder.
                        "I am going down to the woods to practise shooting," she announced, as
                            she stopped to look in at the door.
                        
                        "Oh, wait just a minute!" begged Mal. colm, throwing down his book.
                            "Let's all play Indian this afternoon. We'll rig up, too, and build a
                            wigwam down by the spring rock, and make a fire,--grandmother didn't say
                            we couldn't make a fire; that's about the only thing she forgot to tell
                            us not to do."
                        "You can come on when you get ready," answered Virginia. "I'm going now,
                            because it is getting late, but you'll find me near the spring when you
                            come. Just yell."
                        The boys could not hope to rival Virginia's Indian costume, but no
                            wilder-looking little savages ever uttered a war-whoop than the two
                            which presently dashed into the still April woods.
                        Malcolm had ripped some variegated fringe from a table-cover to pin down
                            the sides of his leather leggins. He had borrowed a Roman blanket from
                            Aunt Allison's couch to pin around his shoulders, and emptied several
                            tubes of her most expensive paints to streak his face with hideous
                            stripes and daubs. A row of feathers from the dust-brush was fastened
                            around his forehead by a broad band, and a hatchet from the woodshed
                            provided him with a tomahawk.
                        
                        Keith had no time to arrange feathers. He had taken off his flannels in
                            order to put on an old striped bathing-suit, which he had found in the
                            attic and stored away, intending to use it for swimming in the pond when
                            the weather should grow warm enough. It had no sleeves, and the short
                            trousers had shrunk until they did not half-way reach his knees. Its red
                            and white stripes had faded and the colour run until the whole was a
                            dingy "crushed strawberry" shade. As Malcolm had emptied all the tubes
                            of red paint in his Aunt Allison's box, Keith had to content himself
                            with some other colour. He chose the different shades of green,
                            squeezing the paint out on his plump little legs and arms, and rubbing
                            it around with his fore finger until he was encircled with as many
                            stripes as a zebra. Although the day was warm for the early part of
                            April, the sudden change from his customary clothes and spring flannels
                            to nothing but the airy bathing suit and war-paint made him a trifle
                            chilly; so he completed his costume by putting on. a pair of scarlet
                            bedroom slippers, edged with dark fur.
                        With the dropping of their civilised clothing, the boys. seemed to have
                            dropped all recollection  tions of their
                            professed knighthood, and acted like the little savages they looked.
                        "We're going to shoot with your things awhile, Ginger," shouted Keith,
                            coming suddenly upon her with a whoop, and snatching her bow out of her
                            hands. "You are the squaw, so you have to do all the work. Get down
                            there now behind that rock and make a fire, while we go out and kill a
                            deer. You must build a wigwam, too, by the time we get back. Hear me?
                            I'm a big chief! 'I am Famine--Buckadawin!' and I'll make a living
                            skeleton of you if you don't hustle."
                        Virginia was furious. "I'll not be a squaw!" she cried. " And I'll not
                            build a fire or do anything else if you talk so rudely. If you don't
                            give me back my bow and let me be a chief, too, I'll--I'll get even with
                            you, sir, in a way you won't like I have short hair, and my clothes are
                            more Indian than yours, and I can shoot better than either of you,
                            anyhow! So there! Give me my bow."
                        "What will you do if I won't?"said Keith, teasingly, holding it behind
                            him.
                        "I'll go up to the barn and get a rope, and lasso you like I did that
                            calf, and drag you all  over the place!"
                            cried Virginia, her eyes shining with fierce determination. "She means
                            it, Keith," said Malcolm. "She'll do it sure, if you don't stop teasing.
                            Oh, give  it to her and come along, or it will be dark before
                            we begin to play."
                        Matters went on more smoothly after Malcolm's efforts at peacemaking, and
                            when it was  decided that Ginger could be
                            a brave, too, in. stead of a squaw, they were soon playing together as
                            pleasantly as if they had found the happy hunting grounds. The short
                            afternoon waned fast, and the shadows were growing deep when they
                            reached the last part of the game. Ginger had been taken prisoner, and
                            they were tying her to a tree, with her hands bound securely behind her
                            back. She rather enjoyed this part of it, for she intended to show them
                            how brave she could be.
                        "Now we'll sit around the council fire and decide how to torture her,"
                            said Malcolm, when the captive was securely tied. But the fire was out
                            and they had no matches. The lot fell on Malcolm to run up to the house
                            and get some.
                        "A fire would feel good," said Keith, looking around with a shiver as he
                            seated himself on a log near Ginger. The sun was low in the west, and
                            very little of its light and warmth found its way into the woods where
                            the children were playing.
                        "It makes me think of Hiawatha," said Ginger, looking down at several
                            long streaks of golden light which lay across the ground at her feet.
                            "Don't you remember how it goes?  'And the
                            long and level sunbeams shot their spears into the forest, breaking
                            through its shield of shadow.' Isn't that pretty? I love Hiawatha. I am
                            going to learn pages and pages of it some day. I know all that part
                            about Minnehaha now."
                        "Say it while we are waiting," said Keith, pulling his short trousers
                            down as far as possible, and wishing that he had sleeves, or else that
                            the paint were thicker on his chilly arms.
                        "All right," began Virginia.
                        
                            "' Oh the long and dreary winter I
                            Oh the cold and cruel winter!
                            Ever thicker, thicker, thicker
                            Froze the ice on lake and river.'"
                        
                        "Ugh! Don't!" interrupted Keith, with a shiver. "It makes my teeth
                            chatter, talking about such cold things!"
                        Just then a shout came ringing down the hill, "Oh, Keith! Come here a
                            minute! Quick!"
                        "What do you wa-ant ?" yelled Keith, in return.
                        "Come up here! Quick! Hurry up!"
                        "What do you s'pose can be the matter?" exclaimed Keith, scrambling to
                            his feet. "Maybe the bear has got loose and run away."
                        
                        "Come and untie me first," said Virginia, "and I'll go, too." Keith gave
                            several quick tugs at the many knotted string which bound her, but could
                            not loosen it. Again the call came, impatient and sharp, "Keith ! Oh, Keith!"
                        "Oh, I can't loosen it a bit," said Keith. "You'll have to wait till
                            Malcolm comes with his knife. We'll be back in just a minute. I'll go
                            and see what's the matter."
                        "Be sure that you don't stay!" screamed Ginger, as the scarlet bedroom
                            slippers and green striped legs flashed out of sight through the
                            bushes.
                        "Back--in--a--minute!" sounded shrilly through the woods.
                        Keith found Malcolm on the back porch, pounding excitedly on a box which
                            the express-man had left there a few minutes before.
                        "It's the camera we have been looking for all week," he cried. " Come on
                            and have a look at it."
                        "Ginger said to hurry back," said Keith.
                        "Pshaw! It won't take but a minute. I'll pry the box open in a
                            jiffy."
                        It was harder work than the boys had supposed, to take the tightly nailed
                            lid from its  place, and they were so
                            intent on their work they did not realise how quickly the minutes were
                            passing.
                        "Isn't it a beauty?" exclaimed Malcolm, when it was at last unpacked.
                            "It's lots bigger and finer than the one papa promised. But that's the
                            way he always does. Oh, isn't it a peach!"
                        "I'll tell you what," said Keith, dancing up and down in his excitement,
                            until he looked like a ridiculous little clown in the faded pink
                            bathing-suit and his stripes of green paint, "let's take each other's
                            pictures while we are dressed this way. We may never look so funny
                            again, and we can go down and take Ginger, too, while she is tied to the
                            tree."
                        "Can't now," said Malcolm, "it's too dark down there in the woods by this
                            time. See! there is nothing left now of the sun but those red clouds
                            above the place where it went down. I'm afraid it is too dark even for
                            us up here on the hill; but we can try. You do look funny, just like a
                            jumping-jack or a monkey on a stick."
                        "Surely Ginger won't mind waiting long enough for us to do it," said
                            Keith. "Anyhow  we can never dress up this
                            way again, and grandmother will be coming home very soon, so you take
                            mine quick, and I will take yours."
                        The boys had had some practice before with a cheap little camera, but
                            this required some studying of the printed directions before they could
                            use it. The first time they tried it the plates were put in wrong, and
                            the second time they forgot to remove the cap. There were other things
                            in the box besides the camera: some beautiful pink curlew's wings, a
                            handsomely marked snake skin, and some rare shells that had been picked
                            up on the Gulf coast. Of course the boys had to examine each new
                            treasure as it was discovered. One thing after mother delayed them until
                            it was dusk even in the porch where they stood, and in the woods below a
                            deep twilight had fallen.
                        Every minute that had sped by so rapidly for the boys, seemed an age to
                            the captive Virginia. Her warms ached from the strain of their unusual
                            position. Swarms of gnats flew about, stinging her face, and mosquitoes
                            buzzed teasingly around her ears. She was unable to move a finger to
                            drive them away.
                        When the boys had been gone fifteen minutes  she thought they must have been away hours. At the end of half an
                            hour she was wild with impatience to get loose, but, thinking they might
                            return any minute, she made no sign of her discomfort. She would be as
                            heroic as the bravest brave ever tortured by cruel savages. As long as
                            it was light she kept up her courage, but presently it began to grow
                            dark under the great beech-trees. A frog down by the spring set up a
                            dismal croaking. What if they should not come back, and her grandmother
                            and Aunt Allison should miss the train, and have to stay in the city all
                            night ! Then nobody would come to set her free, and she would have to
                            stay in the lonely woods all by herself, tied to a tree, with her hands
                            behind her back.
                        At that thought she began calling, "Keith! Keith! Malcolm! Oh, Malcolm!"
                            but only an echo came back to her, as it had to the dying Minnehaha,--a
                            far-away echo that mocked her with its teasing cry of "Mal-colm!" Call
                            after call went ringing through the woods, but nobody answered. Nobody
                            came.
                        There was a rustling through the leaves be. hind her, as of a snake
                            gliding around the tree.  She was not
                            afraid of snakes in the daytime, and when she was unbound, but she
                            shrieked and turned cold at the thought of one wriggling across her feet
                            while she was powerless to get  away. Every time a twig
                            snapped, or there Swas a fluttering in the bushes, she strained her eyes
                            to see what horrible thing might be creeping up toward her. She had S no
                            thought that live Indians might be lurking about, but all the terrible
                            stories she had ever heard, of the days of Daniel Boone and the early
                            settlers, came back to haunt the woods with a nameless dread.
                        She felt that she was standing on the real Kentucky that the Indians
                            meant, when they gave the State its name. "Dark and bloody
                                ground! Dark and bloody ground!" something  thing seemed to say just behind her. Then the trees took
                            it up, and all the leaves whispered, "Sh--sh, sh! Dark and
                                bloody ground! Sh--sh!"
                        At that she was so frightened that she began calling again, but the sound
                            of her own voice startled her. "Oh, they are not coming," she thought,
                            with a miserable ache in her throat, that seemed swelling bigger and
                            bigger. "I'll have to stay here in the woods all night. Oh, mamma!
                            mamma!" she moaned, ("I am so scared! If you could only come back and
                            get your poor little girl!"
                        Up to this time she had bravely fought back the tears, but just then a
                            screech-owl flapped down from a branch above her with such a dismal
                            hooting that she gave a nervous start and a cry of terror. "Oh, that
                            frightened me so!" she sobbed. "I don't believe I can stand it to be out
                            here all night alone with so many horrible creepy things everywhere. And
                            nobody cares ! Nobody but papa and mamma, and they are away, way off in
                            Cuba. Maybe I'll never see them any more." At that the tears rolled down
                            her face, and she could not move a hand to wipe them away. To be so
                            little and miserable  and forsaken, so
                            worn out with waiting and so helpless among all these unknown horrors
                            that the dark woods might hold, was worse torture to the imaginative
                            child than any bodily pain could have been.
                        It was just as her last bit of courage oozed away, and she began to cry,
                            that the boys suddenly realised how long they had left her. "It must be
                            as dark as a pocket in the woods by this time," exclaimed Malcolm. "What
                            do you suppose Ginger will say to us for leaving her so long?"
                        "You will have to take a knife to cut her loose," said Keith. " I tried
                            to untie the knots before I came away, but I couldn't move them."
                        "My pocket-knife is up-stairs," answered Malcolm. "I'll get something in
                            the dining-room that will do."
                        He was rushing out again with a carving-knife in his hand, when he came
                            face to face with his grandmother and Aunt Allison. The boys had been so
                            interested in their camera that they had not heard the train whistle. or
                            the sound of footsteps coming up on the front veranda. Pete was lighting
                            the hall lamps as the ladies came-in, and he turned his back to hide the
                            broad  grin on his face, as he thought of
                            the sight which would soon greet them. Mrs. MacIntyre gave a gasp of
                            astonishment and sank down in the nearest chair as Malcolm came dashing
                            into the bright lamplight.
                        His turkey feathers were all awry, standing out in a dozen different
                            directions from his head, his blanket trailed behind him, and the fringe
                            was hanging in festoons from his leggins, where it had come unpinned.
                            The red paint on his face made him look as if he had been in a fight
                            with the carving-knife he carried, and had had the skin peeled off his
                            face in patches.
                        Wild as he looked, his appearance was tame beside that of the
                            impish-looking little savage who skipped in after him, in the scarlet
                            bedroom slippers, pink striped bathing-suit and green striped skin.
                        "Keith MacIntyre, what have you been doing to yourself?" gasped his
                            grandmother. Both boys began an excited exclamation, but were stopped by
                            Miss Allison's question, "Where is Virginia? Have you two little savages
                            scalped her?"
                        "She's tied to a tree down by the spring," answered Malcolm. "We are just
                            starting  down there now to cut her loose.
                            You see we were playing Indian, and she was tied up to be tortured, and
                            we forgot all about her being there-"
                        But Miss Allison waited to hear no more. "The poor little thing!" she
                            exclaimed. "Tied out there alone in the dark woods! How could you be so
                            cruel? It is enough to frighten her into spasms."
                        "I'm awfully sorry, Aunt Allison!" began Malcolm, but his aunt was
                            already out of hearing. Out of the door she ran, through the dewy grass
                            and the stubble of the field beyond, regardless of her dainty spring
                            gown, or her new patent leather shoes. Malcolm and Keith dashed out
                            after her, ran on ahead and were at the spring before she had climbed
                            the fence into the woodland.
                        Virginia was not crying when the boys reached her. She remembered that
                            she had once called Malcolm "Rain-in-the-face" because she caught him
                            crying over something that seemed to her a very little reason, and she
                            did not intend to give him a chance to taunt her in the same way. She
                            was glad that it was too dark for him to notice her tear-swollen
                            eyes.
                        
                        "Whew! It's dark down here!" said Keith. "Were you frightened, Ginger?"
                            he asked, as he helped Malcolm unfasten the cords that bound her. But
                            Ginger made no reply to either questions or apologies. She walked on in
                            dignified silence, too deeply hurt by their neglect, too full of a sense
                            of the wrong they had done her, to trust herself to speak without
                            crying, and she intended to be game to the last. But when she came upon
                            Miss Allison, and suddenly found herself folded safe in her arms, with
                            pitying kisses and comforting caresses, she clung to her, sobbing as if
                            her heart would break.
                        "Oh, auntie! It was so awful!" was all she could say, but she repeated it
                            again and again, until Miss Allison, who had never seen her so excited
                            before, was alarmed. The boys, who had run on ahead to the house again,
                            before she gave way to her feelings, were inclined to look upon it all
                            as a good joke, for they had no idea how much she had suffered, and did
                            not like it because she would not speak to them. They changed their
                            minds when Miss Allison came out of Virginia's room a little later, and
                            told them that the fright had given the child  a nervous chill, and that she had cried herself to
                            sleep.
                        "We didn't mean to do it," said Keith, penitently. "We just forgot, and
                            I'm mighty sorry, truly I am, auntie!"
                        "I am not scolding you," said Miss Allison, "but if I were either of you
                            boys, I wouldn't wear my little white flower when I dressed for dinner
                            to-night. Instead of being the protector of a distressed maiden, as the
                            old knights would have said, you have done her a wrong,--a serious one I
                            am afraid,--and that wrong ought to be made right as far as possible
                            before you are worthy to wear the badge of knighthood again."
                        "We'll go and beg her pardon right now," said Malcolm.
                        "No, she is asleep now, and I do not want her to be disturbed. Besides, a
                            mere apology is not enough. You must make some kind of atonement. The
                            first thing for you to do, however, is to get some turpentine and remove
                            that paint. Where did you get it, boys?"
                        "Out of your paint-box, Aunt Allison," said Malcolm. "We didn't think you
                            would care. I was only going to take a little, but it  soaked in so fast that I had to use two
                            tubes of it."
                        "I used more than that," confessed Keith, looking at her with his big
                            honest eyes; "but I got so interested pretending that I was turning into
                            a real Indian, that I never thought about its being anybody else's
                            paint, Aunt Allison, truly I didn't!"
                        She turned away to hide a smile. The earnest little face above the
                            striped body was so very comical. Picking up several of the empty tubes
                            that had been squeezed quite flat, she read the labels. "Rose madder and
                            carmine," she said, solemnly, "two of my very most expensive
                            paints."
                        "Dear me!" sighed Malcolm, "then there's another wrong that's got to be
                            righted. I guess Keith and I weren't cut out for knights. I'm beginning
                            to think that it's a mighty tough business anyhow."
                        That night, when the boys came down to dinner, no little white flower
                            with its diamond dewdrop centre shone on the lapel of either coat. It
                            had been a work :f time to scrub off the paint, and then it took, almost
                            as long to. get: rid of the turpentine, so that dinner was  ready long before Keith was finally clad
                            in his flannels. "My throat is sore," he complained to Malcolm at
                            bedtime, but did not mention it to any one else that night. He sat on
                            the side of his bed a moment before undressing, with one foot across his
                            knee, staring thoughtfully at the lamp. Presently, with one shoe in his
                            hand and the other half unlaced, he hopped over to the dressing-table
                            and stood before it, looking at first one picture and then another.
                        Eight different photographs of his mother were ranged along the table
                            below the wide mirror, some taken in evening dress, some in simple
                            street costume, and each one so beautiful that it would have been hard
                            to decide which one had the greatest charm.
                        "I wish mamma was here to-night," said Keith, softly, with a little
                            quiver of his lip. "Seems like she's been gone almost always."
                        He picked up a large Roman locket of beaten silver that lay open on the
                            table. It held two exquisitely painted miniatures on ivory. One was the
                            same sweet face that looked out at him from each of the photographs, the
                            other was his father's. It showed a handsome young  fellow with strong, clean-shaven face, with eyes like
                            Keith's, and the same lordly poise of the fine head that Malcolm
                            had.
                        "Good night, papa, good night, mamma!" whispered Keith, touching his lips
                            hastily to each picture while Malcolm's back was turned. There were
                            tears in his eyes. Somehow he was so miserably homesick.
                        Next morning, although Keith's throat was not so sore, he was burning
                            with fever by the time his lessons were over. Before his grandmother saw
                            him he was off on his wheel for a long ride, and then, because he was so
                            hot when he came back, he slipped away to the pond with the pink
                            bathing-suit under his coat, and took the swim that he had been looking
                            forward to so long. Nobody knew where he was, and he stayed in the water
                            until his lips and finger. nails were blue. The morning after that he
                            was too ill to get up, and Mrs. Maclntyre sent for a doctor.
                        "He has always been so perfectly well, and seemed to have such a strong
                            constitution, that I cannot allow myself to believe this will be
                            anything serious," said Mrs. Maclntyre, but at the end of the third day
                            he was so much worse  that she sent to the
                            city for a trained nurse, and telegraphed for his father and mother.
                        They had already left Florida, and were yachting up the Atlantic coast on
                            their way home when the message reached them.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII.
                        
                            FAIRCHANCE."
                        
                        MALCOLM did his best to atone to Virginia for what she
                            had suffered from the forgetfulness of the two little Indians, but poor
                            Keith was too ill to remember anything about it. He did not know his
                            father and mother when they came, and tossed restlessly about, talking
                            wildly of things they could not understand. It was the first time he had
                            ever been so ill, and as they watched him lying there day after day,
                            burning with fever, and growing white and thin, a great fear came upon
                            them that he would never be any better.
                        No one put that fear into words, but little by little it crept from heart
                            to heart like a wintry fog, until the whole house felt its chill. The
                            sweet spring sounds and odours came rushing in at every window from the
                            sunny world outside, but it might as well have been midwinter  No one paid any heed while that little
                            life hung in the balance. The servants went through the house on tiptoe.
                            Malcolm and Virginia haunted the halls to discover from the grave faces
                            of the older people what they were afraid to ask, and Mrs. MacIntyre was
                            kept busy answering the inquiries of the neighbours. Scarcely an hour
                            passed that some one did not come to ask about Keith, to leave flowers,
                            or to proffer kindly services. Everybody who knew the little fellow
                            loved him. His bright smile and winning manner had made him a host of
                            friends.
                        There was no lack of attention. His father and mother, Miss Allison, and
                            the nurse watched every breath, every pulse-beat; and a dozen times in
                            the night his grandmother stole to the door to look anxiously at the wan
                            little face on the pillow.
                        "It is so strange," said his mother to the nurse one day. "He keeps
                            talking about a white flower. He says that he can't right the wrong
                            unless he wears it, and that Jonesy will have to be shut up and never
                            find his brother again. What do you suppose he means?"
                        The nurse shook her head. She did not know 
                            just then Mrs. Maclntyre heard her name called softly, "Elise," and her
                            husband beckoned her to come out into the hall. " I want to show you
                            something in Allison's room," he said, leading her down the hall to his
                            sister's apartment. On each side of the low writing-desk stood a large
                            photograph, one of Malcolm in his suit of mail, the other of Keith in
                            the costume of jewel-embroidered velvet, like the little Duke of
                            Gloster's.
                        "Oh, Sydney! How beautiful!" she exclaimed, as she swept across the room
                            and knelt down before the desk for a better view. Leaning her arms on
                            the desk, she looked into Keith's pictured face with hungry eyes." Isn't
                            he lovely?" she repeated. "Oh, he'll never look like that again! I know
                            it! I know it!" she sobbed, remembering how white was the little face on
                            the pillow that she had just left.
                        Mr. MacIntyre bent over her, his own handsome face white and haggard. He
                            looked ill himself, from the constant watching and anxiety. "I'd give
                            anything in the world that I own! Everything!" he groaned. "I'd do
                            anything, sacrifice anything, to see him as well and sturdy as he looks
                            there!"
                        
                        Then he caught up the picture. "What's this written underneath?" he
                            asked, "It is in Keith's own handwriting: 'Live pure,
                                speak
                            
                            truth, right the wrong, follow the king. Else wherefore
                                born'
                        "What does it mean, Allison?" he asked, 
                            turning to his sister, who was resting on a couch by the window. "It is
                            written under Malcolm's picture, too."
                        "The dear little Sir Galahads," she said, "I sent for you to tell you
                            about them. The boys intended the pictures as a surprise for you and
                            Elise, so we never sent them. They wanted to tell you themselves about
                            the Benefit and the little waif they gave it for."
                        She took a little pin from a jewel-case under the sofa pillows, and
                            reaching over, dropped it in her brother's hand. It was a tiny flower of
                            white enamel, with a diamond dewdrop in the centre.
                        "You may have noticed Malcolm wearing one like it," she said, and then
                            she told them the story of Jonesy and the bear and all that their coming
                            had led to: the Benefit, the new order of knighthood, and the awakening
                            of the boys to a noble purpose.
                        "The boys fully expect you to stand by them in all this, Sydney," she
                            said, in conclusion, "and play fairy godfather for Jonesy henceforth and
                            for ever. One night, when Keith came up to confess some mischief he had
                            been into during the day, he said:
                        
                        "'Aunt Allison, this wearing the white flower of a blameless life isn't
                            as easy as it is cracked up to be; but having this little pin helps a
                            lot. I just put my hand on that like the real knights used to do on
                            their sword-hilts, and repeat my motto. It will be easier when papa
                            comes home. Since I've known Jonesy, and heard him tell about the hard
                            times some people have that he knows, it seems to me there's an awful
                            lot of wrong in the world for somebody to set right. Some nights I can
                            hardly go to sleep for thinking about it, and wishing that I were grown
                            up so that I could begin to do my part. I wish papa could be here now.
                            He'd make a splendid knight; he is so big and good and handsome. I don't
                            s'pose King Arthur himself was any better or braver than my father
                            is.'"
                        A tear splashed down from the mother's eyes as she listened, and, falling
                            on the tiny white flower as it lay in her husband's hand, glistened
                            beside the dewdrop centre like another diamond. "Oh, Sydney!" she
                            exclaimed, in a heart-broken way. Something very like a sob shook the
                            man's broad shoulders, and, turning abruptly, he strode out of the
                            room.
                        
                        Down in the dim, green library, where the blinds had been drawn to keep
                            it cool, he threw himself into a chair beside the table. Propping
                            Keith's picture up in front of him against a pile of books, he leaned
                            forward, gazing at it earnestly. He had never realised before how much
                            he loved the little son, who hour by hour seemed slowly slipping farther
                            away from him. The pictured face looked full into his as if it would
                            speak. It wore the same sweet, trustful expression that had shone there
                            the night he talked to Jonesy of the Hall of the Shields; the same
                            childish purity that had moved the old professor to lay his hands upon
                            his head and call him Galahad.
                        All that gentle birth, college breeding, wealth, and travel could give a
                            man, were Sydney Maclntyre's, and yet. measuring himself by Keith's
                            standard of knighthood, he felt himself sadly lacking. He had given
                            liberally to charities hundreds of dollars, because it was often easier
                            for him to write out a check than to listen to somebody's tale of
                            suffering. But aside from that he had left the old world to wag on as
                            best it could, with its grievous load of wrong and sorrow.
                        
                        A man is not apt to trouble himself as to how it wags for those outside
                            his circle of friends, when the generations before him have spent their
                            time laying up a fortune for him to enjoy. But this man was beginning to
                            trouble himself about it now, as he paced restlessly up and down the
                            room. He was not thinking now about the things that usually occupied
                            him, his social duties, his home or club, or yacht or horses or kennels.
                            He was not planning some new pleasure for his friends or family, he was
                            wondering what he could do to be worthy of the exalted regard in which
                            he was held by his little sons. What wrong could he set right, to prove
                            himself really as noble as they thought him ? He was their ideal of all
                            that was generous and manly, and yet--
                        "What have I ever done," he asked himself, "to make them think so? If I
                            were to be taken out of the world to-morrow, I would be leaving it
                            exactly as I found it. Who could point to my coffin and say, 'Laws are
                            better, politics are purer, or times are not so hard for the masses now,
                            because this one man. willed to lift up his fellows as far as the might,
                            of one strong life can reach?' But they will say that  of Malcolm, and Keith, if he lives--ah,
                            if he lives!"
                        An hour later the door opened, and Malcolm came in, softly. "Keith is
                            asking for you, papa," he said, with a timid glance into his father's
                            haggard face. Then he came nearer, and slipped his hand into the man's
                            strong fingers, and together they went up the stairs to answer the
                            summons.
                        "Did you want me, Keith?"
                        The head did not turn on the pillow. The languid eyes opened only
                            half-way, but there was recognition in them now, and one little hand was
                            raised to lay itself lovingly against his father's cheek.
                        "What is it, son?"
                        The weak little voice tried to answer, but the words came only in gasps.
                            "Brother knows--about Jonesy--keep him from being a tramp! Please let
                            me, papa--do that much good--in my life "else wherefore--born?'"
                        "What is it, Keith?" asked his father, bending over him. "Papa doesn't
                            exactly understand. But you can have anything you want, my boy.
                            Anything! I'll do whatever you ask."
                        
                        "Malcolm knows," was the answer. Then the voice seemed somewhat stronger
                            for an instant, and a faint smile touched Keith's lips. "Give my half of
                            the bear to Ginger. Now--may I have--my--white--flower? "
                        Throwing back his coat, his father unpinned the little badge from his
                            vest, where he had fastened it for safe-keeping a short time before in
                            the library. A pleased expression flitted over the child's face, as he
                            saw where it had been resting, and when it was fastened in the front of
                            his little embroidered nightshirt, his hand closed over the pin as if it
                            were something very precious, and he were afraid of losing it again.
                        "Wearing the white flower," they heard him whisper, and then the little
                            knight slept.
                        It was hours afterward when he roused again,--hours when the faintest
                            noise had not been allowed in the house; when the servants had been sent
                            to the cottage, and Unc' Henry stationed at the front gate, that no one
                            might drive up the avenue.
                        Virginia, in a hammock on the veranda, scarcely dared draw a deep breath
                            till she  heard the doctor coming down the
                            stairs, just before dark. Then she knew by his face that prayers and
                            skill and tender nursing had not been in vain, and that Keith would
                            live.
                        So much can happen in a week. In the seven days that followed Keith
                            gradually grew strong enough to be propped up in bed a little while at a
                            time; Captain Dudley and his wife came home from Cuba, and Mr. MacIntyre
                            began to carry out the promise he had made to Keith that day when they
                            feared most he could not live.
                        The whole Valley rejoiced in the first and second happenings, and were
                            too much occupied in them to notice the third. Carriages rolled in and
                            out of the great entrance gate all day long, for Mrs. Dudley had always
                            been a favourite with the old neighbours, and they gave a warm welcome
                            to her and her gallant husband. Virginia followed her father and mother
                            about like a loving shadow, and Keith was so interested in the wonderful
                            stories they told of their Cuban experiences that he never noticed how
                            much his father and Malcolm were away from home. Sometimes they would be
                                 gone all day together, consulting
                            with the old professor, overseeing carpenters, or making hasty trips to
                            the city. Jonesy's home, that had been so long only a beautiful
                            air-castle, was rapidly taking shape in wood and stone, and the painters
                            would soon be at work on it.
                        Mr. MacIntyre had never been more surprised than he was when Malcolm
                            unfolded their plan to him. It did not seem possible that two children
                            could have thought of it all, and arranged every detail without the help
                            of some older head.
                        "It just grew," said Malcolm, in explanation. "First Keith said how
                            lovely it would have been if we had made enough money at the Benefit to
                            have bought a home for Jonesy in the country, where he ,ould have a fair
                            chance to grow up a good man. Just a comfortable little cottage with a
                            garden, where he could be out-of-doors all the time, instead of in the
                            dirty city streets; then nobody could call him a 'child of the slums'
                            any more. Then we said it would be better if there were some fields back
                            of the garden, so that he could learn to be a farmer when he was older,
                            and have some way to make  a living. We
                            talked about it every night when we went to bed, and kept putting a
                            little more and a little more to it, until it was as real to us as if we
                            had truly seen such a place. There were vines on the porches, and a big
                            Newfoundland dog on the front steps, and a cow and calf in the pasture,
                            and a gentle old horse that could plough and that Jonesy could ride to
                            water.
                        "We told Ginger, and she thought of a lot more things; some little
                            speckled pigs in a pen, and kittens in the hay-mow, and ducks on the
                            pond, and an orchard, and roses in the yard. She said we ought to call
                            the place "Fairchance," because that's what it would mean for Jonesy and
                            Barney (you know we would send for Barney first thing we did, of
                            course), and it was Ginger who first thought of getting some nice man
                            and his wife to take care of the boys. She said there are plenty of
                            people who would be glad to do it, just for the sake of having such a
                            good home. Ginger said if we could do all that, and keep Jonesy and his
                            brother from growing up to be tramps like the man we bought the bear
                            from, it would be serving our country just as much as if we went to war
                            and fought for it. Ginger is a crank about being a  patriot. You ought to hear her talk about it. And Aunt
                            Allison said that 'an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure,' and
                            that to build such a place as our 'Fairchance' would be a deed worthy of
                            any true knight."
                        "How are you expecting to bring this won, derful thing to pass?" asked
                            his father, as Malcolm stopped to take breath. "Do you expect to wave a
                            wand and see it spring up out of the earth?"
                        "Of course not, papa!" said Malcolm, a little provoked by his father's
                            teasing smile. "We were going to ask you to let us take the money that
                            grandfather left us in his will. We won't need it when we are grown, for
                            we can earn plenty ourselves then, and it seems too bad to have it laid
                            away doing nobody any good, when we need it so much now to right this
                            wrong of Jonesy's."
                        "But it is not laid away," answered Mr. MacIntyre. " It is invested in
                            such a way that it is earning you more money every year; and more than
                            that, it was left in trust for you, so that it cannot be touched until
                            you are twenty. one."
                        "Oh, papa! " cried Malcolm, bitterly disappointed  He had hard work to keep back the tears for a moment; then
                            a happy thought made his face brighten. "You could lend us the money,
                            and we would pay you back when we are of age. You know you promised
                            Keith you would do anything he wanted, and that is what he was trying to
                            ask for?"
                        Mr. MacIntyre put his arm around the earnest little fellow, and drew him
                            to his knee, smiling down into the upturned face that waited eagerly for
                            his answer.
                        "I only asked that to hear what you would say, my son," was the answer.
                            "You need have no worry about the money. I'll keep my promise to Keith,
                            and Jonesy shall have his home. I'm not a knight, but I'm proud to be
                            the father of two such valiant champions. Please God, you'll not be
                            alone in your battles after this, to right the world's wrongs. I'll be
                            your faithful squire, or, as we'd say in these days, a sort of silent
                            partner in the enterprise."
                        Several days after this a deed was recorded in the county court-house,
                            conveying a large piece of property from old Colonel Lloyd to Malcolm
                            and Keith MacIntyre. It was the place adjoining "The Locusts," on which
                            stood  a fine old homestead that had been
                            vacant for several years. The day after its purchase a force of
                            carpenters and painters were set to work, and two coloured men began
                            clearing out the tangle of bushes in the long-neglected garden.
                        Jonesy know nothing of what was going on, and wondered at the long
                            conversations which took place between the old professor and Mr.
                            MacIntyre, always in German. It was the professor who found some one to
                            take care of the home, as Virginia had suggested. He recommended a
                            countryman of his, Carl Sudsberger, who had long been a teacher like
                            himself. He was a gentle old soul who loved children and understood
                            them, and a more motherly creature than his wife could not well be
                            imagined. Everything throve under her thrifty management, and she had no
                            patience with laziness or waste. Any boy in whose bringing up she had a
                            hand would be able to make his way in the world when the time came for
                            it.
                        Mrs. Dudley and Miss Allison helped choose the furnishings, but Virginia
                            felt that the pleasure of it was all hers, for she was taken to the city
                            every time they went, and allowed a voice 
                            in everything. Several trips were necessary before the house was
                            complete, but by the last week in May it was ready from attic to cellar.
                            It was the "Fairchance" that the boys had planned so long, with its
                            rose-bordered paths, the orchard and garden and outlying fields. Nothing
                            had been forgotten, from the big New. foundland dog on the doorstep, to
                            the ducks on the pond, and the little speckled pigs in the pen. The day
                            that Keith was able to walk downstairs for the first time, Mr. MacIntyre
                            went to Chicago, taking Jonesy with him, to find Barney and bring him
                            back. He was gone several days, and when he returned there were three
                            boys with him instead of two: Jonesy, Barney, and a little fellow about
                            five years old, still in dresses.
                        Malcolm met them at the train, and eyed the small newcomer with
                            curiosity. "It is a little chap that Barney had taken under his wing,"
                            explained Mr. Maclntyre. "Its mother was dead, and I found it was
                            entirely dependent on Barney for support. They slept together in the
                            same cellar, and "shared whatever he happened to earn, just as Jonesy
                            did. I hadn't the heart to leave him behind, although I didn't  relish the idea of travelling with such a
                            kinder. garten. Would you believe it, Dodds (that's the little fellow's
                            name) never saw a tree in his
                            
                            life until yesterday? He had never been out of the
                            slums where he was born, not even to the avenues of the city where he
                            could have seen them. It was too far for him to walk alone, and
                            street-cars were out of the question for him,--as  much out of reach of his empty pockets as the moon."
                        "Never saw a tree!" echoed Malcolm, with a thrill of horror in his voice
                            that a life could be so bare in its knowledge of beauty. "Oh, papa, how
                            much 'Fairchance' will mean to him, then! Oh, I'm so glad, and
                            Keith--why, Keith will want to stand on his head!"
                        They drove directly to the new place. It was late in the afternoon, and
                            the sunshine threw long, waving shadows across the yard. Mrs. Sudsberger
                            sat on the front porch knitting. A warm breeze blowing in from the
                            garden stirred the white window curtains behind her with soft
                            flutterings. The coloured woman in the kitchen was singing as she moved
                            around preparing supper, and her voice floated cheerily around the
                            corner of the house:
                        
                            "Swing low, sweet chariot, comin' fer to carry me home,
                            Swing low, sweet char-i-ot, comin' fer to carry me home!"
                        
                        A Jersey cow lowed at the pasture bars, and from away over in the
                            woodland came the  cooing of a dove. Three
                            little waifs had found a home.
                        Mr. MacIntyre looked from the commonplace countenances of the boys
                            climbing out of the carriage to Malcolm's noble face. "It is a doubtful
                            experiment," he said to himself. " They may never amount to anything,
                            but at least they shall have a chance to see what clean, honest, country
                            living can do for them." And then there swept across his heart, with a
                            warm, generous rush, the impulse to do as much for every other
                            unfortunate child he could reach, whose only heritage is the poverty and
                            crime of city slums. He had seen so much in that one short visit. The
                            misery of it haunted him, and it was with a happiness as boyish and keen
                            as Malcolm's that he led these children he had rescued into the home
                            that was to be theirs henceforth.
                        Keith did not see " Fairchance" until Memorial Day. Then they took him
                            over in the carriage in the afternoon, and showed him every nook and
                            corner of the place. There were six boys there now, for room had been
                            made for two little fellows from Louisville, whom Mr. MacIntyre had
                            found at the Newsboys' Home. " I've  no
                            doubt but that there'll always be more coming," he said to Mr.
                            Sudsberger, with a smile, as he led them in. "When you once let a little
                            water trickle through the dyke, the whole sea is apt to come pouring
                            in."
                        "Happy the heart that is swept with such high tides," answered the old
                            German. " It is left the richer by such floods."
                        Several families in the Valley were invited to come late in the afternoon
                            to a flag-raising. The great silk flag was Virginia's gift, and Captain
                            Dudley made the presentation speech. He wore his uniform in honour of
                            the occasion. This was a part of what he said:
                        "This Memorial Day, throughout this wide, spread land of ours, over every
                            mound that marks a soldier's dust, some hand is stretched to drop a
                            flower in tender tribute. Over her heroic dead a grateful country
                            wreathes the red of her roses, the white of her lilies, and the blue of
                            her forget-me-nots, repeating even in the sweet syllables of the flowers
                            the symbol of her patriotism,--the red, white, and blue of her
                            war-stained banner.
                        "My friends, I have followed the old flag into more than one battle. I
                            have seen men charge  after it through
                            blinding smoke and hall of bullets, and I have seen them die for it. No
                            one feels more deeply than I what a glorious thing it is to die for
                            one's country, but I want to say to these little lads looking up at this
                            great flag fluttering over us, that it is not half so noble, half so
                            brave, as to live for it, to give yourselves in untiring, every-day
                            living to your country's good. To 'let all the ends
                            thou aim'st at be thy country's, thy God's, and truth's.' I would rather
                            have that said of me, that I did that, than to be the greatest general
                            of my day. I would rather be the founder of homes like this one than to
                            manceuvre successfully the greatest battles.
                        "May the 'Two Little Knights of Kentucky' go on, out through the land,
                            carrying their motto with them, until the last wrong is righted, and
                            wherever the old flag floats a 'fair chance' may be found for every one
                            that lives beneath it. And may these Stars and Stripes, as they rise and
                            fall on the winds of this peaceful valley, whisper continuously that
                            same motto, until its lessons of truth and purity and unselfish service
                            have been blazoned on the hearts of every boy who calls this home. May
                            it help  to make him a true knight in his
                            country's cause."
                        There was music after that, and then old Colonel Lloyd made a speech, and
                            Virginia and the Little Colonel gathered roses out of the old garden, so
                            that every one could wear a bunch. A little later they had supper on the
                            lawn, picnic fashion, and then drove home in the cool of the evening,
                            when all the meadows were full of soft flashings from the fairy torches
                            of a million fireflies.
                        With Keith safely covered up in a hammock, they lingered on the porch
                            long after the stars came out, and the dew lay heavy on the roses. They
                            were building other air-castles now, to be rebuilt some day, as Jonesy's
                            home had been; only these were still larger and better. The older people
                            were planning, too, and all the good that grew out of that quiet evening
                            talk can never be known until that day comes when the King shall read
                            all the names in his Hall of the Shields.
                        "It has been such a beautiful day," said Virginia, leaning her head
                            happily against her mother's shoulder. Then she started up, suddenly
                            remembering something. " Oh, papa!"  she
                            cried, " let's end it as they do at the fort, with the bugle-call. I'll
                            run and get my old bugle, and you play 'taps.'"
                        A few minutes later the silvery notes went floating out on the warm night
                            air, through all the peaceful valley; over the mounds in the little
                            churchyard, wreathed now with their fresh memorial roses; past "The
                            Locusts" where the Little Colonel lay a-dreaming. Over the woods and,
                            fields they floated, until they reached the flag that kept its
                            fluttering vigil over "Fairchance."
                        Jonesy sat up in bed to listen. Many a reveille would sound before his
                            full awakening to all that the two little knights had made possible for
                            him, but the sweet, dim dream of the future that stole into his grateful
                            little heart was an earnest of what was in store for him. Then the
                            bugle-call, falling through the starlight like a benediction, closed the
                            happy day with its peaceful "Good night."
                    
                    
                        THE END.
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
            	ADVERTISEMENT
                
                    Selections fromThe Page Company'sBooks for Young
                        People
                
                
                    
                        THE BLUE BONNET SERIES
                        Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per volume
                        $1.50
                    
                    
                        A TEXAS BLUE BONNET
                        
                            By CAROLINE E. JACOBS.
                            "The book's heroine, Blue Bonnet, has the very finest kind of
                                wholesome, honest, lively girlishness."-Chicago
                                    Inter-Ocean.
                        
                    
                    
                        BLUE BONNET'S RANCH PARTY
                        
                        
                            By CAROLINE E. JACOBS AND
                                    EDYTH ELLERBECK
                            READ. "A healthy, natural atmosphere
                                breathes from every chapter."-Boston
                                Transcript.
                        
                    
                    BLUE BONNET IN BOSTON; OR, Boarding-SCHOOL DAYS
                            AT MISS NORTH'S. 
                            By CAROLINE E. JACOBS AND LELA HORN RICHARDS.
                            "It is bound to become popular because of its wholesomeness and
                                its many human touches."-Boston Globe.
                        
                    BLUE BONNET KEEPS HOUSE; OR, THE NEW HOME IN THE EAST. 
                            By CAROLINE E. JACOBS AND
                                    LELA HORN RICHARDS.
                            "It cannot fail to prove fascinating to girls in their teens."-New York Sun.
                        
                    
                        BLUE BONNET-DBUTANTE
                        
                            By LELA HORN RICHARDS.
                            An interesting picture of the unfolding of life for Blue
                                Bonnet.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        THE YOUNG PIONEER SERIES By HARRISON ADAMS
                        
                         Each 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per volume 
                        $1.25
                    
                    THE PIONEER BOYS OF THE OHIO; OR,
                            CLEARING THE WILDERNESS.
                            "Such books as this are an admirable means of stimulating among
                                the young Americans of to-day interest in the story of their pioneer
                                ancestors and the early days of the Republic."--Boston
                                    Globe.
                        
                    THE PIONEER BOYS ON THE GREAT LAKES; OR, ON THE TRAIL OF THE IROQUOIS.
                            "The recital of the daring deeds of the frontier is not only
                                interesting but instructive as well and shows the sterling type of
                                character which these days of self-reliance and trial
                                    produced."--American Tourist, Chicago.
                        
                    THE PIONEER BOYS OF THE MISSISSIPPI; OR, THE HOMESTEAD IN THE WILDERNESS.
                        
                            "The story is told with spirit, and is full of adventure."--New York Sun.
                        
                    THE PIONEER BOYS OF THE MISSOURI; OR,
                            IN THE COUNTRY OF THE SIOUX. 
                            "Vivid in style, vigorous in movement, full of dramatic
                                situations, true to historic perspective, this story is a capital
                                one for boys."--Watchman Examiner, New York
                                City.
                        
                    THE PIONEER BOYS OF THE YELLOWSTONE; OR, LOST IN THE LAND OF WONDERS. 
                            "There is plenty of lively adventure and action and the story is
                                well told."--Duluth Herald, Duluth, Minn.
                        
                    THE PIONEER BOYS OF THE COLUMBIA; OR,
                            IN THE WILDERNESS OF THE GREAT NORTHWEST. 
                            "The story is full of spirited action and contains much valuable
                                historical information."--Boston herald.
                        
                
                
                
                    
                        THE HADLEY HALL SERIES By LOUISE M. BREITENBACH
                        
                        Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per volume
                        $1.50
                    
                    
                        ALMA AT HADLEY HALL
                        
                            "The author is to be congratulated on having written such an
                                appealing book for girls."--Detroit Free
                                Press.
                        
                    
                    
                        ALMA'S SOPHOMORE YEAR
                        
                            "It cannot fail to appeal to the lovers of good things in girls'
                                    books."--Boston Herald.
                        
                    
                    
                        ALMA'S JUNIOR YEAR
                        
                            "The diverse characters in the boarding-school are strongly drawn,
                                the incidents are well developed and the action is never dull."--The Boston Herald.
                        
                    
                    
                        ALMA'S SENIOR YEAR
                        
                            "Incident abounds in all of Miss Breitenbach's stories and a
                                healthy, natural atmosphere breathes from every chapter."--Boston Transcript.
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        THE GIRLS OF FRIENDLY TERRACE
                            SERIES By HARRIET LUMMIS
                                SMITH
                        Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per volume
                        $1.50
                    
                    
                        THE GIRLS OF FRIENDLY TERRACE
                        
                            "A book sure to please girl readers, for the author seems to
                                understand perfectly the girl character."--Boston
                                    Globe.
                        
                    
                    
                        PEGGY RAYMOND'S VACATION
                        
                            "It is a wholesome, hearty story."--Utica
                                    Observer.
                        
                    
                    
                        PEGGY RAYMOND'S SCHOOL DAYS
                        
                            The book is delightfully written, and contains lots of exciting
                                incidents.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        FAMOUS LEADERS SERIES By CHARLES H. L. JOHNSTON
                        
                        Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per volume
                        $1.50
                    
                    
                        FAMOUS CAVALRY LEADERS
                        
                            "More of such books should be written, books that acquaint young
                                readers with historical personages in a pleasant, informal
                                    way."--New York Sun.
                            "It is a book that will stir the heart of every boy and will prove
                                interesting as well to the adults."--Lawrence Daily
                                    World.
                        
                    
                    
                        FAMOUS INDIAN CHIEFS
                        
                            "Mr. Johnston has done faithful work in this volume, and his
                                relation of battles, sieges and struggles of these famous Indians
                                with the whites for the possession of America is a worthy addition
                                to United States History."--New York Marine
                                    Journal.
                        
                    
                    FAMOUS SCOUTS "
                            It is the kind of a book that will have a great fascination for
                                boys and young men, and while it entertains them it will also
                                present valuable information in regard to those who have left their
                                impress upon the history of the country."--The New
                                    London Day.
                        
                    
                        FAMOUS PRIVATEERSMEN AND ADVENTURERS OF THE SEA
                        
                             "The tales are more than merely interesting; they are entrancing,
                                stirring the blood with thrilling force and bringing new zest to the
                                never-ending interest in the dramas of the sea."--The
                                    Pittsburgh Post.
                        
                    
                    
                        FAMOUS FRONTIERSMEN AND HEROES OF THE BORDER
                        
                            "The accounts are not only authentic, but distinctly readable,
                                making a book of wide appeal to all who love the history of actual
                                    adventure."--Cleveland Leader.
                        
                    
                    
                        FAMOUS DISCOVERERS AND EXPLORERS OF AMERICA
                        
                            "The book is an epitome of some of the wildest and bravest
                                adventures of which the world has known and of discoveries which
                                have changed the face of the old world as well as of the new."--Brooklyn Daily Eagle.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    HILDEGARDE-MARGARET SERIES By
                                LAURAE. RICHARDS Eleven
                            Volumes The Hildegarde-Margaret Series, beginning with "Queen
                        Hildegarde" and ending with "The Merry-weathers," make one of the best and
                        most popular series of books for girls ever written.
                        
                            Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per
                                volume
                            $1.35
                            
                            The eleven volumes boxed as a set
                            $14.85
                        
                        LIST OF TITLES
                    QUEEN HILDEGARDE
                    
                        HILDEGARDE'S HOLIDAY
                    
                    
                        HILDEGARDE'S HOME
                    
                    
                        HILDEGARDE'S NEIGHBORS
                    
                    
                        HILDEGARDE'S HARVEST
                    
                    
                        THREE MARGARETS
                    
                    
                        MARGARET MONTFORT
                    
                    
                        PEGGY
                    
                    
                        RITA
                    
                    
                        FERNLEY HOUSE
                    
                    
                        THE MERRYWEATHERS
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        THE CAPTAIN JANUARY SERIES By LAURA E. RICHARDS
                        
                            Each one volume, 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated,
                                per volume
                        
                        60 cents
                    
                    
                        CAPTAIN JANUARY
                        
                            A charming idyl of New England coast life, whose success has been
                                very remarkable. 
                            SAME. Illustrated Holiday Edition$1.35
                        
                    
                    MELODY: THE STORY OF
                            A CHILD.
                    MARIE A companion to "Melody" and "Captain
                        January."
                    ROSIN THE BEAU A sequel to "Melody" and "Marie."
                    SNOW-WHITE; OR, THE HOUSE IN THE WOOD.
                    JIM OF HELLAS; OR, IN DURANCE VILE, and a
                        companion story, BETHESDA POOL.
                    
                        NARCISSA
                        
                            And a companion story, IN VERONA, being two delightful short stories of New England
                                life.
                        
                    
                    
                        "SOME SAY"
                        
                            And a companion story, NEIGHBORS IN CYRUS.
                        
                    
                    
                        NAUTILUS
                        
                            "'Nautilus' is by far the best product of the author's powers, and
                                is certain to achieve the wide success it so richly merits."
                        
                    
                    
                        ISLA HERON
                        
                            This interesting story is written in the author's usual charming
                                manner.
                        
                    
                    
                        THE LITTLE MASTER
                        
                            "A well told, interesting tale of a high character."--California Gateway Gazette.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    DELIGHTFUL BOOKS FOR LITTLE FOLKS By LAURA E. RICHARDS
                    
                        THREE MINUTE STORIES
                        
                            Cloth decorative, 12mo, with eight plates in full color and many
                                text illustrations$1.35
                            "Little ones will understand and delight in the stories and
                                    poems."--Indianapolis News.
                        
                    
                    
                        FIVE MINUTE STORIES
                        
                            Cloth decorative, square 12mo, illustrated$1.35
                            A charming collection of short stories and clever poems for
                                children.
                        
                    
                    
                        MORE FIVE MINUTE STORIES
                        
                            Cloth decorative, square 12mo, illustrated$1.35
                            A noteworthy collection of short stories and poems for children,
                                which will prove as popular with mothers as with boys and
                                girls.
                        
                    
                    
                        FIVE MICE IN A MOUSE TRAP
                        
                            Cloth decorative, square 12mo, illustrated$1.35
                            The story of their lives and other wonderful things related by the
                                Man in the Moon, done in the vernacular from the lunacular form by
                                Laura E. Richards.
                        
                    
                
                
                    POLLYANNA ANNUAL NO. I
                    Trade Mark
                    The Yearly GLAD Book.
                    Trade----Mark
                    Edited by FLORENCE ORVILLE.
                    Large octavo, with nearly 200 illustrations, 12 in full
                        color, bound with an all-over pictorial cover design in colors, with fancy
                        printed end papers. $1.50
                    "The contents of this splendid volume are evidently intended to
                        demonstrate the fact that work is as good a glad game as play if gone about
                        the right way. There are clever little drawings any one could imitate, and
                        in imitating learn something. There are adventurous tales, fairy tales,
                        scientific tales, comic stories and serious stories in verse and
                            prose."--Montreal Herald and Star.
                
                
                
                    
                        THE BOYS' STORY OF THE RAILROAD SERIES
                            By BURTON E. STEVENSON
                        Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per
                            volume
                        $1.50
                    
                    THE YOUNG SECTION-HAND;OR, THE ADVENTURES OF ALLAN
                            WEST. 
                            "The whole range of section railroading is covered in the
                                    story."--Chicago Post.
                        
                    
                        THE YOUNG TRAIN DISPATCHER
                        
                            "A vivacious account of the varied and often hazardous nature of
                                railroad life."--Congregationalist.
                        
                    
                    
                        THE YOUNG TRAIN MASTER
                        
                            "It is a book that can be unreservedly commended to anyone who
                                loves a good, wholesome, thrilling, informing yarn."--Passaic News.
                        
                    
                    THE YOUNG APPRENTICE; OR, ALLAN WEST'S CHUM. 
                            "The story is intensely interesting."--Baltimore
                                    Sun.
                        
                
                
                    
                        
                            STORIES BY BREWER CORCORAN
                        
                         Each, one volume, 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per
                            volume 
                        $1.50
                    
                    
                        THE BOY SCOUTS OF KENDALLVILLE
                        
                            
                                Published with the approval of "The Boy Scouts of
                                    America."
                            
                            The story of a bright young factory worker who cannot enlist
                                because he has three dependents, but his knowledge of woodcraft and
                                wig-wagging gained through Scout practice enables him to foil a
                                German plot to blow up the munitions factory.
                        
                    
                    THE BARBARIAN; OR, WILL BRADFORD'S SCHOOL DAYS AT ST. JO'S. 
                            "This is a splendid story of friendship, study and sport, winding
                                up with a perfectly corking double play."--Springfield
                                    Union.
                        
                
                
                
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL BOOKS (Trade
                            Mark) By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON Each large 18mo, cloth,
                        illustrated, per volume$1.50
                    
                        THE LITTLE COLONEL STORIES
                        
                            (Trade Mark)
                            Being three "Little Colonel" stories in the Cosy Corner Series,
                                "The Little Colonel," "Two Little Knights of Kentucky," and "The
                                Giant Scissors," in a single volume.
                        
                    
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL'S HOUSE PARTY (Trade
                        Mark)
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL'S HOLIDAYS (Trade Mark)
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL'S HERO (Trade Mark)
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL AT BOARDING-SCHOOL (Trade
                        Mark)
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL IN ARIZONA (Trade Mark)
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL'S CHRISTMAS (Trade Mark)
                    VACATION THE LITTLE COLONEL, MAID OF HONOR (Trade
                        Mark)
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL'S KNIGHT COMES (Trade
                        Mark)
                    RIDING THE LITTLE COLONEL'S CHUM, MARY WARE(Trade
                        Mark)
                    
                        MARY WARE IN TEXAS
                    
                    MARY WARE'S PROMISED LAND
                        These twelve volumes, boxed as a set, $18.00. 
                
                
                
                    SPECIAL HOLIDAY EDITIONS
                        Each small quarto, cloth decorative, per volume$1.35 New plates, handsomely illustrated with eight
                        full-page drawings in color, and many marginal sketches.
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL (Trade Mark)
                    
                        TWO LITTLE KNIGHTS OF KENTUCKY
                    
                    
                        THE GIANT SCISSORS
                    
                    
                        BIG BROTHER
                    
                
                
                    
                        THE JOHNSTON JEWEL SERIES
                        Each small 16mo, cloth decorative, with frontispiece and
                            decorative text borders, per volume
                        $0.60
                    
                    IN THE DESERT OF WAITING: THE LEGEND OF CAMELBACK MOUNTAIN.
                    THE THREE WEAVERS: A FAIRY TALE FOR FATHERS AND MOTHERS AS WELL AS FOR THEIR
                            DAUGHTERS.
                    KEEPING TRYST: A TALE OF KING ARTHUR'S TIME.
                    
                        THE LEGEND OF THE BLEEDING HEART
                    
                    THE RESCUE OF PRINCESS WINSOME: A FAIRY PLAY FOR OLD
                        AND YOUNG.
                    
                        THE JESTER'S SWORD
                    
                
                
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL'S GOOD TIMES BOOK
                    Uniform in size with the Little Colonel Series $1.50
                    Bound in white kid (morocco) and gold 3.00
                    Cover design and decorations by Peter Verberg.
                    "A mighty attractive volume in which the owner may record the good times
                        she has on decorated pages, and under the directions as it were of Annie
                        Fellows Johnston."--Buffalo Express.
                
                
                
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL DOLL BOOK--
                     First Series
                     Quarto, boards, printed in colors$1.50
                    A series of "Little Colonel" dolls. Each has several changes of costume,
                        so they can be appropriately clad for the rehearsal of any scene or incident
                        in the series.
                
                
                    THE LITTLE COLONEL DOLL BOOK--
                    Second Series
                    Quarto, boards, printed in colors$1.50
                    An artistic series of paper dolls, including not only lovable Mary Ware,
                        the Little Colonel's chum, but many another of the much loved characters
                        which appear in the last three volumes of the famous "Little Colonel
                        Series."
                
                
                    ASA HOLMES
                    By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON.
                    With a frontispiece by Ernest Fosbery.
                    16mo, cloth decorative, gilt top$1.00
                    "'Asa Holmes' is the most delightful, most sympathetic and wholesome book
                        that has been published in a long while."--Boston
                        Times.
                
                
                    TRAVELERS FIVE: ALONG LIFE'S HIGH-WAY
                    By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON.
                    With an introduction by Bliss Carman, and a frontispiece by E. H.
                        Garrett.
                    12mo, cloth decorative$1.25
                    "Mrs. Johnston broadens her reputation with this book so rich in the
                        significance of common things."--Boston Advertiser.
                
                
                    JOEL: A BOY OF GALILEE
                    By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON.
                    12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated$1.50
                    "The book is a very clever handling of the greatest event in the history
                        of the world."--Rochester, N. Y., Herald.
                
                
                
                    THE BOYS' STORY OF THE ARMY SERIES By FLORENCE KIMBALL RUSSEL
                    
                        
                            BORN TO THE BLUE
                            12mo, cloth decorative, illustratedhi rend="right">$1.50
                            "The story deserves warm commendation and genuine
                                    popularity."--Army and Navy Register.
                        
                    
                    
                            IN WEST POINT GRAY
                            12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated$1.50
                            "One of the best books that deals with West Point."--New York Sun
                        .
                    
                        
                            FROM CHEVRONS TO SHOULDER-STRAPS
                            12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated$1.50
                            "The life of a cadet at West Point is portrayed very
                                    realistically."--The Hartford Post, Hartford,
                                    Conn.
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        DOCTOR'S LITTLE GIRL SERIES By MARION AMES TAGGART
                        Each large 12mo, cloth, illustrated, per volume,
                        $1.50
                    
                    
                        
                            THE DOCTOR'S LITTLE GIRL
                            "A charming story of the ups and downs of the life of a dear
                                little maid."--The Churchman.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            SWEET NANCY: THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF THE DOCTOR'S LITTLE GIRL.
                            "Just the sort of book to amuse, while its influence cannot but be
                                    elevating."--New York Sun.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            NANCY, THE DOCTOR'S LITTLE PARTNER
                            "The story is sweet and fascinating, such as many girls of
                                wholesome tastes will enjoy."--Springfield
                                Union.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            NANCY PORTER'S OPPORTUNITY
                            "Nancy shows throughout that she is a splendid young woman, with
                                plenty of pluck."--Boston Globe.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            NANCY AND THE COGGS TWINS
                            "The story is refreshing."--New York Sun.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        WORKS OF EVALEEN STEIN
                    
                    
                        
                            THE CHRISTMAS PORRINGER
                            12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated by Adelaide Everhart$1.25
                            This story happened many hundreds of years ago in the quaint
                                Flemish city of Bruges and concerns a little girl named Karen, who
                                worked at lace-making with her aged grandmother.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            GABRIEL AND THE HOUR BOOK
                            Small quarto, cloth decorative, illustrated and decorated in
                                colors by Adelaide Everhart$1.25
                            "No works in juvenile fiction contain so many of the elements that
                                stir the hearts of children and grown-ups as well as do the stories
                                so admirably told by this author."--Louisville Daily
                                    Courier.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            A LITTLE SHEPHERD OF PROVENCE
                            12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated by Diantha H. Marlowe$1.25
                            "The story should be one of the influences in the life of every
                                child to whom good stories can be made to appeal."--Public Ledger.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            THE LITTLE COUNT OF NORMANDY
                            12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated by John Goss$1.25 "This touching and pleasing story is told with a
                                wealth of interest coupled with enlivening descriptions of the
                                country where its scenes are laid and of the people thereof."--Wilmington Every Evening.
                        
                    
                
                
                    THE HOUSE ON THE HILL
                    By MARGARET R. PIPER, author of
                        "Sylvia Arden," "Sylvia of the Hill Top," " Sylvia Arden Decides,"
                        etc.
                    12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated$1.50
                    "It is a bright, entertaining story, with happy young folks, good times,
                        natural development, and a gentle earnestness of general tone."--The Christian Register, Boston.
                
                
                
                    
                        HISTORICAL BOOKS
                    
                    
                        
                            THE BOYS OF '61: ORFOUR YEARS OF FIGHTING
                            By CHARLES CARLETON COFFIN
                            Extra Illustrated Edition. An entirely new edition, cloth
                                decorative, 8vo, with nearly two hungred illustrations$2.00
                            Regular Edition. Cloth decorative, 12 mo, with eight
                                    illustrations$1.35
                            A record of personal observation with the Army and Navy, from the
                                Battle of Bull Run to the fall of Richmond.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            THE BOYS OF 1812;AND OTHER NAVAL HEROES
                            By JAMES RUSSELL SOLEY.
                            Cloth, 8vo, illustrated
                            "The book is full of stirring incidents and adventures."--Boston Herald.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                THE SAILOR BOYS OF '61
                            
                            By JAMES RUSSELL SOLEY.
                            Cloth, 8vo, illustrated$2.00
                            "It is written with an enthusiasm that never allows the interest
                                to slacken."--The Call, Newark, N.J.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                BOYS OF FORT SCHUYLER
                            
                            By JAMES OTIS.
                            Cloth decorative, square 12mo, illustrated$1.25
                            "It is unquestionably one of the best historical Indian stories
                                ever written."--Boston Herald
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        FAMOUS WAR STORIESBy CHARLES CARLETON Coffin>
                            Each cloth decorative, 12mo, illustrated, per vol.,
                            $1.25
                    
                    
                        
                            WINNING HIS WAY
                            A story of a young soldier in the Civil War.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            MY DAYS AND NIGHTS ON THE BATTLEFIELD
                            A story of the Battle of Bull Run and other battles in Kentucky,
                                Tennessee, and on the Mississippi.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            FOLLOWING THE FLAG
                            A story of the Army of the Potomac in the Civil War.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        
                            THE SANDMAN SERIES
                        
                        Each large 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, per volume
                        $1.50
                        By WILLIAM J. HOPKINS
                    
                    
                        
                            THE SANDMAN: HIS FARM STORIES.
                            "Mothers and fathers and kind elder sisters who take the little
                                ones to bed and rack their brains for stories will find this book a
                                    treasure."--Cleveland Leader.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            THE SANDMAN: MORE FARM STORIES.
                             "Children will call for these stories over and over again."--Chicago Evening Post.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            THE SANDMAN: HIS SHIP STORIES.
                            "Little ones will understand and delight in the stories and their
                                parents will read between the lines and recognize the poetic and
                                artistic work of the author."--Indianapolis
                                News.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            THE SANDMAN: HIS SEA STORIES.
                            "Once upon a time there was a man who knew little children and the
                                kind of stories they liked, so he wrote four books of Sandman's
                                stories, all about the farm or the sea, and the brig Industry, and
                                this book is one of them."--Canadian
                                    Congregationalist.
                        
                    
                
                
                    By JENNY WALLIS
                    THE SANDMAN: HIS SONGS
                            AND RHYMES.
                             "Here is a fine collection of poems for mothers and friends to
                                use at the twilight hour. They are not of the soporific kind
                                especially. They are wholesome reading when most wide-awake and of
                                such a soothing and delicious flavor that they are welcome when the
                                lights are low."--Christian Intelligence.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE SANDMAN SERIES (CONTINUED) By HARRY W. FREES
                    
                        
                            THE SANDMAN: HIS ANIMAL STORIES.
                            "They are written in a style that will appeal most strongly to
                                children, and the promise of a Sandman story before retiring will be
                                found an adequate relief to many a tired mother. The simplicity of
                                the stories and the fascinating manner in which they are written
                                make them an excellent night cap for the youngster who is easily
                                excited into wakefulness.'--Pittsburgh
                                Leader.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            THE SANDMAN: HIS KITTYCAT STORIES.
                            "The Sandman is a wonderful fellow. First he told farm stories,
                                then ship stories, then sea stories. And now he tells stories about
                                the kittens and the fun they had in Kittycat Town. A strange thing
                                about these kittens is the ability to talk, work and play like boys
                                and girls, and that is why all of the little tots will like the
                                Sandman's book, which has thirty-two illustrations reproduced from
                                photographs taken by the author."--Pittsburgh Chronicle
                                    Telegraph.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            THE SANDMAN: HIS BUNNY STORIES.
                            "The whole book is filled with one tale after another and is
                                narrated in such a pleasing manner as to reach the heart of every
                                    child."--Common Sense, Chicago.
                        
                    
                
                
                    By W. S. PHILLIPS (EL
                            COMANCHO)
                    THE SANDMAN: HIS INDIAN STORIES.
                    No Sandman is properly equipped without a fund of Indian tales, for the
                        lure of the feathered head-dress, the tomahawk and the wampum belt is
                        irresistible to the small boy. The Indian tales for this Celebrated Series
                        of Children's Bedtime Stories have been written by a man who has Indian
                        blood, who spent years of his life among the Redmen in one of the tribes of
                        which he is an honored member and who is an expert interpreter of the Indian
                        viewpoint and a practised authority on all Indiana as well as a master
                        teller of tales.
                
                
                
                    THE LITTLE COUSIN SERIES (TRADE MARK) Each volume illustrated with six or more
                        full page plates in tint. Cloth, 12mo, with decorative cover, per volume, 60
                        cents LIST OF TITLES BY COL.
                        F. A. POSTNIKOV, ISAAC TAYLOR HEADLAND, LL. D., EDWARD C. BUTLER, ETC.
                    Our Little African Cousin
                    Our Little Alaskan Cousin
                    Our Little Arabian Cousin
                    Our Little Argentine Cousin
                    Our Little Armenian Cousin
                    Our Little Australian Cousin
                    Our Little Austrian Cousin
                    Our Little Belgian Cousin
                    Our Little Bohemian Cousin
                    Our Little Boer Cousin
                    Our Little Brazilian Cousin
                    Our Little Bulgarian Cousin
                    Our Little Canadian Cousin of the Maritime Provinces
                    Our Little Chinese Cousin
                    Our Little Cossack Cousin
                    Our Little Cuban Cousin
                    Our Little Danish Cousin
                    Our Little Dutch Cousin
                    Our Little Egyptian Cousin
                    Our Little English Cousin
                    Our Little Eskimo Cousin
                    Our Little Finnish Cousin
                    Our Little French Cousin
                    Our Little German Cousin
                    Our Little Grecian Cousin
                    Our Little Hawaiian Cousin
                    Our Little Hindu Cousin
                    Our Little Hungarian Cousin
                    Our Little Indian Cousin
                    Our Little Irish Cousin
                    Our Little Italian Cousin
                    Our Little Japanese Cousin
                    Our Little Jewish Cousin
                    Our Little Korean Cousin
                    Our Little Malayan (Brown) Cousin
                    Our Little Mexican Cousin
                    Our Little Norwegian Cousin
                    Our Little Panama Cousin
                    Our Little Persian Cousin
                    Our Little Philippine Cousin
                    Our Little Polish Cousin
                    Our Little Porto Rican Cousin
                    Our Little Portuguese Cousin
                    Our Little Roumanian Cousin
                    Our Little Russian Cousin
                    Our Little Scotch Cousin
                    Our Little Servian Cousin
                    Our Little Siamese Cousin
                    Our Little Spanish Cousin
                    Our Little Swedish Cousin
                    Our Little Swiss Cousin
                    Our Little Turkish Cousin
                
                
                
                    
                            THE LITTLE COUSINS OF LONG AGO SERIES
                         The volumes in this series describe the boys and girls of ancient
                        times. Each small 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated
                        60c.
                    OUR LITTLE ATHENIAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO By JULIA DARROW COWLES.
                    OUR LITTLE CARTHAGINIAN COUSIN OF LONG AGOBy CLARA V. WINLOW.
                    OUR LITTLE FRANKISH COUSIN OF LONG AGO By EVALEEN STEIN.
                    OUR LITTLE MACEDONIAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO By JULIA DARROW COWLES.
                    OUR LITTLE NORMAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO By EVALEEN STEIN.
                    OUR LITTLE ROMAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO By JULIA DARROW COWLES.
                    OUR LITTLE SAXON COUSIN OF LONG AGO By JULIA DARROW COWLES.
                    OUR LITTLE SPARTAN COUSIN OF LONG AGO By JULIA DARROW COWLES.
                    OUR LITTLE VIKING COUSIN OF LONG AGO  By CHARLES H. L. JOHNSTON.
                    
                        
                            IN PREPARATION
                        
                        OUR LITTLE CELTIC COUSIN OF LONG AGO
                    
                
            
        
    
