
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Ritter, Eli F. (Eli Foster), 1838-1913. Is license constitutional?. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1859
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		


			

			

				
					
						IS LICENSE ....
						
						CONSTITUTIONAL?
					
					A SECOND BRIEF
				

				

				By Eli F. Ritter

				

				
					BEFORE THE SUPREME COURT of INDIANA
				

				
					FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY
					LONDON
					NEW YORK
					TORONTO
				
			


			
		

		

			

			
				Is license constitutional?



				
					
						MARY E. HAGGART and SARAH C. RATHWELL vs. JOHN
							H. STEHLIN and GEORGE HEIDT.
						No. 16,142.
							Supreme Court of  Indiana
						
					
				




				BRIEF ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.

				THE appellants in support of the petition for rehearing in the above
					entitled cause submit the following brief.

				
					DECIDES WHAT IS NOT AT ISSUE.

					The following language was used in appellants' original brief in this cause in the very
						outset of the argument, as appears on page 12: "If the Act of the Legislature contained
						no other provisions than such as assume control, regulation, and restriction upon the
						sale of intoxicating liquors, I should readily concede its validity. It is, not the
						control over this subject and business to which I offer objections. My objections are
						made to the license, the authority, and the sanction given by the Act to the person, the
						place, and the conduct of the saloon business." I quote  to
						also from the brief on page 33. "I will go no further in the effort to establish the
						dangerous and disastrous character of the saloon business. Let it be borne in mind that
						I am now only discussing the saloon business. I am not lecturing on temperance, total
						abstinence, the moderate use of intoxicating liquors, nor the manufacture of the same as
						an industry. I am talking about the saloon business solely; the place where intoxicating
						liquors are sold and drunk, where persons are invited to meet and drink, the place and
						business authorized and sanctioned by law. The right of the Legislature to regulate and
						controf and to license the sale of intoxicating liquors was specially and distinctly
						conceded in my original brief in this case and in my oral argument before the Court.
						That question was in no way put at issue in this case, yet, with all due respect for the
						opinion of this Court as rendered in this case, I urge that the Court has decided very
						clearly and very conclusively and very satisfactory that particular question. The
						citations in the opinion of the Court in its support apply and support the opinion on
						the question decided, and the Court is correct when it says upon that question that,
						"There is absolutely no diversity of opinion. There is, therefore, no room for doubt. No
						question as to our duty, for we are bound by the law as it exists." All of this I now
						concede fully  and freely, as was conceded at all times in
						the argument of this cause. As I stated in the oral argument, every State in the Union
						where there exists a prohibitory Statute has, nevertheless, some provision by Statute
						for the sale, with regulations and restrictions, of intoxicating liquors. The opinion of
						the Court is solely upon that question, but that question was not at issue. I submit in
						all candor to the intelligence of this Court upon a careful re-examination of my
						original brief and argument and the record, whether I am not right in this presentation.
						I should not seriously object to the decision, correctly made and supported as it has
						been, though upon a question not at issue, if the Court has gone a step further and
						decided the question that was at issue.
				

				

					THE QUESTION AT ISSUE.

					After what I am satisfied the Court will see upon second thought was a careful effort
						on my part in the original brief and former argument to state what was not at issue and
						what I was not intending in any way to put at issue, the Court will find I did proceed
						to state with a fair degree of clearness what was at issue and the ground of
						constitutional objection to the Legislative Act. I am unable to give any better
						expression to this question at issue than is given in my 
						original brief on page 12, as follows: "My objections are made to the license, the
						authority, and the sanction given by the Act, to the person, the place, and the conduct
						of the saloon business." I quote further from page 33 of the same brief: "I am talking
						about the saloon business solely; the place where intoxicating liquors are sold and
						drunk, where persons are invited to meet and drink, the place and the business
						authorized and sanctioned by law." This question that is at issue is not passed on in
						the opinion rendered by the Court. The opinion of this Court lays down the proposition
						involved in the case at the very beginning as follows: "The assault upon the Statute
						comes from a quarter different from that whence all assaults have come in the past; for
						it comes from citizens and property-owners who are not engaged in the traffic, not from
						those whom the law requires to take out a license and against whom penalties are
						denounced for a failure to pay the fee prescribed, and to obtain the license which is
						required of all who engage in the business of dram-selling. The position of the
						appellants is a moral one. There is no instance in the books where such a position has
						been assumed." The opinion says, "The assault upon the Statute comes from a quarter
						different from that whence all assaults have come in the past." I admit that the
						citizens of this State have submitted  hitherto to all the
						devastating and ruinous work of the saloons and saloon system; to all its tyranny and
						heartless oppression; have looked and prayed that the Government and her Legislatures
						and her Courts would some time bring relief. This "assault" is led by two women, by the
						side of whose home a saloon has been established, with its blasting influences over the
						rental and intrinsic value of the home and making the home unbearable. They have
						appealed to the Court, not expecting the Court to assume the attitude of repelling an
						"assault" with drawn sword, but to grant relief and protection to the home and citizens.
						The opinion further says: "The position of the appellants is a moral one. There is no
						instance in the books where such a position has been assumed." There is certainly more
						in the position of appellants than is thus stated in the opinion of the Court. The
						appellants in the institution of this action sought damages for injury to their property
						and the disturbance to their enjoyment of the premises, and sought relief by injunction,
						also, from the further continuance of the same.
					There is no controversy in this case, no denial in the issues, and can be none under
						the issues, as to the actual damage already sustained, and the further damage to be
						sustained, by these appellants on account of the saloon which has been licensed and
						located  beside their home. This feature of the case
						presents a question of actual damage and injury to the property, and is in no sense a
						question of morals. But there is also a question of morals involved, in that the
						institution licensed is licensed immorality. So far as it applies to this case I concur
						in the expression in the opinion that "there is no instance in the books where such a
						position has been assumed." It is true that the position assumed and the issue tendered
						in this case is a new one, and presented to this Court for the first time the question
						has been presented to any Court, but I do not understand the expression of the Court in
						this case when it says, "We are asked to overthrow a principle of law which has
						prevailed not merely for years but for centuries." What principle of law does the Court
						refer to? I insist that the Court is mistaken in the opinion in the principle of law
						involved. The opinion following the foregoing quotation proceeds upon a theory that the
						principle of law involved is: whether the Legislature of a State may license, regulate,
						and restrict the liquor- traffic. That is not the principle nor question involved. The
						question is presented as to what the Legislature may authorize to be licensed. The
						Legislature may provide a system for licensing school-teachers and doctors and the sale
						of liquor. The Legislature might provide for the licensing, regulating,  and restricting other vocations, business, and professions.
						I concede that there is a wide field and great scope which are exclusively the province
						of the Legislature for license systems, with which the Courts can have no power to
						interfere. But the Legislature may not license everything. Its power is limited by the
						Constitution. When it exceeds its power, the Courts can interfere and are bound to when
						a question is presented. The Constitution of Indiana presents the moral question in
						Article 8, Section 1, as it appears in the Revised Statues of 1881, as follows:
						"Knowledge and learning, generally diffused throughout a community, being essential to
						the preservation of a free government, it shall be the duty of the General Assembly to
						encourage by all suitable means, moral, intellectual, scientific, and agricultural
						improvements, and to provide by law for a general and uniform system of common schools,
						wherein tuition shall be without charge and equally open to all."
					If this Section of the Constitution presents any question at all, any subject at all,
						to the Legislative department of the State government; if this Section of the
						Constitution commands or lays any duty at all upon the Legislature, the question, the
						subject, and the duty presented to the Legislature, is public morality.
					This Section of the Constitution makes  this subject
						distinct and specific just as much so as intelligence, science, agriculture, and common
						schools, which are each specific subjects in this Section. This Section of the
						Constitution makes morality a specific subject for legislative action just as much as if
						it were the only subject named.
					If the Legislature were to pass an Act which was against education, or an Act against
						public intelligence, or an Act against the interests of agriculture, such an Act would
						be void, and it would be the duty and province of the Courts to declare it so. If the
						Act in fact worked an injury that was ruinous to the subject contemplated, the Courts
						must pass on the effect and result of the Act, sustain or declare it void in accordance
						with the effect and result it in fact has, however laudable might be the intention of
						the Legislature in the passage of the Act.
					In Mugler vs. Kansas, 123d U. S., 205, the Supreme Court of the
						United States says: "The Courts are not bound by mere forms nor are they to be misled by
						mere pretenses. They are at liberty, indeed, are under a solemn duty, to look at the
						substance of things, whenever they enter upon the inquiry, whether the Legislature has
						transcended the limits of its authority. If, therefore, a Statute purporting to have
						been enacted to protect the public health, the public morals, or the public safety, has
						no real or substantial relation  to these objects, or is a
						palpable invasion of rights secured by the fundamental law, it is the duty of the Courts
						to so adjudge and thereby give effect to the Constitution."
					The Court in the opinion in this case says: "The theory of the Legislature upon this
						subject is, that the business is one which requires restraint because it is harmful to
						society." Then the Statute purports to have been enacted to protect public morals,
						public health, and public safety. "In such case," says the U. S. Supreme Court, "the
						Courts are under a solemn duty to look at the substance of things." This is the plain
						duty of the Court concerning legislation upon the specific subject of morality as
						presented in this Section of the Constitution. Many things the Legislature may do, but
						there are a great many things the Legislature may not do. There are many things the
						Legislature may license and on the other side many things it may not license.
					If the Legislature, as it might do, were to establish a license system for
						slaughter-houses with regulations and restrictions and without any exception as to
						locality, it would not be insisted, I take it, that under such general license law a
						slaughter-house might be established on the main street in the heart of Indianapolis. If
						the Legislature were to provide, as it might, a license system for rolling-mills, and
						boiler and iron foundries, and without  any exceptions as
						to locality, it would not be claimed that under such general license system, a company
						might establish a rolling-mill, and another a boiler and iron foundry beside the
						slaughter-house on the main street and in the heart of our city.
					The Legislature might provide a system for licensing pest-hospitals with regulations
						and restrictions, and without any exceptions as to locality, but it would not be
						contended by the legal profession, I take it, that a man might establish a pest-house on
						the main street and inthe heart of the city of Indianapolis. These propositions are
						thoroughly supported by the authorities cited in my original brief in this case. On the
						principle of law recognized and established, I inquire, how can a saloon be established
						in the neighborhood described in the complaint in this case, and referred to in the
						original brief herein, and be maintained and protected? The appellants have not asked in
						this case and do not now ask in this case to overthrow any principle of law which has
						prevailed for centuries nor for one day in any Christian or civilized government. But,
						on the other hand, the appellants do urge the Court to recognize and apply the
						principles of law to this case that are applied and have been applied in the high Courts
						of the various States, and even by the Supreme Court of the United States, in the
						protection of private and public  rights of property and
						individuals as well as the peace and good order of the community and the enjoyment and
						protection of the homes.
					The Legislature cannot license gambling, nor prize-fighting, nor cock-fighting, nor
						duelling, nor prostitution, because these things are injurious to public morals and
						public peace, and are immoral in themselves. The Legislature cannot provide a system for
						licensing any phase of immorality because of the constitutional provision to which I
						have called attention. While the Legislature, I concede, may by a constitutional Act
						license, regulate, and restrict the sale of liquor, it could not, in connection with the
						sale of liquors, license gambling or any other immoral thing. It is no more necessary,
						and I appeal to the Court for careful consideration of the proposition I present when I
						say, it is no more necessary to license a saloon in connection with licensing,
						regulating, and restricting the sale of liquor, than it is to connect gambling and other
						vices with the same. There is just as much actual necessity and less danger to the
						community, for persons to meet together for the purpose of gaming, as for drinking
						intoxicating liquors. The proposition that the authority to license, regulate, and
						restrict the sale of liquor carries with it the authority to license a saloon, cannot be
						maintained. The proposition that the  Legislature may
						license, regulate, and restrict the sale of liquor as is settled by the Courts, is based
						upon the theory that in so providing, the evil effects and consequences growing out of
						the use of intoxicating liquors shall by such legislation be prevented, mitigated, or
						reduced to the lowest possible degree. Any legislation that accomplishes these purposes
						is within the scope of the constitutional provision. Any legislation upon this subject
						which aggravates and multiplies the evils and disastrous effects growing out of the use
						and abuse of intoxicating liquors is in violation of the Constitution. The question
						whether the purpose of the Constitution which re quires that the Legislature shall, by
						the best means, provide for morality, is being carried out by an Act of the Legislature,
						is a question addressed to the Courts, comes within its duty, and from which there is no
						escaping the responsibility. This question is not left solely to the Legislature nor is
						the duty and responsibility in the premises more with the Legislature than with the
						Courts.
					It will not do for Courts to refer litigants, whose rights of property and person have
						been invaded and who are suffering from the same at the hands of a merciless foe to the
						whole human race, to the Legislature for the relief and protection against
						unconstitutional legislation. It is the province and duty of the Court to inquire into
						the effects and results  of legislation for the purpose of
						determining whether the purpose and objects of the Constitution are being promoted or
						defeated by legislation. It is a well-settled proposition that all laws must be
						construed in the interest of public health and public morals. No contract between
						individuals, nor where the State is a party, can be binding, where the consideration
						involved, or the subject-matter, is immoral or injurious to public morals.
					The Supreme Court of Indiana held in 1879 in the case of Kellum vs.
						The State, 66th Indiana, 588, that the provision for a lottery in the charter to the
						Vincennes University was in the nature of a contract and might be the subject of a
						contract with the State of Indiana, and was binding. But afterwards with more light and
						the growth of general intelligence and public conscience aiding the Court, in 1883, in
						the case of the State vs. Woodward, 89th Indiana, 110, the Court held
						that a lottery could not be the subject of a contract, because it was immoral and
						annulled the charter to that extent.
					No individual nor the State of Indiana can be bound by a contract for an immoral
						consideration nor an immoral purpose. This is the settled law in Indiana. I repeat here
						a quotation, made in my original brief, from the Supreme Court of the United States that
						has been often reiterated by that Court: "No Legislature can bargain away  the public health or the public morals. The people
						themselves cannot do it, much less their servants. Government is organized with a view
						to their preservation and can not divest itself of the power to provide for them."
					The Constitution of Indiana is careful to say: "It shall be the duty of the General
						Assembly to encourage by all suitable means, moral, intellectual, scientific, and
						agricultural improvements," etc. The Constitution makes it the duty of the Legislature
						to encourage by all suitable means moral improvement. It will not do
						to say that a saloon license law was in operation at the time when our present
						Constitution was adopted and had been long prior thereto in Indiana, and that because
						the Constitution is silent upon that subject, it thereby shall be construed to sanction
						the continuance of such legislation, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire had
						license laws at the time of the adoption of their State Constitutions that were in force
						in 1845 and 1846. Their respective Constitutions were silent on the subject of the sale
						of intoxicating liquors. After the adoption of their respective Constitutions, the
						respective Legislatures of those States passed what were substantially prohibitory laws.
						The question was raised in each of these States that these Statutes were in conflict
						with the Constitution of the State, also in violation of the  provisions of the Constitution of the United States. These questions were passed upon
						by the Supreme Courts of these States, and also by the Supreme Court of the United
						States, in Thurlow vs. Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 5th Howard, 504,
						in which it is held that such legislation is valid, notwithstanding the silence of the
						Constitution. The same question on the same kind of a case came before the Supreme Court
						of the United States from Iowa (where the Constitution of the State of Iowa was silent
						upon the subject of licensing and regulating the liquor-traffic) yet the Legislature
						passed a prohibitory law and the Supreme Court held that the Act was valid,
						notwithstanding the silence of the Constitution upon that subject.
					But I insist that the Constitution of Indiana is not silent upon the question I am now
						presenting to this Court. It does specifically command legislation in the interests and
						for the promotion of public morals, and does thereby prohibit any legislation that would
						be against the interests of public morals. It is not the purpose of a State Constitution
						to specify the form nor method of legislation. It only lays down principles. If
						statutory laws existing when a constitutional provision goes into effect cannot be
						harmonized with the Constitution when it takes effect, then the Statute is annulled by
						the constitutional provision.  I concede that a statutory
						law providing a license system for saloons existed at the time when our present State
						Constitution took effect in 1851. The Constitution in the light of that Statute made it
						the duty of the Legislature to promote by all suitable means public morality. In the
						light of public intelligence and judicial knowledge of Courts and the common conscience
						there are more reasons for saying that the present Constitution contemplated prohibiting
						a saloon license system by these provisions, than for saying it meant to leave such a
						system to stand forever. The constitutional provision contemplates the growing demands
						of public morality. That these demands whatever and whenever arising shall be met. No
						man of intelligence and candor can reconcile the constitutional requirement placed upon
						the Legislature to promote public morals with the maintenance of the saloon license Act
						of the Legislature. Every intelligent man knows, and the Court cannot avoid the judicial
						knowledge, that the Act of the Legislature providing for a saloon license system is
						against the interests of public morals. The Constitution and this Act with the history
						and results of such legislation cannot be reconciled. No process of
							reasoning can harmonize the two. No evasion, no quibbling, and no dicta can satisfy
							common intelligence and common conscience upon this question. Do the  results and effects of this Act tend to accomplish the
						promotion of public morals as required by the Constitution, or do they defeat and
						destroy public morals? These are the questions presented to this
							Court. I bring this Act of the Legislature before this Court for these two
						inquiries. These are not questions for the Legislature alone. This Court is not bound by
						the Act of the Legislature, unless it is in harmony with the Constitution, and this
						Court is bound by the Constitution to declare an Act void unless it is in harmony with
						the Constitution. It is far more serious in the consequences that follow for the Court
						to hesitate or fail in the discharge of a duty placed upon it, than it would be for the
						Legislature because of the superior intelligence and greater opportunity on the part of
						the Court for consideration of the question involved. I hold up the Constitution of
						Indiana and this saloon license Act of the Indiana Legislature side by side before this
						Court. Here is the constitutional provision: "Knowledge and learning, generally diffused
						throughout a community, being essential to the preservation of a free government, it
						shall be the duty of the General Assembly to encourage, by all suitable means, moral,
						intellectual, scientific, and agricultural improvement, and to provide by law for a
						general and uniform system of common schools, wherein tuition shall be without charge
						and equally open to  all." Here is the first Section of the
						Act (sufficient to present the point). "It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or
						indirectly, to sell, barter, or give away, for any purpose of gain, any spirituous,
						vinous, or malt liquor, in a less quantity than a quart at a time, without first
						procuring, from the Board of Commissioners of the County in which such liquor is to be
						sold, a license as hereinafter provided; nor shall any person, without having first
						procured such license, sell or barter any intoxicating liquor to be drunk, or suffer to
						be drunk, in his house, outhouse, yard, garden, or the appurtenances thereto
						belonging."
					In the language of the Supreme Court of the United States: "Courts are not bound by
						mere forms nor are they to be misled by mere pretenses, they are at liberty, indeed, are under a solemn duty to look at the substance of things whenever
							they enter upon the inquiries, whether the Legislature has transcended the limits of
							its authority." If therefore a Statute purporting to have been enacted and to
						protect the public health, the public morals, or the public safety has no real or
						substantial relation to those objects, or is a palpable invasion of the rights secured
						by the fundamental law, it is the duty of the Court to so adjudge and thereby give
						effect to the Constitution. I call attention, as I have a right to do, to the history
						and results of such legislation as this.  Such legislation
						has a character and reputation, the most notorious of any other legislation in the
						history of this nation.
					At this point I refer again to my original brief, not only on this particular point but
						on all the citations and points cited in it. But I quote a few expressions from
						different higher sources of information which are more fully set out in the original
						brief: The Indianapolis Daily Journal: "The open saloon is a
						universal public enemy." The Indianapolis News: "The saloon is a
						vicious, dangerous plague-spot on our Christian civilization and must be rooted out.
						There is not room for it and liberty to live; one or the other must go." The Bishop's
						Address: "It cannot be licensed without sin." The Supreme Court of the United States:
						"By the general concurrence of opinion of every civilized and Christian community, there
						are few sources of crime and misery to society equal to the dram-shop where intoxicating
						liquors in small quantities to be drunk at the time are sold indiscriminately to all
						parties applying." The statistics of every State show a greater amount of crime and
						misery attributable to the use of ardent spirits obtained in these retail liquor
						saloons, than to any other source. This language of the Supreme Court of the United
						States, brings the saloon clearly within the definition of a common law nuisance, and
						classed under wrongs 
						malum in se. I quote from Wood's Law of Nuisance, Section 24: "The
						experience of all mankind condemns any occupation that tampers with the public morals,
						tends to idleness, and promotive of evil manners, and anything that produces such
						results finds no encouragement from the law, but is universally regarded and condemned
						by it as a public nuisance." . . . "If it comes within the rules that have been
						established by the Courts, and such have been dictated by the highest wisdom and
						soundest public policy, and is productive of the ill results that characterize these
						wrongs, it is a public nuisance, and will be punished as such." If the authority and
						protection given by this Act were withdrawn from the saloons in Indiana, not one of them
						could stand against an arraignment as a nuisance.
					Does the Constitution mean anything? Does it mean what it says when it uses the word
						moral? Does it mean moral or does it mean something else? I take it
						that the Constitution means what it says, when it uses the word moral, it means moral.
						When the Constitution says the Legislature shall provide by all suitable means for the
						promotion of morality, the framers of the Constitution knew what they were talking
						about, meant what they said, and expected of the Legislature what the provision in the
						Constitution requires.




					


					Does an inquiry into the question whether an act of the Legislature is in harmony with
						the Constitution mean anything? Does such an inquiry mean a whitewashing process? Does
						it mean the looking into a question with one eye shut, or does it mean that the inquiry
						shall go to the bottom, beyond the form into the substance, to the actual common-sense
						view and consideration of grave facts?
					As a matter throwing some light upon this question, of the importance given and
						contemplated by the Constitution to the subject of morals, I call attention to Article
						9, Section 1, of the first and only Constitution of Indiana prior to the present
						Constitution. In the Constitution of 1816, in the Article and Section to which I call
						attention, provision is made for the promotion of several special objects, among which
						were "intelligence," "science," "agriculture," "commerce," "art," "manufacture," and
						"natural history," and concludes in this language, "and to countenance and encourage all
						principles of humanity, honesty, industry, and morality." That this Section of the old
						Constitution with every provision in it was carefully considered in the adoption of
						Article 8, Section 1, of our present Constitution is very clear, for the Article
						referred to in our present Constitution begins by quoting the exact language contained
						in the beginning of the Article referred to in the old Constitution. The Article in the
						new is  much briefer than the one in the old Constitution,
						leaving out entirely more than half of the language and subjects embraced in the Section
						of the old Constitution. In the Section in the old Constitution the word morality is the
						last word in the Section, and is among the things in the Section that the Legislature
						was to "countenance and encourage." Things evidently considered of minor importance,
						and, the least of all, was morality. In the Section in our new Constitution, to which I
						have called attention, among the special subjects to be promoted by all suitable means,
						morals is the first named.
					The constitutional command to provide for public morals is not a mere incident in this
						Section of our present Constitution as it was in the former. Among the special subjects
						in our present Constitution that the Legislature is commanded to provide for, morals is
						given an especial prominence. This was no accident, as is clearly shown by considering
						the old Constitution and the new together, which is required under the rules of
						construction in the question I am presenting. It is clear, in the light of the history
						and comparison between the old Constitution and the present, that the framers of our
						present Constitution intended deliberately, with full comprehension of the language they
						used and idea expressed, to give the most important position and greatest prominence in
						the order  of subjects to be promoted by the Legislature,
						to the subjects of public morals, thus placing this subject ahead of public intelli
						gence, science, agriculture, education, public schools, and any other subject. Acting
						under the command and authority of the Section of our present Constitution relied upon
						in this case, the Legislature of Indiana has established, promoted, and maintained a
						State University, Agricultural College, special schools, and a public school system, and
						wonderful things have been accomplished thereby for the welfare of the citizens of our
						State. But, in total disregard of the most important specific subject in this
						Constitution provision, the Legislature has established, maintained, and permitted to be
						developed to a most alarming extent, a saloon license system, which has been more
						disastrous to public morals than any other evil known among men. It is a very doubtful
						question whether heretofore and to-day the six thousand saloons licensed by provision of
						our Legislature, have not done and are not to-day doing more harm and injury to the
						public morals, health, and peace of the citizens in the State of Indiana, than all the
						State educational institutions are doing good.
					I submit the inquiry to the judicial knowledge of this Court based upon the history,
						common knowledge, and general concurrence of Christian and civilized sentiment, whether
							 it is not true that the six thousand saloons in Indiana,
						licensed, authorized, and sanctioned by the legislative Act complained of, are not doing
						as much harm to the public morals in Indiana as all the educational institutions
						supported by the State, are doing good? I put the good done by the educational
						institutions supported by the State of Indiana down beside the evil done by the six
						thousand saloons licensed by Act of the Legislature in Indiana, and ask that, upon the
						showing made, a balance be struck. In my original brief I made the statement, and
						supported it, that Courts took judicial knowledge of the civilized and Christian
						sentiment of the country, and regard such sentiments whenever they have application to a
						question before the Court; that such sentiments become a part of judicial knowledge and
						enter into the decision of questions. (I need not repeat the lengthy array, showing
						numerous expressions from the highest sources of credibility upon the question as to the
						character and effect of saloons as institutions, not only one saloon but all saloons.
						There are no exceptions as to the moral effect of saloons. There may be degrees
						however.
					Without repeating, I refer again to all these expressions concerning the saloon and
						ask, are these things so? Are these statements true? Are these institutions
							what they are said to be? Are these institutions doing what they are said to be  doing? I do not believe a candid and intelligent man
						can be found who would controvert what is said against the saloon. Let it be borne in
						mind that I am not now talking about the right of the Legislature to regulate and
						restrict and license the sale of intoxicating liquor. I am conceding all that in the
						broadest and fullest sense, but I am talking about the saloons, the institutions, the
						places, not necessarily connected with the licensing, regulating, and restricting of the
						sale of liquor. I ask, are these institutions which are provided for in the licensed
						saloon system, in their character and effect and results of their work, what the Court
						knows them to be and what the Christian and civilized sentiment and the people declare
						them to be? This being so, the Act of the Legislature that licenses these institutions
						cannot be in harmony or reconciled with, nor claim the protection of the Constitution of
						the State of Indiana. Instead of licensing a saloon, in connection with the licensing
						the sale of intoxicating liquors; instead of conferring the authority to open a place
						where persons are invited to assemble wherein intoxicating liquors may be sold and
						drunk; that is the very thing that ought not to be licensed in connection with such
						sale.
					The Legislature can provide for licensing the sale of intoxicating liquors without
						providing for licensing the saloon. It could  license the
						sale without licensing the saloon. Among the regulations and restrictions connected with
						the sale of intoxicating liquors there ought to be a provision against every saloon
						feature. The business of selling intoxicating liquors is a hazardous business to the
						public in any form, because of the nature of the thing sold.
					In the opinion in this case this Court says: "The theory of the Legislature upon this
						subject is, that the business is one which requires restraint, because it is harmful to
						society." The Supreme Court of the United States in the case of Crowley vs. Christensen says: "As it is a business attended with danger to the
						community, it may, as already said, be entirely prohibited, or may be permitted under
						such conditions as will limit to the utmost its evils." This declaration of the Supreme
						Court of the United States concerning the sale of intoxicating liquors, that it "may be permitted under such conditions as will limit to the utmost its
							evils" is exactly the position I want to be understood as taking in this case.
						The Legislature may license, regulate, and restrict the sale of intoxicating liquors
						under the conditions defined by the Supreme Court, and the Legislature may not do it
						otherwise. Especially is this true under our Constitution in Indiana.
					There is a large discretion, I concede also, given to the Legislature in devising the
							 means and in exercising its judgment as to the best
						means for licensing, regulating, and restricting the business, and limiting the evils
						connected therewith. But, however wide may be the discretion, and whatever latitude may
						be left to the judgment of the Legislature upon this subject, it is the duty of the
						Court to inquire into the action of the Legislature upon the subject, into
							the substance of it, into the effect and results of it, to
							determine, in fact, whether the legislation does accomplish or defeat the end
						sought by the Constitution. Whatever may be the subject acted upon by the Legislature in
						the passage of a civil or criminal Act, if the effect and result of its action is to
						defeat the promotion of public morals, it is the duty of the Supreme Court to declare it
						void when the question is presented.
					When the Legislature, acting upon the subject of the sale of intoxicating liquors, as
						it might legally do, provided for the license, regulation, and restriction of the same,
						as it might legally do, goes beyond and transcends the limits of its authority, and
						provides for licensing saloons in connection with such sales, with the light of the
						history of such legislation before it, with all the disastrous consequences and results
						following such legislation, it is the duty of the Court, when called upon by proper
						proceedings, to interpose for the protection of the Constitution.  There is no necessity for the Legislature connecting the saloon and the sale
						of liquor. They are not necessarily parts of the same thing. They are not necessarily
						branches of the same business. The saloon is exactly and distinctly the business that
						ought not to be connected with the sale of intoxicating liquors. The saloon multiplies
						and aggravates the evils naturally growing out of the sale of intoxicating liquors
						instead of limiting and lessening them.
					In the opinion in this case, this Court says: "The position of the appellants is a
						moral one. There is no instance in the books where such a position has been assumed. I
						can name one other instance in the books where exactly this moral position was assumed.
						I take it that the instance to which I shall refer is one of considerable importance and
						entitled to very serious consideration. The instance appears in the Constitution of the
						State of Indiana in Article 8, Section I, where the Legislature is commanded to provide
						by all suitable means for the promotion of morality. I do not deem it necessary to
						present to this Court many books on this subject, as this one book is binding upon us
						all in this forum. In the Baltimore Potomac R. R. Co. vs. 5th Baptist
						Church, etc., 108th U. S. Supreme Court, page 739, a case very much like this case,
						where the R. R. Company, upon a license from the Legislature for  certain privileges, established its engine-house and repair-shops beside a
						Church, thereby disturbing the occupants and worship of the Church, and injured the
						value and enjoyment of their property, was enjoined from maintaining the same, upon the
						grounds that it was a nuisance, notwithstanding their license. Speaking upon the rights
						of property and its enjoyment in that case the Supreme Court said: "The great principle
						of common law which is equally the teaching of Christian morality, so to use one's
						property as not to injure others, forbids any other application or use of the rights and
						powers conferred." It is sometimes said that there are no common law rights left to
						citizens of this country. This is a serious mistake. The case from which I have just
						quoted was decided in 1882, in which a licensed institution was enjoined and a common
						law right maintained as against a Statute. I quote from this last decision of the
						highest Court in this nation, also, for the purpose of showing that Christian morality
						and common law morality, common sense morality, and morality are all
						the same thing. In other words, that morality is morality, in legal
						contemplation, whether it is applied to Christian people, good citizenship, the sale of
						liquor, or saloons. I do, therefore, assume a moral position. Though it may be a
						position never assumed before in the presence of this Court, yet I venture to stand on
							 it with both feet and face the Court, armed I only with
						the law of God, which is the law of the land, and the fundamental law of the State of
						Indiana. I find precedence for this position in these two books. It is stated in one of
						these books that "one shall chase a thousand and two put ten thousand to flight." I am
						here to test the question whether two women fighting for their "altars and their fires"
						and their home, may not put to flight six thousand saloon-keepers and drive out of their
						fortifications that they have been enabled to build under the protection and
						guardianship of this devilish license system in Indiana.
					I beg the Court not to overlook the damage feature involved in this question to the
						appellants, caused by the establishment of a saloon beside their home, on account of
						which this suit is brought. The Court states another feature of the case when it says
						the appellants assume a moral position. The moral position assumed by the appellants is
						because the institution, claiming the protection of the law, that is set down beside
						their home, is an immoral and ruinous institution. It is true in part that the
						appellants' position assumed is a moral one; it is just as true that the appellees'
						position assumed is an immoral one, and the question is presented to the Court, whether
						morality or immorality shall prevail. The appellees are admitting all that  is alleged in the complaint against the institution and the
						business, and the location and effect of the saloon which they maintain to the injury of
						the appellants, but assert their license as a sole, yet a complete, defense in this
						action. Is the institution and the business carried on by these appellees a moral or an
						immoral business in all candor? Apply to this business any test considered in any way
						under the light of moral contemplation, either as to the form or substance of this
						business. If it is moral, then their defense is complete. If it is immoral, it can be no
						defense at all. If this were the only saloon in Indiana, located as it is, I dare say
						there would be little difficulty in suppressing it, but as it is a part of a great
						system we are compelled to attack the system. My opposing counsel will not deny the
						proposition that if the Legislature of Indiana were to pass an Act attempting to make
						gambling contracts legal, that such an Act would be void, on the ground of immorality.
						If the Legislature were to pass an Act attempting to make the wages of immorality a
						legal claim collectible by suit at law, such an Act would be void on the ground of
						immorality. If the Legislature cannot make immorality the subject of contract nor legal
						liability, how can the Legislature license and thereby protect immorality? It would make
						no difference of principle if the institution established 
						in the place of this saloon were a gambling-house or a house of ill-fame licensed by an
						Act of the Legislature, it is only the question of an immoral business.
					Let it be borne in mind, I am not asking this Court to overthrow any principle that has
						been long settled. It has never been settled that a saloon is a moral institution on
						principle, on theory, or in fact. It is as thoroughly settled, as that lying is wrong,
						that the saloon business is an immoral business, not the business of one saloon, but the
						business of every saloon. This is settled and conclusive in the minds of all men, and in
						the knowledge of all Courts of any respectability. This is a fact settled on principle,
						because of the nature of the business itself. This principle, this
							universal conclusion, this sound proposition, this unanswerable fact, I present
						to the Court and then claim that the principle involved is that such an immoral business
						cannot stand; I am asking the Court to sustain, not to overthrow, a principle of the
						most vital importance.
					In some of the decisions of this Court and elsewhere, speaking of the license, it is
						said that the license is a permit, sometimes that it is a tax, sometimes that it is
						regulation and restriction. All this looks to me like an effort to weaken the strength
						of an offensive term, to shorten, sugar-coat, and break the effect of the term license.
						Why not say that  license is license? This is a fact. Why
						try to explain it or soften terms? In the opinion in this case there is much said about
						the purposes of the license law, being to regulate and restrict the sale of intoxicating
						liquors. Nothing at all is said about the offensive character of the thing licensed. Why
						not say that the license law licenses saloons, and that the term saloon means saloon
						with all the term implies? When we have used terms that are thoroughly understood by all
						the people, by all the Courts, terms that are not ambiguous, that are full of meaning
						and thoroughly comprehended, the use of such terms facilitate and make clear legal
						propositions and legal arguments. Therefore, when I speak of this license law, I mean
						this saloon license law. When I speak of license, I mean license. When I speak of
						saloons, I mean saloons.
				

				
					PUBLIC POLICY.

					The opinion in this case quotes from the case in 5th Wallace, 462: "The Court can know
						nothing of public policy except from the Constitution and the laws." I accept that
						statement of a legal proposition as absolutely correct. I want to present the
						proposition contained in that statement as it applies to this case. That proposition
						implies that the Court must look to both the Legislation  and the Constitution in determining a question of
						public policy. Such a question is not left to the Legislature alone. The Legislature is
						not the sole judge, and its action is not final on matters of public policy where a
						constitutional question arises. When the Constitution commands a given course of action
						upon a subject, that course of action upon that subject is absolutely binding upon the
						Legislature, and that course of action upon that subject is settled public policy. This
						is in accordance with the principle defined in the quotation from the Supreme Court of
						the United States used by this Court in its opinion in this case.
					This Court is bound to look to the Constitution and see what is the policy upon a given
						subject, and by looking to the constitutional provision herein referred to, the Court
						will find the subject of morality presented in the Constitution and the policy demanded
						of the Legislature, is to provide by "suitable means" for the promotion of this subject.
						The Legislature, in the Act referred to, providing for the licensing of saloons, has
						adopted a policy directly in conflict with the policy laid down and commanded in the
						Constitution. The Constitution commands the promotion of morality. The legislative Act
						provides for the destruction of morality. I hold up this constitutional command and
						policy beside the legislative Act and results  and say that
						the policy and results in the Act are in direct conflict with the policy and purposes in
						the Constitution. There can be no process of reasoning, no attempt at softening or
						modifying of terms, there is no way known to the process of intelligent and candid
						consideration of a question by which this constitutional policy and this legislative
						policy can be harmonized. It cannot be said that this saloon license system promotes
						morality. It can be and must be said that it promotes immorality. An immoral institution
						licensed by Act of the Legislature must be declared an outlaw and without protection,
						because the Constitution will not tolerate such a thing.
					It is a matter fully within the judicial knowledge of this Court that the whole
						combined interests of the liquor-traffic stand as a unit in favor of maintaining and
						protecting this license system, not only in Indiana, but in every State in the Union,
						where they have such a system, and in States where they have not such a system, the same
						interests are a unit in the effort to secure such a system. It is within the judicial
						knowledge of this Court that the saloon-keepers in the State of Indiana have recently
						formed a State association with subordinate branches, the purpose of which is to
						maintain this saloon license system. It is within the judicial knowledge of this Court
						that under this saloon license system the saloon-keepers and liquor-dealers  have grown in numbers and prospered in wealth, and gained
						such influence in politics and otherwise, that they dominate the Legislature of Indiana,
						and dominate politics, and dominate politicians, and, in many instances, dominate the
						lower Courts, and defy the laws of the State, and announce that they cannot be
						enforced.
					As a matter of public occurrence I call the attention of this Court to the editorial
						comments in certain newspapers which are devoted exclusively to the interests of the
						liquor-traffic and saloon business throughout the nation concerning the decision
						rendered in this case, in which the attention of the saloon-keepers and liquor-dealers
						in the nation, are called to the effect of the decision as favorable to that business,
						and use language of the highest commendation. Such papers as the Washington City Sentinel; The Southwest, of Cincinnati, Ohio; The Champion, of Chicago, Illinois; and Mida's
							Criterion. Especially I call attention to an editorial concerning the decision in
						this case in The Champion of Chicago, of date February 11, 1892. In
						that editorial is quoted and most highly approved an editorial from the Criterion, which is too long to quote here, but it concludes as follows: "Listen
						to the aphorisms laid down by the honorable Court:"
					"These licenses give no authority. They are mere receipts for taxes."



					


					"License is wholly within the discretion of the State Legislatures."
					"License laws are prohibitory in their character."
					"If it were not for legislative restriction by license, anyone might engage in the
						business of selling intoxicating liquors without limitation or restraint."
					"The object of the law is to protect the community from the evils of intemperance."
					A decision by this high and honorable Court, received with words of the highest
						commendation and praise by the organs representing the "universal public enemy," and the
						shouts that have gone up from the saloons in the nation, and from dens of immorality on
						the one side, and the expressions of regret from every civilized and Christian source on
						the other side, are matters of such serious concern as seem to me to require a careful
						reconsideration of the decision and the issues and questions involved.
					Any policy of legislation thoroughly indorsed by this immoral business, this
						law-defying element, this powerful influence and combination; any policy sought to be
						maintained by this element and these combinations, and which affords the best conditions
						for the prosperity of this dangerous business, is supported upon a policy at war with
						the Constitution. All the religious bodies, all the organizations established upon
						benevolent  and humane principles, all the organizations
						formed for the promotion of morality and resistance of immorality, all men of high
						character and distinguished for good works in the line of Christianity, benevolence, and
						morality in Indiana, all that civilized and Christian sentiment referred to by the
						Supreme Court of the United States, are arrayed in antagonism to the policy represented
						in the Act of the Legislature presented to this Court. Assuming that morality means
						morality, and that immorality means immorality, the morality in the Constitution and the
						immorality in this Act represent the two sides of hostile forces.
				

				
					NO SALOONS WITHOUT LICENSE.

					In the opinion in this case the Court says: "The law in exacting a license fee does not
						grant a privilege that did not before exist, but, on the contrary, lays a special tax
						upon a pursuit, which, but for the Statute, might be followed without paying any special
						tax." This statement is quoted from Lutz vs. the City of
						Crawfordsville, 109th Indiana, 406. Then the Court proceeds further to say: "Many other
						cases in our own reports declare the same general doctrine." Whatever the Supreme Court
						of Indiana may have said heretofore concerning the privilege, to sell liquor granted in
						the license, the question of  the constitutionality of the
						law that licenses saloons has never been presented to this Court, nor to any other
						Court. The Supreme Court of Indiana has never spoken on that issue.
					I deny that these cases, cited and quoted from in the opinion in this case, have any
						application to the issue now before the Court. When the Court says that the license Act
						"lays a special tax upon a pursuit, which, but for the Statute, might be followed
						without paying any special tax," I cannot accept that declaration of law as correct, if
						it is intended to be applied to the saloon business. I want to be understood as assuming
						and standing squarely on the proposition that the business of keeping a saloon could not
						be maintained without license for a saloon.
					In the opinion in this case, referring to my use and application in my former brief and
						oral argument of the language of the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case of
						Crowley vs. Christensen, this Court says: "Counsel seizes upon a
						fragmentary expression in the opinion from which we have quoted, and isolating it from
						its associated words, affirm that it sustains the contention that the State has no power
						to regulate the liquor-traffic by providing that dealers shall take out a license." I
						respectfully ask the Court to reread my former brief and reconsider my oral argument. I
						am satisfied that  by so reading and so considering all
						that I have said the Court will see that it is wholly mistaken in my position, and my
						application of the language in that case. I can readily see on this misapprehension of
						my position how the Court could use the following language concerning my brief: "In
						affirming this, one of the plainest and most elementary principles of logic and of law
						is violated by counsel, for a clause or sentence is always to be considered in
						connection with the words with which it is associated." This language used by the Court
						concerning myself and my position is very strong. I take this occasion to plead not
						guilty, and to say that there is not one item of evidence in support of the charge. I
						did not seize upon any fragmentary expression. I did not isolate any expression from its
						connection. I did not make any such application of any such expressions, or of the
						decision in that case as is stated. I take pleasure in saying that I have a very high
						regard and respect for this Court and the members thereof, but I have also self-respect.
						The language in the opinion in this case is certainly hasty and does me an injustice.
						The purpose for which I used that decision, the applications I made of its language was:
						First, to show the judicial knowledge taken by the highest tribunal in the Government of
						the dangerous character and results of the saloon business; second, to  show the judicial knowledge taken by the Court of the
						civilized and Christian sentiment of the land; and, third, to establish the proposition
						that there is no inherent right in a citizen of any State, or of the United States, to
						sell by retail intoxicating liquors.
					Nobody will controvert the first and second of these propositions, nor that they are
						thoroughly supported by that decision and highest authority. Let us see whether the same
						authority does not fully support the third proposition. I quote from that decision:
						"There is no inherent right in a citizen to thus sell intoxicating liquors by retail; it
						is not a privilege of a citizen of the State, or of a citizen of the United States."
						This quotation is the whole of a sentence and contains the whole statement of a
						conclusion. It contains no argument. The sentence shows that it is no part of the
						process of reasoning, but that it is the final statement of a conclusion from the
						reasoning that has gone before. If the quotation states a conclusion of law (it speaks
						for itself in that respect), and I gave the whole statement and the language exactly as
						it appears in the statement, then I have committed no violence. There is no ambiguity in
						the language used in the quotation and the sense is complete. It requires no
						construction to ascertain the meaning. What does that Court mean? Do I understand this
						Court to mean by what it  says in the opinion in this case
						that by taking all the language of that decision of the United States Supreme Court, and
						each part of it, in connection with all the other parts, that the Supreme Court of the
						United States when it said, "there is no inherent right in a citizen of any State or of
						the United States to sell intoxicating liquors by retail," etc., it meant that there is an inherent right? The United States Supreme Court certainly
						meant to find, and meant to say, that there is or is not an inherent right, etc., and
						its language is, there is no inherent right. Does it mean what it
						says?
					Certainly that high tribunal meant to decide something concerning the inherent right to
						sell intoxicating liquors by retail. I cannot here present and apply the rules of
						grammar and rhetoric, or the rules of judicial construction, but I call on this Court at
						its leisure to make an application of all these rules familiar to the common-school
						teachers, and school children, and the University professors, and the students, or the
						legal profession, to determine whether in any of these respects I have done violence to
						that decision of the Court. I am willing to be tested by the rules laid down in the
						books. It is nowhere in that decision intimated that there is an inherent right in any
						citizen of the United States or of any State to sell intoxicating liquors by retail. It
						is specifically and distinctly  stated that there is no
						such inherent right.
					A thing that a man has no inherent right to do, he violates the law if he does it,
						unless the right to do the particular thing which was not inherent has been created and
						conferred upon him.
					Suppose we had no saloon license law in Indiana, and the appellees were conducting a
						saloon, as they are, and as presented in this case, would they be violators of the law?
						If so, what law? Section 289 of the Revised Statutes, 1881, of Indiana, reads: "Whatever
						is injurious to health or indecent or offensive to the senses or an obstruction to the
						free use of property, so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
						life or property, is a nuisance and the subject of an action." Section 290: "Such action
						may be brought by a person whose property is injuriously affected or whose personal
						enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance." Section 291: "Where a proper case is made, a
						nuisance may be enjoined or abated and damages recovered therefor." I refer to the
						citations in the Statute following these Sections.
					In McLaughlin vs. The State, 45th Ind., 338, it is held that a
						nuisance may be adjudged such in order to be abated either in a civil or criminal case.
						Section 2066, "makes any offensive business (and specifies many such) a  public nuisance." The Section is too long to quote in this
						brief, but it is a criminal Statute against the maintenance of any business that is
						injurious to health, comfort, or property of individuals, or the public. With these
						Statutes concerning nuisance and the general law on the subject as laid down in Wood on
						the Law of Nuisances, which are quoted in this and in my original brief, with the
						numerous decisions in our Courts, there cannot be a moment's doubt that this saloon
						could be abated, the appellees punished for maintaining it, and damages recovered, if it
						were not for the guardianship and protection given by the Act complained of in this
						case, in the way of a license, to this business.
					The Statutes concerning nuisances are ample both in their civil and criminal provisions
						to give relief and protection to these appellants, if the appellees were left to their
						inherent rights. There is not only no inherent right to conduct the business complained
						of in this case, but there are numerous and ample provisions for suppressing the same,
						if it were not for the license saloon law. The declaration in the opinion of the Court
						in this case is that; "the law in exacting a license fee does not grant a privilege that
						did not before exist." The Supreme Court of the United States has distinctly said that
						no such privilege does exist in any individual citizen of the United States or of a  State, and the declaration of the Court in the opinion in
						this case is in direct antagonism to the declaration of the Supreme Court of the United
						States on this question. Further the opinion in this case says, "but, on the contrary,
						lays a special tax upon a pursuit which, but for the Statute, might be followed without
						paying any special tax." This expression also is in direct antagonism to the law as
						declared by the Supreme Court of the United States, for the declaration of this Court is
						that there is an inherent right outside of the Statute to pursue the business complained
						of in this case.
					I ask the Court in all candor to test and apply the decision of the Supreme Court of
						the United States to the issue in this case and to the question now under consideration,
						and see whether I am not right, and whether my views are not in harmony with the
						decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, which is binding upon this Court.
						This Court has several times and especially in the Vincennes University case, overruled
						its own decision in order to harmonize with that Court of last resort. It would not be
						justice to the litigants in this case to compel them, as they must be unless full
						consideration shall be given to the question, to go to the Supreme Court of the United
						States. The license Act does in its effect, and by its terms, undertake to confer a
						right upon individuals  and upon the appellees in this
						case, to conduct and maintain a business that they could not maintain and conduct
						without the privilege so conferred. If there was no license Act, and the appellees
						undertook to pursue the business complained of in this case, they would be standing upon
						their inherent rights and would be in direct hostility to the Statutes concerning
						nuisances, and the decisions and declaration of the Supreme Court of the . United
						States. That was exactly the position of Christensen in San Francisco, California, whose
						case was presented to the Supreme Court of the United States, and they held he had no
						such right. Christensen claimed that he had the inherent right, as a citizen of the
						State and of the United States, to sell intoxicating liquors by retail, and that that
						inherent right could not be taken away from him by Statute. The Supreme Court decided
						that he had no such right and that the Legislature of California could license,
						regulate, and restrict the liquor-traffic. The effect of that decision was that
						Christensen had no inherent right to sell intoxicating liquors, but that he might secure
						the right by virtue of the Act of the California Legislature. That he might not pursue
						the business if there were no Statute on the subject, and that he could secure the
						authority under the license Act to conduct that business, but the Supreme Court did not
						hold in that case that an Act licensing 
						saloons is valid, because that question was in no way before the
						Court. It was merely licensing the sale of intoxicating liquors that was presented. The
						Supreme Court took the occasion to say, while they recognized the power of the
						Legislature to pass a license Act, that such business may, "be permitted under such
						conditions as will limit to the utmost its evils." Under this declaration, a law that
						licenses a saloon in connection with the sale of intoxicating liquors, and thereby
						aggravates and multiplies the evils, as our Legislative Act complained of does, would be
						invalid. I do not think that this Court, upon a reconsideration of the issue involved
						here, and which is presented here for the first time that the issue has ever been before
						any Court, an issue based on the Constitution of Indiana, a question peculiar and
						distinct from any other that has been considered by the Courts, I say I do not believe
						that this Court will be willing to put of record a decision that any man might pursue
						the business of conducting a saloon in Indiana, without violating the law, if we had no
						license saloon Act. I cannot believe that this Court, upon reconsideration and
						reflection, will put of record a decision in the light of our Constitution which will
						declare that this demoralizing, disturbing, disastrous saloon business, licensed by the
						Legislature of Indiana, is a business in harmony with the provision of our Constitution,
							 which requires the Legislature to promote morality by
						all suitable means.
					I hereinbefore quoted from the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of
						Baltimore Potomac R. R. Co. vs. 5th Baptist Church, and repeat the
						quotation here: "The great principle of the common law, which is equally the teaching of
						Christian morality, so to use one's property as not to injure others, forbids any other
						application or use of the rights and powers conferred." This language was used in a case
						involving exactly the same principle involved in this case. It also defines what is
						meant in law by morality. Morality, as contemplated by common law, morality, as
						contemplated by Christianity, and morality, as contemplated by the Constitution of
						Indiana, is the same thing.
					I am fully aware that to meet the demands of the saloon influences in this State and to
						accomodate the same, there is a modified meaning given to that term. It is softened and
						all the meaning taken out of it, and it is made to mean something else by politicians
						and officers and persons who have an eye single to selfish interests. This term, so full
						of meaning, is looked upon and considered as empty and meaningless by persons who have
						been subjugated by these demoralizing influences.
					I call the attention of the Court to the fact that the question I am now presenting is
						a  new question, that it is based mainly upon the peculiar
						provisions of our State Constitution, and that this Court is now called upon to declare
						what the Constitution means, what are its demands, and whether its provisions are to be
						enforced against the most powerful and most dangerous combination that has ever been
						arrayed against this Government.
					Probably the most important case, considering the circumstances and effects, ever
						decided in England, was the case of Somerset vs. Stewart, in King's
						Bench, decided June 22, 1771. (See Loftin's Reports, Easter Term, 1st case.) About fifty
						years before that date Lords Hardwick, Talbott, and York had held that African slaves
						might legally be held in England, and from that date to the date of the decision in that
						case, that had been accepted as the law. A native was captured on the coast of Africa
						and brought to Virginia and sold as a slave. His name afterwards became James Somerset,
						and Charles Stewart, of Virginia, became his owner. In 1770 the master took his slave as
						a servant to England, and while there the slave refused to obey or recognize his
						master's authority. He was seized, put in irons, and placed on board a ship to be sent
						to Jamaica and sold. Thomas Watkins, Elizabeth Cady, and John Marlowe, Quakers, who had
						been actively engaged in opposition to slavery, made affidavit that Somerset had been
						imprisoned without  authority Upon that a writ of habeas
						corpus was issued out of the Court of King's Bench, commanding the captain of the ship
						to produce the body of Somerset in Court. The captain in his answer to the writ set out
						the facts, and the question was presented for consideration of the Court. The argument
						of the question before the Court was lengthy, and participated in by numerous advocates,
						in which was made very prominent, that the growth of Christian and civilized sentiment
						and public intelligence was such, that the law of England could not then be declared to
						be what it had been declared and understood to be fifty years before. Sergeant Davy,
						speaking of the effects of Christian and humane sentiment on the law of England, said
						among other things: "For the air of England, I think, however, it has been gradually
						purifying ever since the reign of Elizabeth."
					It was urged in argument on behalf of the master that the consequences of a decision in
						favor of the slave would be most disastrous. This consideration seems to have greatly
						impressed the Court, for the Court suggested a settlement; that the case would better
						not be pressed to a final determination; that the owner would better let the slave go
						than to jeopardize the tenure of all the slaves. It is apparent that the slave-holder
						and his legal advisers thought that the Court would not 
						dare to apply the actual principle of law involved in the case, because of the powerful
						influences arrayed against the slave, and the consequences that might follow. It was
						said, in argument, that fourteen to fifteen thousand slaves in England, and more than
						one hundred and sixty-six thousand negroes in Jamaica would be turned loose on England
						and fugitive blacks from all over the world would be seeking refuge on English soil.
						Lord Mansfield delivered the unanimous opinion of the Court. He said, in the language of
						that day, among other things: "The setting fourteen to fifteen thousand men at once
						free, loose by solemn opinion, is much disagreeable in the effect it threatens." . . .
						"If the parties will have judgment, fiat justitia, ruat clum, let
						justice be done, whatever be the consequences." . . . "Mr. Stewart may end the question
						by discharging or give freedom to the negro." . . . "But if the parties will have it
						decided, we must give our opinion." . . . "Compassion will not on the one hand, nor
						inconvenience on the other, be decided, but the law."
					The slave was liberated. There had been no Act of Parliament, no decision of Court,
						upon this question intervening for fifty years, and, since the declaration of law,
						directly the opposite.
					The Court in that case did not declare a new principle of law but made a different  application of an old principle of law. It reversed what had
						been declared to be and accepted as the law for more than fifty years, and did so, as
						the opinion clearly shows, because of the inhumanity, immorality, and injustice in the
						institution of slavery, of which the Court took judicial knowledge. That decision freed
						every slave then held in England. The dire consequences of such a decision, predicted in
						the argument, to commerce, domestic affairs, and social order, did not follow. The
						Christian civilization so adjusted the affairs that the effects of the decision came
						like a providential blessing to the whole people.
					More than one hundred years have passed, yet England points to it with pride, and it
						has had more to do with stimulating and sustaining the steady progress of humane and
						Christian principles in legislation and in Courts than any decision ever rendered by any
						Court in these one hundred years.
					At the December term, 1856, of the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case of
						Dred Scott vs. John F. A. Stanford, 19th Howard, was presented to the
						Supreme Court of the United States, a case very similiar in principle and spirit to the
						Somerset case in England. This last named case was fully presented to the Court and
						thoroughly argued, but the case came before the Court at a time when the question
						involved had become a  political question, political
						parties had taken their positions upon it and a desperate struggle was on concerning it.
						The question presented involved the rights of an individual, nothing less and nothing
						more, only so far as the effects of the decision might extend. No candid man will deny
						that the Court in that case was dominated and controlled by the demands of a political
						party and the powerful combination organized to maintain and protect a wicked
						institution. It was held in that case that, as slavery existed when the Constitution of
						the United States was adopted, that the instititution of slavery was thereby adopted.
						Just as I understand it to be claimed by the appellees' counsel in this case, that as a
						saloon license law existed when our present Constitution was adopted, that the saloon
						license system was thereby adopted forever. The rights of the individual had not a
						feather's weight in the consideration of that case by the Court. It was held, in
						substance, that the individual was without remedy and without rights and that the wicked
						institution with which he contended might extend its blasting influences over the free
						soil into every locality thereof. That decision was so shocking in its declaration of
						law, in the prejudice and weakness it exhibited, that it is designated as one of the
						dark chapters in the history of the nation. While the just, humane, and legal principles
						declared in the  Somerset case came, and remain, as a
						constant blessing to a great nation, the inhuman, unchristian, and false legal
						principles applied in the Dred Scott case, fanned to a blaze public controversy,
						weakened the confidence of the people in the Courts, and had a very large influence in
						causing the civil war which continued until the wicked institution was destroyed. The
						declaration of law, as laid down by the Supreme Court of the United States in the Dred
						Scott case was not the law. The court might have and ought to have declared the law.
					I cite the last two cases and use them in this argument for all there is in them. I
						mean by these two citations to call attention to the weal and woe to the individual and
						the public that sometimes depend on the decision of the Court. It is the policy of the
						law in all civilized governments, and has been ever since Moses came down from the
						summit of the smoking mountain, to protect the rights of persons and property of
						individuals against the despoiler. The appellants in this case, who represent the
						highest type of womanhood, had sought a location in a community unsurpassed in any city
						or in any State in the Union, and had there established a home and became residents and
						citizens, and tax-bearers, and in all respects obedient to the law. They are in no way
						at fault. The Act upon which appellees rely for protection 
						in this case deprives appellants of even the privilege of remonstrating against the
						granting of license, because they are women. Appellees came into that quiet
						neighborhood, settled down beside that happy home, and established a saloon with its
						blasting influence, and claim to be protected by an Act of the Legislature of Indiana.
						This Act, if valid, has deprived these women of sacred rights, and has conferred upon
						these men privileges of the most dangerous and ruinous character. Are these women
						helpless or remediless? Are they to be turned away from the courts of justice in Indiana
						without relief, to suffer irreparable damage, and be compelled to abandon their home? Is
						this saloon-keeper, with the five thousand others in Indiana, engaged in like business,
						to be thus encouraged and protected to pursue this business, and fattened on ill-gotten
						gains?
					It would not do to say that the question and this case are not properly presented to
						this Court. The whole of the case, all the material facts, and the legal propositions
						are now before this Court. There is no other way and no other process by which any more
						can be done than has been done in presenting this case. Let me concede that more
						powerful arguments might be made than has been made, and greater array of counsel and
						greater influences might be brought to bear than has been, but the case itself is its
						best  advocate. A decision can be rendered in this case in
						favor of the appellants based on sound principles, and if it can be, then there is every
						reason why such a decision shall be. It is not very difficult to find a way, nor to find
						legal principles to sustain a decision that protects the weak against the strong, the
						oppressed against the oppressor, the good against the bad, and the home against the
						saloon.
					I feel compelled to apologize to the Court for very much of what may seem to be mere
						repetition in this brief. This has seemed to me excusable because of a great anxiety to
						present all of the phases of this case and the anxiety to be fully understood.
					Wherefore appellants most respectfully ask a rehearing in this case.
					ELI F. RITTER,
					Attorney for Appellants.

				
			


		
	
