
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Sadler, William Samuel, 1875-. The cause and cure of colds. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1861
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
				
				THE CAUSE AND CURE OF COLDS
			

			
				
				BY THE SAME AUTHOR
				
				THE SCIENCE OF LIVING, OR, THE ART OF KEEPING WELL. With
					Appendix and Index and many drawings.
				8vo,$1.50 net.
				
				A. C. McCLURG & CO., PUBLISHERS CHICAGO
			

			
			
				
				
					
						FIG. 1. Sectional view of Nose and Throat
					
				
			
			
				
				
					
						THE CAUSE AND CURE OF COLDS
					
				
				BY
					WILLIAM S. SADLER, M.D. PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGIC THERAPEUTICS, THE
					POST-GRADUATE MEDICAL SCHOOL OF CHICAGO DIRECTOR OF THE CHICAGO INSTITUTE OF
					PHYSIOLOGIC THERAPEUTICS; MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, THE AMERICAN
					ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE, ETC., ETC. AUTHOR OF "THE SCIENCE OF
					LIVING; OR, THE ART OF KEEPING WELL" ILLUSTRATED 
				
					SECOND EDITION
				
				
					CHICAGO
					A. C. McCLURG & CO.
					1911
				
			

			
			
				COPYRIGHT A. C. McCLURG & CO. 1910 
				
				Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England
				
				Published October 1, 1910 Second Edition, March 25, 1911 
				PRESS OF THE VAIL COMPANY COSHOCTON, U. S. A. 
			

			
				

				 DEDICATED TO THE VICTIMS OF COMMON COLDS, AND TO ALL WHO
					LIVE IN CONSTANT FEAR OF CATCHING COLD 

				
			
			
				
				PREFACE

				OF all the minor maladies from which the civilized races generally
					suffer, common colds are undoubtedly the most widespread and distressing. Colds,
					constipation, and headache constitute a trio of common afflictions which are very largely
					preventable.

				Fully nine-tenths of these distressing minor maladies, together with their attendant
					social inconvenience and pecuniary loss, could be easily prevented.

				Professor Irving Fisher, in his report on "National Vitality" prepared for The National
					Conservation Commission, estimates that the average well man is compelled to lose about
					five days each year as the result of colds, headaches, and other of these minor physical
					disorders.

				The author's lecture, "Catching and Curing a Cold," is given to about one hundred
					thousand people each summer at the leading  Chautauquas,
					and for several years it has been his practice to question these audiences as to the
					number of days lost each year because of colds. While statistics of this sort are not
					absolutely reliable, being largely based upon memory and gathered hurriedly in public;
					nevertheless, as the result of these observations, we are convinced that the average adult
					annually sustains a loss of between two and three working days as the result of "bad
					colds," "colds in the head," or "a slight touch of the grippe."

				Suppose we allow that the adult wage-earner loses on an average but two days annually as
					the result of colds. Let us estimate the daily wage of such men at two dollars. It is
					certain that large numbers of people who are kept from their work by colds sustain a loss
					equal to many times this sum. Now, estimating that we have, say, fifteen millions of
					wage-earners who are thus afflicted each year, it will at once appear that we have a
					direct economic loss of sixty million dollars.

				Further inquiries conducted by the author tend to show that the average individual spends
					from one to two dollars on either patent  medicines, "cold
					cures," or physicians' fees each year in the treatment of this so-called minor affliction.
					Twenty million dollars each year would be a very moderate estimate for what is spent
					directly on the treatment of colds, and this hardly makes allowance for the money spent in
					treating colds in the case of infants, children, and other non-wage-earners, all of whom
					suffer equally from this complaint. Thus, by the most moderate estimates based upon fairly
					reliable data, we have a direct annual loss to the American people of fully eighty million dollars as the result of colds. If the real facts were fully known
					and we were in possession of absolutely reliable statistics, we believe this sum would
					undoubtedly mount up to more than one hundred million dollars. It certainly would if
					influenza and its after disability and treatment were taken into account. But let us be
					moderate in dealing with statistics of this sort, and estimate the annual pecuniary loss
					from colds, direct and indirect, at eighty million dollars.

				But the monetary loss from these minor maladies is indeed a very small part of the  harm they accomplish. Medical men are now awakening to the fact
					that colds in the head, chronic catarrh, the grippe, etc., are proving to be the
					forerunners, in many cases, of more severe maladies, and ofttimes they lay the foundation
					for various deadly diseases, including tuberculosis and pneumonia, together with serious
					disorders of the nervous system, and grave diseases of both the heart and the kidneys.

				Colds are not only responsible for an enormous pecuniary loss, but they must be looked
					upon as undermining and sapping the vitality of the people; as lowering the vital
					resistance of the individual to other and more serious infections.

				Colds are also directly concerned in decreasing the general efficiency of all. who are
					attacked. The estimate of the loss of two or three days each year from colds does not
					include the days of decreasing efficiency which so often precede the actual absence of the
					individual from work, neither does it take into account the days or even weeks of
					decreased efficiency which frequently follow cold-infections,  although the sufferer has returned to work and is vainly endeavoring to perform his
					customary tasks. It is a well-known fact that both mental efficiency and the physical
					capacity for work are greatly lessened in the case of those who are suffering, or recently
					have suffered, from a bad cold.

				Colds result in untold inconvenience, in that they often seriously interfere with the
					fulfilment of business, professional, and social engagements. The catching of a cold is
					liable to interfere with both the small social gathering and the large public meeting. A
					public lecturer is not only prevented from delivering his message as the result of
					catching a cold, but the humble citizen is also prevented from hearing it; for one who is
					suffering from a cold in the head seldom desires to attend either private social functions
					or public lectures. But this indisposition is hardly to be regarded as an unmixed curse.
					Sufferers from a severe cold should go to bed. It is for their good as well as the good of
					the community, that colds should be more or less quarantined, for, in the last analysis,
					most colds are infectious maladies.  The individual
					suffering from a cold is not only a health menace to those with whom he mingles, but he is
					also quite incapacitated for doing himself any special honor in the realms of social
					conquest.

				While this volume is based largely upon the author's Chautauqua lecture, "Catching and
					Curing a Cold," much of the matter found in Chapters IV, V, and VI was originally prepared
					for "The Designer," and our thanks are due the editor for his courteous permission to
					publish this matter in permanent form.

				It is the sincere desire of the author that this little work shall contribute something
					toward a sensible understanding of the cause of colds, aid in their prevention, and
					materially assist in their successful management and treatment in accordance with rational
					rules and scientific principles.

				WILLIAM S. SADLER.
				100 STATE STREET, CHICAGO,
				September 1, 1910.
			

			
				
				CONTENTS
				
					
						CHAPTER
						PAGE
					
					WHAT IS A COMMON COLD?
						17
					THE PREDISPOSING CAUSES
							OF COMMON COLDS
						28
					THE EXCITING CAUSES
							OF COMMON COLDS
						39
					THE PREVENTION OF COLDS
						51
					THE GENERAL TREATMENT
							OF COMMON COLDS
						71
					THE TREATMENT OF THE DIFFERENT STAGES OF A COLD
						84
					ADENOIDS AND THE TONSILS
						106
					INFLUENZA-- LA GRIPPE
						123
					CHRONIC CATARRH AND COUGHS
						138
				

				
			
			
				
				LIST OF FIGURES
				
					PAGE
					FIG. 1 Sectional View of Nose and Throat Frontispiece
					FIG. 2 Group of Germs Causing Colds 24
					FIG. 3 Errors in Clothing which Predispose to Catching Cold 34
					FIG. 4 Taking Sweat Baths in a Portable Cabinet Bath 76
					FIG. 5-7 Illustrations of Nasal Douche and Massage 88
					FIGS. 8-10 Illustrations of Head and Throat Compress 92
					FIG. 11 The Hot Blanket Pack 98
					FIG. 12 Cold Mitten Friction 98
					FIG. 13 Method of Putting on Chest Pack 102
					FIG. 14 A Child with Adenoids 114
					FIG. 15 The Wet Sheet Pack 134
				
			
		

		
			
				

				

				THE CAUSE AND CURE OF COLDS
				
					CHAPTER I WHAT IS A COMMON COLD?

					DEFINITIONS.-- COLDS TO BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY.--
							CLASSIFICATION OF COLDS.--
							COLDS DUE TO SOME SPECIFIC GERM INFECTION.-- COLDS DUE TO A DISTURBANCE OF THE
							CIRCULATION.-- COLDS DUE
							TO DERANGEMENT OF NUTRITION.-- THE COMMON COLD AN INFECTIOUS DISEASE.

					BEFORE we attempt to discuss intelligently the causes, prevention,
						cure, and consequences of the common household cold, it will be necessary to seek for a
						definition of the term, and otherwise discuss its real meaning and significance as
						currently used by the common people.

					
						DEFINITIONS

						Webster defines a cold as follows: "An indisposition occasioned by exposure to cold
							or to  a draught of cool air or to dampness; an acute
							attack of catarrh; as, to have a severe cold."

						Gould's Medical Dictionary gives the following definition of a cold: "A term used
							popularly for coryza and catarrhal conditions of the respiratory tract."

						Dorland's Medical Dictionary defines a cold thus: "A catarrhal or other disorder, due
							to exposure to cold and wet."

						It is little wonder that the common people have perverted notions and distorted ideas
							respecting the nature and cause of colds, when the makers of our dictionaries
							sincerely offer the foregoing definitions as expressing the correct conception of a
							common cold.

						It is apparent from these definitions that the old-time notion that colds owe their
							origin to rainy days, dampness, exposure, cold air, and draughts, has not been
							successfully refuted by the modern germ theory. As will be shown subsequently, these
							conditions of temperature, air, and moisture are but contributing factors in the
							causation of common colds. Further, these climatic influences, which are ordinarily
							regarded as the real cause of a cold, exert but  a
							secondary influence in producing the pathological conditions commonly described under
							the terms coryza, acute catarrh, and common colds.

						Of all the common, minor maladies afflicting the civilized races probably none are
							more troublesome and more completely misunderstood than common colds; while they
							certainly occasion more and greater inconvenience than all the rest of the minor
							maladies put together. By far the majority of our population, young and old, fall
							victims one or more times each year, to a cold of more or less severity; in duration
							lasting anywhere from two or three days to two or three weeks.
					

					
						COLDS TO BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY

						The time has come for intelligent people to take common colds seriously, for when
							they are severe and frequent-- when they manifest a tendency to "hang on"-- they may
							lay the foundation for numerous chronic diseased conditions of both the nose and the
							throat.

						Severe colds, when persistent and neglected, may do much toward predisposing certain
								 weakened and debilitated individuals, who possess a
							low degree of vital resistance, to bronchitis, pneumonia, pleurisy, and even
							tuberculosis (consumption).

						In the use of the term "colds" we usually refer to an acute infection or inflammation
							in the head, particularly affecting the nose, and accompanied in the early stage by
							sneezing, chilliness, shivering, fullness in the head; and later by muscular pains,
							dry skin, constipation, impairment of the senses of taste and smell, varying mucous
							discharge (becoming purulent in two or three days), more or less sore throat,
							sometimes cough, hoarseness, headache, fever, etc. A cold usually runs from seven to
							ten days. The patient is often taken suddenly with sneezing and chilliness, and this
							is soon followed by a state of general feverishness. This same group of symptoms which
							marks the early stages of a cold, also ushers in numerous infectious diseases,
							including diphtheria, typhoid fever, smallpox, scarlet fever, whooping-cough, measles,
							pneumonia, and influenza.

						"Chills and fever" constitute a group of symptoms which mark the beginning or early
								 stages of practically all the common, acute,
							infectious diseases. All children exhibiting symptoms of a "fresh cold" should be
							taken out of school and properly isolated from the family until either time or the
							doctor pronounces them free from some contagious disease.

						One of the questions constantly asked by our patients who are frequent sufferers from
							colds, is: "Doctor, what is the real cause of my bad colds; why do I catch cold so
							often; what makes it hang on so long?"
					

					
						CLASSIFICATION OF COLDS

						A somewhat different answer must be found for this question in the case of almost
							every patient, but observation and study have led the author into the belief that
							there are three great classes of colds. That is, while we are forced to recognize that
							some microbe is at the bottom of practically every cold, nevertheless, the vast
							majority of common colds may be grouped under one of the following heads:

						1. Colds due entirely to some specific germ infection. This group
							of colds includes the wilder forms of influenza or "grippe," a malady  which especially affects the nose, throat, and the
							respiratory passages. There are various colds other than influenza which also belong
							under this head. In fact, practically every cold is a case of the individual's
							succumbing to the attacks of some cold germ, varieties of which are ever present on
							the mucous membranes of the nose and throat.

						It is highly probable that no amount of cold bathing and other commonly advised
							preventives of colds will always serve to prevent one from contracting these
							infectious colds. They strike individuals in the neighborhood with the unconcern and
							impartiality shown by measles, mumps, or smallpox, when these maladies are abroad in
							the community. These infectious colds sometimes become epidemic, and it is quite
							likely that the individual's general physical state has but little to do with their
							contraction.

						2. Colds due primarily to a disturbance of the circulation. This
							group of colds is largely preventable by means of the proper adjustment of the
							clothing, by avoiding draughts when fatigued, by preventing chilling, exposure, cold
							feet, etc. Certain individuals afflicted with an 
							unstable circulation, having a pale skin with slow and sluggish blood movement, with
							habitually cold hands and feet, find themselves very easily and quickly chilled when
							some portion of the body is subjected to slight draughts or when otherwise exposed to
							rapidly cooling influences. Proper methods for overcoming this instability of the
							skin-circulation, will be considered later, under the head of the prevention of colds. 

						3. Colds largely due to deranged nutrition and disordered
								metabolism. Another group of colds, the author believes, is caused, directly or
							indirectly, by certain disorders of digestion and derangement of nutrition. The
							victims of chronic dyspepsia and constipation suffer more or less from acidæmia, a
							bodily state in which an abnormal amount of certain acids are circulating in the
							blood. This acid condition of the blood stream is not only irritating to the mucous
							membrane of the nose, throat, and lungs; but it also cripples the action of the white
							blood cells, whose work of destroying germs is so vitally connected with the
							prevention of colds and the preservation of health. 
							These disorders of digestion and nutrition, which are so closely connected with the
							subject of colds, will also be further considered later.
					

					
						THE COMMON COLD AN INFECTIOUS DISEASE

						A cold, then, may be defined as an acute infectious disease, more or less contagious,
							chiefly and primarily affecting the mucous membrane of the nose and throat. Numerous
							conditions pertaining to the physical health of the individual, as well as the nature
							of his immediate surroundings, are all directly or indirectly concerned in producing a
							favorable soil for the growth, development, and spread of the microbes responsible for
							the cold.

						The sneezing which usually accompanies the "catching of a cold" is a symptom of the
							first stage of the disease,-- it is positive evidence of the cold you already have.
							Both chilling and sneezing are indications that you already have a cold, that the
							infection has taken root; the germs have begun to multiply, the mischief has begun to
							spread.
						And so all the evidence points to the fact 
							
								FIG. 2. Group of Germs causing colds.
							
							
							 that the ordinary household malady described under the
							term of a common cold is an infectious disease, and it should be treated and regulated
							accordingly.

						Further reasons for regarding colds as being caused by certain microbes (see Fig.
								2) which take advantage of the disturbance
							of one's circulation or the derangement of one's nutrition, may be cited as
							follows:

						1. Colds are shown to be contagious, and therefore caused by germs: by the simple
							fact that they are "catching," one can take a cold from another person who has a
							cold.

						2. Severe colds always begin with a sensation of chilliness followed by more or less
							of a fever-- chills and fever. That is the identical manner in which practically every
							infectious disease caused by microbes begins its career.

						3. Like all germ-caused diseases, colds have a tendency to run a more or less
							definite course. They are self-limited; that is, after a certain time, they usually
							begin to recover of themselves. In this way a cold behaves exactly as do measles,
							chicken-pox, scarlet-fever, pneumonia, etc.

						

						4. Like other infectious diseases, colds may be followed by inflammations in various
							internal organs, producing a congestion of the stomach, lungs, liver, spleen, or
							kidneys. These secondary results are due to the irritating effects of the poisons
							(toxins) of the germs circulating in the blood stream of the patient. These symptoms
							of secondary poisoning follow in the wake of colds and influenza, just as they follow
							attacks of diphtheria and scarlet-fever.

						5. Colds are shown to be infectious by the fact that they are usually, sometimes
							highly, contagious: when we have a severe cold we can give it to others, to those
							individuals who are susceptible.

						6. Colds, like other contagious maladies, can be prevented, controlled, and regulated
							by isolation and quarantine; and we should hasten the time when they will be thus
							sensibly regarded and scientifically treated.

						7. Colds are shown to be more or less infectious by the fact that they can generally,
							in their earlier stages, be successfully treated and 
							effectually aborted, by the use of antiseptic nose washes and. germicidal throat
							gargles.

						8. That common colds are of an infectious nature is further suggested by the
							well-known fact that a severe cold seems to confer a short-lived immunity upon its
							victim. That is, a healthy, robust person who is just recovering from a very bad cold
							is not likely to have another such attack for several months, maybe not for a full
							year. Some folks have their regular colds once each winter; then they are seldom
							bothered for another year.
					
				

				
					
					CHAPTER II THE PREDISPOSING CAUSES OF COMMON COLDS

					OVEREATING AND INDIGESTION.- EXCESS OF PROTEIN.--
							DYSPEPSIA AND ACIDÆMIA.--
							CHRONIC CONSTIPATION.--
							OVERCLOTHING OR ERRORS IN CLOTHING.-- INACTIVITY OF THE SKIN.-- THE SEDENTARY LIFE.-- LOWERED VITALITY AND FATIGUE.-- THE MENTAL STATE.-- ALCOHOLIC EXCESSES, ETC.

					COLD-CAUSES may be divided into two classes: the predisposing, that
						is, those conditions of the body indirectly favoring colds; and the exciting, that is,
						the immediate or provoking influence producing the cold.

					The various bodily states and physical habits which favor taking cold are quite
						numerous. The term "colds" is but a reminder that this infection is popularly supposed
						to be caused by the influence of cold air, exposure, or low temperature. At the very
						outset we endeavored  to dispel this delusion. High
						temperatures, as a rule, have more to do with colds than low temperatures; in fact, it
						would be decidedly more proper to speak of "catching "heat" than of "catching cold." The
						predisposing causes of colds may be enumerated as follows:

					1. Overeating and indigestion. The practice of habitually taking into
						the stomach more food than is required to nourish and sustain the body results in
						overworking the digestive organs, clogging the system, and greatly over-taxing the
						organs engaged in the elimination of body-poisons and waste matters-- the skin, kidneys,
						etc. When in such a state as this, the body is ill prepared to fight hostile microbes
						and resist infectious colds. The first great cause of colds is overeating combined with
						underworking.

					The author has seen many sufferers from chronic colds greatly helped or permanently red
						by improving digestion and cutting down their daily ration, thus effectually preventing
						intestinal fermentation and putrefaction, with e consequent absorption of poisons and
						toxins  through the bowel tract into the blood stream.

					The observing physician is forced to recognize that there exists more than an
						accidental relationship between habitual gluttony and frequently recurrent colds. The
						dyspeptic is doubly predisposed to take cold from the slightest exposure or from the
						least disturbance of the circulation.

					2. Excess of protein. Occasionally, we find an individual who is
						predisposed to catarrh and colds, because he is anaemic and under-nourished; either
						because he eats too little, or he does not assimilate his food, or his food is not
						nutritious and abundant. On the other hand, a large percentage of the sufferers from
						chronic and repeated colds are found among the high protein consumers, the heavy
						meat-eaters.

					As a nation, we are large meat-eaters, daily consuming from two to three times the
						amount of protein required to maintain the body in a state of perfect health. This fact
						has been shown clearly by the reliable experiments of Professor Chittenden, of Yale, as
						well as by  the observations and experiments of numerous
						other investigators along the lines of dietetics and nutrition.


					It is not alone the author's experience, but also that of many of his patients, that a
						reduction in the protein food element has been followed speedily by a reduction in
						colds, both in frequency and severity. This will be considered more fully under the head
						of the prevention of colds.

					3. Dyspepsia and acidœmia. It is commonly observed that severe and
						acute colds frequently follow attacks of acute indigestion. Chronic dyspepsia and
						chronic colds go hand in hand. As previously noted, the acid state of the blood which
						accompanies indigestion and dyspepsia, predisposes to all infections and various
						inflammations, while at the same time greatly crippling the body in its efforts to fight
						germs and withstand infection. The liberal use of the strong condiments undoubtedly
						irritates the nose and throat and thus favors congestion and colds.

					All victims of dyspepsia suffer more or less from poor circulation, together with
						disturbances  of the nervous system and derangements of the
						heat-regulating mechanism of the body. These abnormalities in the working of important
						physical functions greatly predispose the dyspeptic to catching cold upon the slightest
						provocation.

					4. Chronic constipation. Either all alone or accompanying the
						foregoing conditions, constipation is certainly, in some measure, responsible for the
						annoying habit of catching cold so troublesome to some people. It is a common bit of
						history to elicit from patients who are coming down with the grippe or a severe cold,
						that their bowels usually move quite regularly, but that for the past week they had been
						some-what constipated. Sluggishness of the bowel, in the majority of cases, precedes the
						taking of cold.

					Even in the case of infants and young children, a period of more or less constipation
						is almost certain to be followed by a bad cold. The absorption of intestinal toxins
						seems to be very closely related to the tendency to take cold in many individuals, and
						this constitutes  the great reason for the early use of
						cathartics when one is "coming down with a cold."

					5. Errors in clothing. Another of the predisposing causes of colds is
						the wearing of too much clothing. (See Fig. 3.)
						Many of the victims of recurring colds wear so much heavy woollen underclothing that
						they continually are perspiring, and thus they expose themselves to additional dangers
						of chilling and taking cold.

					The opposite extreme-- the wearing of too little clothing and the consequent exposure
						and chilling which would inevitably follow-- must result in greatly predisposing
						ill-nourished and otherwise susceptible persons to catching frequent and severe colds.
						(See Fig. 3.)

					The habit of wearing thick furs over some portions of the body, as about the neck,
						should be avoided, except in the severest of cold weather. Tight collars and tight neck
						bands favor congestion and sore throat. So-called "chest protectors" are a snare and a
						delusion. These devices invariably render their wearers more liable to contract colds.
						Especially is it  unhealthy to wear heavy woollen
						undergarments and street clothes when employed indoors the greater part of the day.
						Rubbers, mackintosh coats, and other sweat-retaining garments, all debilitate the skin
						and favor taking cold.

					6. Inactivity of the skin. This is undoubtedly one of the greatest
						predisposing causes of colds. The physicians of the next generation will pay more
						attention to the hygiene of the skin than we do at present. The skin is an organ of
						great importance when studied from the standpoint of colds. The average individual has
						about seventeen square feet of skin whose countless thousands of eliminating ducts
						represent an area of almost eleven thousand square feet, while these eliminating tubes
						if placed end to end would make a single sewer about ten miles long.

					When the skin is dry, rough, leathery, cold, and bloodless, it indicates that the
						internal organs and mucous membranes are more or less congested, and internal congestion
						is just the condition that favors taking cold.

					In this way congestion of the lungs favors bronchitis and pneumonia. Chilling of the
							
						
							FIG.3. Errors in Clothing which Predispose to catching cold.
						
						
						 skin and unbalancing of the general circulation results in
						producing conditions in the nose and throat in every way favorable to the growth and
						activity of the various germs which are ever found there, and which, when suitably
						aroused, are capable of rapid development and untold mischief.

					7. The sedentary life. There can be little doubt that the indoor life
						predisposes to colds. Sedentary workers are subjected, as a rule, to an overheated
						atmosphere during the winter. They are usually compelled to breathe foul air, which
						irritates the nose and throat and favors infection and subsequent inflammation of the
						mucous membranes.

					Again, lack of physical exercise results in the sluggish circulation of the blood
						through both muscles and skin, and this all favors the taking of cold, when persons in
						such circumstances are momentarily exposed to draughts or other chilling influences.
						Likewise, the inhalation of smoke and other irritating gases from locomotives or
						manufacturing plants tends to irritate the nose and throat, and predisposes to
						colds.

					

					Any person who has a normal, healthy circulation, especially one who habitually lives
						out of doors, can successfully withstand almost any and every degree of exposure to the
						various common cold-causes.

					8. Lowered vitality and fatigue. All persons suffering from lingering
						and wasting diseases, together with those having lowered vitality from whatever cause,
						are predisposed to recurrent colds. One is also more likely to catch cold when fatigued,
						as in the evening after a day's hard work, or after having undergone some severe
						physical or nervous strain.

					Any scheme for preventing colds which does not aim at the development of the power of
						vital resistance-- at increasing one's powers of reaction to infection-- is doomed to
						certain failure. Any and all influences which in any manner lower the vital resistance,
						greatly increase the likelihood of taking cold.

					By far the majority of common colds are contracted at night, when the body is wearied
						and the vital resistance is greatly lowered. Chronic nasal catarrh-- itself often a
						result of lowered vitality-- is also a cause of many  acute
						colds. In fact, many persons have a smouldering cold in the form of chronic catarrh
						lingering in the nose all the time.

					9. The mental state. There can be little question, from our knowledge
						of the influence of the mind on the circulation of the blood,-- especially blood
						movement through the skin,-- that a person's mental state may often act as a
						predisposing cause of colds.

					Victims of fear, grief, and chronic worry, usually have pale skins; and in this way, by
						its influence upon the skin-circulation, the mind itself may contribute to that
						disturbance of the circulation which so predisposes to the catching of colds. The fear
						of night air has acquired the dignity of a popular superstition, and is erroneously
						supposed to favor taking cold. Night air is colder than day air, more chilling; and only
						because of this fact, can night air ever be truthfully charged with causing colds.
						Proper and sufficient clothing will effectually rob night air of all its
						cold-terrors.

					The despondent man or woman is undoubtedly predisposed to contract any contagion to  which he or she may be exposed. The discouraged and
						disheartened are the first to succumb to exposure and infection. There can be little
						doubt that the pessimist-- other things being equal-- manifests a greater tendency to
						take cold than does the optimist.

					10. Alcoholic excesses, tobacco-smoking, and various other physical
						habits which may interfere with the individual's health by decreasing the vital
						resistance, or acidifying the blood, all favor the development of that bodily state
						which predisposes to catching cold.

					It is a fact not generally understood that the constant use of the various narcotics
						tends to decrease the alkalinity of the blood. When the alkalinity of the blood is
						decreased, the vital resistance is proportionately lowered; and when the vital
						resistance is decreased, the individual's susceptibility to all acute infections--
						including common colds-- is increased greatly, The commonly used narcotics, which exert
						a tendency toward diminishing the alkalinity of the blood, are alcohol, tobacco, tea,
						and coffee, as well as numerous patent medicines, headache powders, etc.
				

				
					

					CHAPTER III THE EXCITING CAUSES OF COMMON COLDS

					 SKIN CHILLING AND DRAUGHTS.-- DAMP OR COLD FEET.--
							SUPERHEATED ATMOSPHERE.--
							UNVENTILATED SLEEPING CHAMBERS.-- IMPROPER CLOTHING.-- THE INFLUENZA BACILLUS AND OTHER
							GERMS.

					HAVING quite fully discussed the various predisposing causes of
						colds, we may now briefly consider the exciting or immediate causes. They may be
						considered under the following heads:

					1. Skin-chilling or draughts. The ordinary healthy individual with a
						vigorous, active skin, good digestion, and nervous strength, is able indefinitely to
						withstand any ordinary draught. People with good blood and healthy blood-vessels will
						not catch cold because the wind blows momentarily on the back of their necks or on any
						other part of their body.

					Those who catch cold from slight draughts  are in a
						precarious condition. Instability of the circulation, and a state of lowered vital
						resistance, make them an easy prey to any and every disease germ that may happen along.
						Victims of the draught bugaboo should begin at once a course of skin-gymnastics, by
						means of exercise and baths, which will be later suggested, and as soon as possible
						improve their skin-reaction to that point where they will be able to withstand all
						ordinary draughts.

					Nevertheless, while we recommend these skin-gymnastics for persons with poor
						circulation and lowered vitality, we would not advise anyone to engage in foolhardy
						efforts to harden themselves or otherwise to expose themselves unduly to chilling
						influences. It requires time to make these circulatory changes.

					The author at present is wearing thin cotton or linen-mesh underwear throughout the
						winter. Years ago he wore the heaviest woollen underwear. Several years were consumed in
						making this change. We have known many cases of fatal pneumonia to result  from enthusiastic efforts to harden oneself quickly to the
						influence of cold weather.

					It is time that the draught delusion should be driven from our midst.
						Healthy people have nothing to fear from draughts. Weak and debilitated individuals who
						suffer from them should avail themselves of such assistance as will enable them to
						acquire sound digestion, active bowels, and healthy skins. And just in proportion ,as
						one improves the general health and promotes the circulation of the blood, the tendency
						to catch cold will certainly disappear, provided there exists no local source of
						irritation in the nose or throat.

					2. Damp or cold feet. Wet feet is one of the great exciting causes of
						colds. Especially is this true in the case of young women. The nerves on the soles of
						the feet are reflexly connected with certain internal organs, among which are the mucous
						membrane of the nose, throat, and lungs.

					Chilling the feet results in congesting the internal organs, while keeping the feet
						warm and full of blood, as will be seen later, is a great 
						aid in preventing and successfully treating colds. Of all parts of the body which should
						be kept warm continuously, the feet are the most important. That which is most dangerous
						is a combination of cold and moisture.

					We have not yet improved on the advice of the old . French doctor who exhorted us:
						"Keep the feet warm, the head cool, and the bowels open."

					We greatly deprecate the recent tendency to make light of wet feet,
							chilling draughts, etc., as factors in the causation of colds. Some, in their
						efforts to call attention to the important fact that colds are caused by germs, in their
						worthy enthusiasm to expose the "draught fetich," in their endeavors to lead people to
						quit coddling themselves, and in their laudable efforts to dispel the erroneous notions
						and harmful superstitions of the past, have gone too far; they have gone so far as to
						assert that wet feet and other exposure have nothing to do with catching cold. They
						teach that draughts should be utterly ignored-- and so they should; but this cannot
						safely be done before the body is prepared for the change. A  change in circulation is necessary before the pale-skinned and chilly victims of the
						"draught bugaboo" can defy successfully its dangers and delusions.

					In the good work of proclaiming the more recently discovered microbic cause of colds,
						it is entirely unnecessary to ridicule or ignore the well-known fact that wet feet,
						exposure, etc., do act as predisposing causes and contributing factors in producing
						colds. The microbe is indeed the seed of the infection; but it requires soil as well as
						seed to produce a cold, and these various disturbances of circulation and metabolism are
						just the influences which work together for the production of suitable and favorable
						soil on which the ever-present cold-microbe begins its growth and its preparation for
						subsequent attacks upon the human body.

					3. Superheated atmosphere. As a rule, it is not quickly going out
						into the cold air that causes one to take cold; it is rather the over-heated indoor
						atmosphere with its poisonous gases that has so weakened both the skin, and thee air
						passages, that they are unable to  produce a healthy
						reaction when suddenly exposed to cold-- as in going from an overheated room immediately
						out of doors.

					The temperature of living-rooms during the winter should range from 65 to 68 degrees F.
						If some of the members of the family are chilly at this temperature, let them put on
						wraps for a few days until they become used to it.

					Recent experimental observations made in France, prove that the temperature of
						living-rooms is directly concerned in the question of atmospheric purity. Certain
						poisonous gases found in expired air are probably condensed and fall to the floor when
						the temperature is below 65 to 68 degrees F., whereas a higher temperature permits these
						subtle gases to remain in their vapory state, in which condition they are able to enter
						the lungs; and so they add greatly to the poisonous and deleterious influence of the
						atmosphere of all living-apartments which are not perfectly and ideally ventilated.

					This newly discovered fact concerning the behavior of the poisonous gases of animal  respiration, goes a long way toward explaining the curious
						phenomena of the Icelanders and the Esquimaux sealing themselves up in their apparently
						air-tight ice houses for comparatively long periods, without experiencing the least
						discoverable ill effects from having to breathe and re-breathe the same old air. The
						temperature was so low that the watery vapors containing the greater part of the
						poisonous gases of respiration were immediately condensed, and their poisons were thus
						precipitated to the floor.

					To live in such an air-tight apartment in a tropical clime, or even with the
						temperature above 70 degrees F., would soon prove fatal; and these recent experiments
						serve to explain these interesting, and until now puzzling, observations.

					Again, when the room temperature is raised much above 70 degrees, an unconscious
						perspiration appears on the skin, the evaporation of which has a tendency to chill the
						body. This chilly sensation persists until the temperature of the room reaches the
						neighborhood of 80 degrees; but if the temperature be 
						maintained uniformly below 70 degrees, this unconscious perspiration is prevented and
						these consequent chilly sensations are entirely avoided.

					4. Unventilated sleeping chambers. We are constantly meeting cases of
						recurrent colds and chronic catarrh which must in some measure be chargeable to the
						polluted air of the sleeping-room. One should accustom himself to having all the bedroom
						windows wide open summer and winter. There is no reason for closing the bedroom windows
						of healthy persons, except in very stormy or blustery weather; certainly not to exclude
						the cold air. Thousands of people who are suffering from a succession of colds
						throughout the winter would be largely relieved of this unfortunate state of affairs, by
						throwing wide open the windows of the sleeping-room. Air poisoned by tobacco smoke and
						other noxious and irritating gases directly predisposes to colds and sore throats.

					5. Improper clothing. The constant presence of a cold in the head is
						often due to the  atrocious manner in which some people
						dress during the winter. It is little wonder that they contract frequent colds. Women
						attend fashionable functions at night with the entire upper extremities scantily clad.
						Little girls run about on cold autumn days with low socks and bare legs. Young women go
						out-doors with the lower extremities underclad. Undergarments are overlapping about the
						abdomen, as are also the outer garments, where they are but little needed, in fact,
						where they may do positive harm; while the extremities, arms, ankles, and legs are
						underclothed and exposed to the chilling, wintry blasts. Clothing should be equalized,
						and all parts of the body kept moderately warm. The union suit is to be preferred over
						the old-fashioned shirt and drawers. All kinds of waterproof clothing are
						unhealthful.

					The wearing of heavy woollen undergarments, especially by sedentary people and those
						who work indoors, is sure to predispose to catching cold; for such practices debilitate
						the in and greatly decrease its powers of  reaction to
						draughts and other sudden changes in the state of the atmosphere, especially in its
						temperature.

					It is equally important to emphasize the fact that colds are favored by all attempts on
						the part of thin, emaciated, and chilly people to go to the other extreme in their too
						hasty efforts to harden themselves. Colds and pneumonia may result from wearing too
						little clothing, as well as from wearing too much. In all these matters, let us use
						exalted common sense!

					6. The influenza bacillus and other germs. After all that may be said
						respecting the predisposing and exciting causes of colds, it must be recognized that microbes are usually the real exciting cause. (See Fig. 2.) There are several tribes of germs concerned in
						the work of producing colds. The germ most to be dreaded, of course, is the influenza
						bacillus, which sometimes sweeps over the land as an epidemic wave. This germ not only
						produces local inflammation in the head or lungs, but floods the body with poisons which
						profoundly affect the heart and the nervous system.

					

					The lumbermen who work out of doors in the northern woods are seldom bothered with our
						common colds, unless some visitor with a cold chances to stray into the camp. Some colds
						of the influenzoid type are so virulent that they attack the average man on sight; they
						do not wait for the production of a favorable soil as a result of exposure. On the other
						hand, these out-door laborers of the northern forests not infrequently subject
						themselves to extraordinary and unusual exposure, and never suffer in the slightest
						degree from colds. Such exposure would be promptly followed by a bad cold in the head if
						the cold-germ were present. And so our study of colds goes more and more to show that
						two factors are concerned in the production of all ordinary colds: the seed, or the
						microbes; and the soil, or the state of the health, resulting from the predisposing
						influences to which the individual has been subjected.

					Handkerchiefs which have been used by persons suffering from colds and influenza are
						especially dangerous and should not carelessly be thrown about the house. The practice
							 of using an ordinary handkerchief for giving the
						"Chautauqua salute" should be discarded. Let such salutations be given with clean
						handkerchiefs.

					And so, while we recognize certain microbes as the real exciting cause of practically
						all our colds, we must not overlook the fact that a group of predisposing and exciting
						causes almost invariably operate together to produce a favorable soil upon which these
						microbes may flourish., Certain abnormalities or diseased states of the nose and throat
						may furnish these microbes with. favorable soil.

					While we must regard certain germs as the seed of the cold, we are compelled to look
						upon the various causes before enumerated, as constituting the soil; and, as in the case
						of all germ diseases, it is necessary not only that the seed should be present, but also
						that there be a favorable soil. And this explains exactly why the same germs produce
						colds or influenza in one individual and not in another. In one case, the soil is
						favorable, in the other it is unfavorable. One individual is promptly smitten; the other
						wholly escapes.
				

				
					
					CHAPTER IV THE PREVENTION OF COLDS

					 THE CARE OF THE NOSE.--
							THE MOUTH AND THROAT.--
							VENTILATION AND THE STATE OF THE ATMOSPHERE.-- THE PROPHYLACTIC THROAT GARGLE.-- THE DAILY COLD BATH.-- BALANCING THE
							CIRCULATION.-- DAILY
							PHYSICAL EXERCISE.-- HYGIENE OF THE BOWELS.-- THE QUESTION OF DIET.-- FAITH, COURAGE, AND OPTIMISM.

					PERSONS of sound constitution-- those who are really well-- seldom
						take cold unless they expose themselves in an unusual manner or fall victims to certain
						epidemic infections, such as those of the so-called influenzoid colds. In this
						connection it is well to remind the reader that but few people among the civilized races
						enjoy perfect physical health; and, therefore, all of us are more or less subject, from
						time to time, to colds of varying severity.

					The great difficulty about teaching people  how to avoid
						colds is the fact that the very things which really prevent colds, are popularly
						supposed to cause colds: fresh air, cold air, cold baths, and outdoor exercise-- the
						best known means of preventing colds-- are all generally regarded as causing colds.

					In the preceding chapters we considered the causes of colds, both remote and immediate;
						and it will now be in order to discuss the prevention of colds.

					1. The care of the nose. Thousands of people are victims of chronic
						or recurring colds because the nose is diseased. It may have a crooked septum, so that
						one nostril is almost obliterated. The turbinate bones may be enlarged, or polypi may be
						growing in the nostrils. Individuals suffering from any one or a number of these
						abnormal conditions are doomed to suffer from frequent colds, if they are not already
						victims of an annoying chronic nasal catarrh. (See Fig. 1.)

					There is little hope of securing relief from colds or hay-fever by practising the
						constitutional regime later suggested, when the nose and throat are more or less
						diseased.  Competent physicians should be consulted and
						these conditions remedied as the first step in the battle for the prevention of
						colds.

					Colds commonly begin in the nose. In the case of mouth-breathers, or those who suffer
						from a more or less chronic tonsilitis, colds frequently begin in the throat. Any
						abnormal or diseased conditions in the nose, especially in the case of young people and
						certain weakly and debilitated persons, are sure to prove a constant source of colds in
						the head, or sore-throat.

					2. The mouth and throat. All persons with a weakened constitution,
						all who are predisposed to catching cold, should exercise special care to keep the mouth
						clean and free from bacteria. Such persons should faithfully use an antiseptic mouth
						wash morning and evening. Cinnamon water, such as any druggist will be able to supply,
						will serve as an efficient mouth wash. The teeth should also be regularly cleansed by
						brushing thoroughly after each meal.

					Many are troubled with chronic colds and catarrh, because they have adenoids growing in the roof of the throat. This is particularly  true of children. These soft and abnormal growths are
						constantly dropping their secretions down into the throat, producing almost incessant
						hawking and spitting on the part of their victims. Adenoids, whether found in children
						or adults, must be removed before we can hope to overcome the tendency to sore-throat
						and frequent colds. Many cases of so-called catarrh are due wholly to the presence of
						adenoids. But more about these troublesome growths later. (See Fig. 1.)

					The throat must next receive attention. If there is chronic pharyngitis (sore-throat),
						it should be treated before the approach of cold weather. If the tonsils are diseased,
						they should be treated and, if possible, restored to a healthy state. If the patient has
						suffered from repeated and severe attacks of tonsilitis; if the tonsils are so diseased
						that they are useless to the body, they should be promptly removed. Such incurable
						tonsils serve as a cause of constant colds, sore-throat, and tonsilitis; and they no
						doubt also serve as an avenue of entrance to the body for certain infectious microbes
						which are probably concerned in the  production of
						rheumatism. It is a fact now generally accepted by the medical profession that certain
						forms of rheumatism may be derived from diseased tonsils. Merely clipping off a portion
						of the tonsil in such cases will not suffice, the whole tonsil should be removed. Having
						got the nose and throat in a healthy and normal state, the patient has taken the first
						step in the successful warfare against chronic colds.

					3. Ventilation and the state of the atmosphere. If you would avoid
						colds, breathe fresh air; ventilate the work-rooms, the living-rooms, and the
						sleeping-rooms. Dryness of the air tempts to over-heating of the living-rooms, for dry
						air increases the evaporation of perspiration from the skin, thereby increasing the
						sensation of chilliness. Dry air at 75 degrees will feel about as chilly as moist air at
						65 degrees. Stoves, coils, and furnaces should always have open vessels of water exposed
						to evaporation for the purpose of properly moistening the air. This moistening of the
						air will prove a saving of both coal bills and doctors' bills.

					

					In the effort to prevent colds, carefully avoid public buildings, theatres, and
						churches, which are not properly ventilated. The "air of aristocracy" in the palace, and
						the "odor of sanctity" in the church, are both due to polluted atmosphere-- lack of
						adequate ventilation; and they testify to the likely presence of a prolific crop of cold
						and other disease germs.

					All churches, theatres, and schools ought to be regularly fumigated with formalin from
						once in two weeks to once in two months, according to length of occupancy and degree of
						ventilation.

					4. The prophylactic throat gargle. Dryness of the nose or throat
						often constitutes the first warning of an approaching cold. The secretions of the nose
						and throat are naturally germicidal and tend to destroy and wash out all mischievous
						germs and their toxins. But when, from any cause, the natural secretions of nose and
						throat are altered or suppressed, the various germs capable of setting up irritation,
						and which constantly find access to nose and throat through the air we breathe, are able
						to find lodgment on the dry mucous  membranes and begin
						their pernicious activities.

					At the very first notice of dryness in nose or throat, the patient should snuff up the
						nose some warm antiseptic solution and freely gargle with the same. In many cases a warm
						salt solution will be sufficient to relieve the dryness and abort the infection.
						Lukewarm water having a teaspoonful of salt to the pint will serve very well. Another
						good solution for this purpose, recognized by the U. S. Pharmacopceia, and which can be
						supplied by any druggist, is Dobell's Solution. 
							DOBELL'S SOLUTION
							Sodium borate 1 drachm
							Sodium bicarbonate 1 drachm
							Phenol (carbolic acid) 30 grains
							Glycerine 1 ounce
							Distilled water 2 pints
						 Mix and label: Use as mouth wash, nasal douche, and throat gargle.

					5. The daily cold bath. Of all practices calculated to prevent colds,
						daily cold bathing is undoubtedly the best. Subjecting the skin to repeated applications
						of cold water  constitutes a course of vascular gymnastics and greatly promotes the circulation of the blood through
						the skin. In this way the skin is prepared to withstand sudden draughts and other
						chilling influences resulting from unavoidable exposure to cold.

					It is best to take these cold baths immediately upon rising, by means of the wet hand
						or a wet towel. While it is more healthful to sleep in a cold bedroom, it is desirable
						that these cold baths should be taken in a warm room. The ideal plan would be, while
						sleeping in a cold, well-ventilated bed-chamber, to have the bathroom warm, and
						immediately on arising, repair to the warm bathroom for taking the cold bath.

					Vigorous persons, especially those who are accustomed to cold baths, will enjoy and be
						greatly benefited by a cold plunge in the bath-tub filled with water; and for those who
						desire to carry this skin training to its full limit, we would recommend salt glows. This procedure consists in taking about a pint of coarse barrel
						salt, moistening it with cold water and thoroughly rubbing this wet salt on the skin  until a red glow is obtained, after which, the patient may
						take a cold pour, plunge bath, or shower. These salt rubs are the most powerful means of
						exciting the skin circulation which can be used.

					There is a certain class of people who take cold baths in the morning and enjoy them,
						but who have headaches in the afternoon as a result, or else they feel sleepy and
						experience chilly sensations playing up and down the spine. Those who are thus affected
						by the cold bath, are usually more or less emaciated, nervous, dyspeptic, constipated,
						etc. They need the reaction resulting from a cold bath, but they are unable to supply
						the necessary nervous energy and animal heat to produce this reaction. Such persons
						should not abandon the cold bath as a part of their war against recurrent colds, but
						should precede it with a short hot bath. Take a very hot bath for two or three minutes,
						following this with a cold plunge, shower, pour, or sponge bath. This preliminary hot
						bath will greatly increase the power for good of any succeeding cold bath; nd in nearly
						every case, it will do away with  all the unpleasant
						results following the cold bath when it was taken alone. Physical exercise, such as a
						brisk walk in the open air, also greatly aids in producing a normal and beneficial
						reaction following cold baths.

					6. Balancing the circulation. All victims of chronic colds should see
						to it that the skin is kept warm both day and night. The ankles and feet should be
						properly clothed. Under no circumstances should the extremities be allowed to go cold.
						Until the circulation can be improved,, cold feet should be treated by means of the
						alternating hot and cold foot bath. Get two basins of water, one as hot as can be borne
						by the feet, the other as cold as you can get. Put the feet first in the hot water, then
						in the cold, leaving them about two minutes in the hot and about thirty seconds in the
						cold. Make the change fifteen or twenty times and .then after leaving them for one or
						two minutes in the cold water, thoroughly rub and dry them. By persistent use of these
						alternate hot and cold foot baths, many cases of habitually cold feet can be permanently
						cured.

					

					The ideal circulatory state is promoted by keeping the head cool and the feet warm. The
						lower extremities should be properly clothed. Many young women are suffering from
						chronic catarrh because of the unhealthful manner in which the lower extremities are
						clothed. Equalization of the general circulation is an important item in the battle
						against common colds.

					7. Daily physical exercise. Daily exercise in the open air is a part
						of the price which must be paid for a constitution strong enough to exist above the chronic cold line. Nothing else will take the place of exercise in the
						fight against colds. Muscular exercise not only improves the circulation, it also aids
						the digestion. Just as the sedentary life must be reckoned as one of the causes of
						colds, physical exercise, sunshine, and pure air, play an important role in their
						prevention and treatment. Physical exercise promotes the activity of the sweat glands
						and very generally aids the process of eliminating numerous poisons by thus encouraging
						the natural functions of the skin.

					No exercise can be superior to brisk walking  in the open
						air, with the head erect, chest forward, abdomen tense, arms swinging-- in fact, every
						muscle in the whole body thoroughly energized. All forms of outdoor exercise will be
						found beneficial, whether it be horseback riding, useful employment, tennis, or skating,
						provided such exercises are not carried to injurious extremes.

					8. Hygiene of the bowels. It seems highly probable that in chronic
						constipation certain poisons are absorbed from the bowel tract, and circulate through
						the body, irritating the mucous membranes of the nose, throat, and lungs, and
						predisposing the victim to colds, catarrh, sore-throat, bronchitis, and even asthma.

					It has long been known that clergyman's sore-throat was largely caused by sour stomach
						and indigestion. It would seem that these bowel poisons further favor the taking of
						colds, by their irritating effect upon the small blood-vessels of the skin, causing them
						spasmodically to contract, driving the blood from the surface of the body into the
						internal organs, thus causing the skin to be especially subject to  the action of draughts and other chilling influences.

					The victims of chronic colds, in the vast majority of cases, are found to be suffering
						from pale skin. They are usually anaemic in appearance. Their pale
						skins and their colds are due to one and the same cause, that is, autointoxication or
						chronic self-poisoning, resulting from indigestion or constipation.

					The hygiene of the bowel plays an important role in the prevention and treatment of
						acute colds and chronic catarrh. The author has seen numerous cases of catarrh,
						bronchitis, and even asthma, which had resisted every other effort at treatment,
						gradually disappear after indigestion and constipation had been either improved or
						removed. Every effort should be made to regulate the bowels without the use of drugs.
						The liberal and persistent use of fresh fruits and certain of the dried fruits, such as
						figs and prunes, together with green vegetables, will usually be found effective in
						overcoming ordinary cases of constipation.

					9. The question of diet. A certain class of  sufferers from chronic colds, after having taken all the precautions here
						enumerated, will still find themselves unable successfully to resist colds. The author
						was subject to severe and frequent colds when younger, and suffered greatly from nasal
						catarrh when a youth. He was unable to obtain relief from this annoying affliction,
						although he faithfully practised many of the procedures herein described and
						recommended.

					There came a time, however, in the pursuance of certain dietetic investigations when he
						decided to subsist upon the modern low-protein diet, that is, a diet
						that largely excludes meats, cheese, and beans. This was many years ago, long before the
						renowned work of Professor Chittenden of Yale University, who recently called attention
						to the fact that the American people commonly consume from two to three times the amount
						of protein required to keep the body in good health and good repair.

					After subsisting for several months upon this low-protein diet, in connection with more
						thorough mastication of the food, it was discovered that he suffered much less from
						colds than  formerly. Not only was there a great
						improvement in general health, and an increased ability to endure both mental and
						physical strain, but also the former tendency to take cold on the slightest provocation
						had almost disappeared. In connection with other simple measures, the low-protein diet
						was continued, and a period of seven years was passed without contracting more than a
						single cold, to say nothing of freedom from former experiences of having the grippe once
						or twice each winter.

					It is needless to say that this personal experience has been confirmed in the case of
						scores of patients. In fact, the low-protein diet with proper attention to the hygiene
						of the bowel, constitutes a part of his regular regime in the treatment of recurrent
						colds and chronic nasal catarrh.

					In this connection it may be well to remind the reader that when protein is eaten in
						excess, the unused portion cannot be stored in the body, nor can it be promptly and
						harmlessly eliminated as in the case of excess of starch, sugar, and fat. The end
						products of the digestion and splitting up of protein are acid  in nature and it seems highly probable that they are indirectly concerned in
						producing a bodily state which greatly favors the taking of cold.

					Conditions of the blood bordering on acidaemia, that is, the presence of certain
						acid-like products of indigestion and metabolism in the blood, seem to predispose many
						individuals to taking cold; at least there are vast numbers of people who do not seem to
						be able to rise above the zone of chronic colds, until their system is rid of these
						irritating poisons.

					It should be remembered that while deficient elimination of the natural wastes of the
						body tends to increase these acid poisons in the circulation, the larger portion of such
						irritating substances is derived from the excess of protein taken into the body with the
						daily food. It would,, therefore, be advisable for sufferers from chronic colds to eat
						less meat and take more of the fresh fruits, cereals, vegetables, etc. Tea and coffee
						might also profitably be restricted.

					The following table includes the majority of the high-protein foods, at least those in
						which  the proportion of protein is unduly high as compared
						with the various other food elements. The percentage of protein is given, also the total
						nutritive value. The foods richest in protein are named first, that is, those containing
						the highest percentage of protein. It is not advisable that the total amount of protein
						eaten should constitute more than ten per cent of the total nutritive value of the food
						consumed.

					
						Table of Foods High in Protein 1

						
							NAME OF FOOD
							PERCENTAGE OF PROTEIN
							TOTAL NUTRITIVE VALUE
						

						
							Pinenuts
							30.0
							94.3
						

						
							Beans, dried
							26.9
							85.0
						

						
							Lentils, dried
							25.9
							88.0
						

						
							Cheese
							25.2
							61.1
						

						
							Ham
							25.0
							71.5
						

						
							Turkey
							27.7
							34.4
						

						
							Peas, dried
							24.6
							89.7
						

						
							Roast beef
							22.9
							29.1
						

						
							Salmon
							21.6
							35.6
						

						
							Almonds
							21.1
							91.2
						

						
							Peanuts
							20.7
							91.5
						
					
					
						1 For complete food tables and full
						consideration of the protein factor in diet, the reader is referred to "The Science of
						Living," from which this table is abstracted.

					

					
						
							NAME OF FOOD
							PERCENTAGE OF PROTEIN
							TOTAL NUTRITIVE VALUE
						

						
							Butternuts
							20.0
							91.9
						
						
							Beefsteak
							20.0
							24.0
						
						
							Veal
							19.0
							23.0
						
						
							Chicken
							18.5
							27.5
						
						
							White fish
							18.1
							22.0
						
						
							Mutton
							17.1
							23.4
						
						
							Walnuts
							16.7
							91.6
						
						
							Pork chops
							16.0
							23.5
						
						
							Filberts (Hazel nuts)
							15.6
							90.5
						
						
							Hickory nuts
							15.5
							90.5
						
						
							Eggs
							14.0
							27.2
						
						
							Oysters
							6.0
							11.7
						
					

					Certain strong individuals with a vigorous circulation, are able to ignore with
						impunity practically all these suggestions, and yet live comparatively free from colds.
						They can do this for the same reason that others can drink immoderately, smoke, or
						indulge in other violations of natural laws, suffering no apparent serious consequences.
						But we are interested in helping that vast army of men and women who are trying to live
						above these health-destroying habits; who are struggling to gain the highlands of
						health, and who are fighting  to escape from the bondage of
						chronic disease. In their battle for health they need every possible assistance to
						enable them to maintain a mental and physical attitude that will place them on vantage
						ground in their incessant struggle with the germs of colds and other infections.

					10. Faith, courage, and optimism. The mental attitude, because of its
						influence on digestion and the circulation, is greatly concerned in the cause and
						prevention of colds. Men of courage and women of faith are not, other things being
						equal, so predisposed to colds and other infectious ailments as are the downcast and
						despondent victims of fear and grief. Optimism is of real value in the battle against
						chronic colds.

					The successful man, the one who lives the triumphant life, the man of victory, as a
						rule, is comparatively free from colds and numerous other little annoyances which so
						frequently attack the downhearted and downcast. Nevertheless, when all is said and done,
						that person is a rare curiosity who can for many years escape falling a victim to some
						cold of more or less severity. But it does lie within our 
						power to prevent very largely the constantly recurring colds which so surely undermine
						our vitality, destroy our happiness, and in general, make our lives miserable and
						unprofitable. Having done your full duty to prevent and avoid colds, exercise faith, be
						optimistic, hope for the best, and success will be yours. 
				

				
					
					CHAPTER V THE GENERAL TREATMENT OF COMMON COLDS

					PROMPTLY EMPTY THE BOWELS.-- BRING THE BLOOD TO THE SKIN.-- DRINK HOT LIQUIDS, AND SWEAT.-- THE DIET FOR COLDS.-- FRESH AIR, BETTER COLD.-- THE QUESTION OF
							EXERCISE.-- ABOUT SUMMER
							COLDS.

					IN considering the treatment of common colds, it will probably be
						best first to take up certain general procedures which are appropriate for all classes
						and stages of this annoying complaint. There is no sure cure or royal remedy for colds.
						After these general considerations, we will take up the treatment a cold in its three
						different stages. No greater mistake can be made than to treat colds with the
						conventional indifference. The physician of to-day does not advise his patients as did a
						certain old-time practitioner, who, when asked how he would treat a cold,  replied: "With contempt, madam, with contempt." All ordinary
						colds should be managed after the following general plan.

					1. Promptly empty the bowels. From the previous discussions
						respecting the cause and prevention of colds, it must be evident that constipation and
						overloading of the bowel is associated frequently with colds and other acute diseases.
						The task of clearing out the intestinal tract consists of two distinct procedures.

					At once take an active cathartic, such as a large dose of epsom salts (one or two
						table-spoonfuls, according to the individual's susceptibility), or, in the case of
						children give two doses of castor-oil about one hour apart. But even the action of a
						vigorous cathartic should not be depended upon entirely; in addition, the colon or lower
						bowel should be thoroughly washed out with warm soap-suds enemas. Castile soap or even
						common toilet soap will suffice for this purpose. These enemas may be given at a
						temperature varying from 100 to 104 degrees F. Each enema should consist of one to two
						quarts of water. The fountain syringe containing the water may  be hung four or five feet above the floor-- not higher than the top hinge of
						an ordinary door. After about a pint of water has entered the bowel, a crampy sensation
						is usually experienced. If the rubber tube supplying the water be compressed for a few
						moments, these cramps will disappear, and the entire bagful of water can be easily
						taken.

					The important thing about cleansing the bowel when one is coming down with a cold is to
						wash it out thoroughly, repeating these large, warm, soap-suds enemas two or three times
						or even more if necessary, until the water of the last enema returns from the bowel
						comparatively clear and free from fecal matter.

					In order to dissolve and properly remove matter from the intestinal tract, hot water is
						required, but it should be remembered that this hot water always weakens the intestines
						and predisposes to constipation. This is why people who regularly depend upon the enema
						to empty the bowel soon acquire the enema habit. How can this be
						avoided? Very easily: by simply allowing a pint or a pint and a half of cool water (75
						to 85 degrees F.) to enter the  bowel after the last warm
						enema. If no inconvenience is experienced the cool enema may be retained in the bowel.
						This cool enema will tone up the bowel and almost entirely counteract the debilitating
						effects of the preceding hot injections. In case of an irritable bowel, it is sometimes
						wise to add a teaspoonful of salt to this concluding cool enema.

					2. Bring the blood to the skin. The blood-vessels of the skin are
						able to hold from one-third to one-half of all the blood in the body. In the first stage
						of a cold, the skin is usually pale, rough, and cold. The hands and feet are usually
						cold. Chilly sensations play up and down the spine. The next important step in the
						general management of all colds, is to induce the blood to return to the skin. The
						patient must be kept warm, but this should not be done at the expense of fresh air, or
						by overheating the atmosphere of the room. It should be done by putting on extra
						clothing, or by going to bed with a hot water bottle after the bowels have been
						thoroughly cleansed.

					For the purpose of heating up the skin, a vapor bath may be taken, such as can be had
						in  an ordinary portable bath cabinet with an alcohol lamp.
						(See Fig. 4.) The ideal private bathroom of the
						future will probably contain an electric-light bath cabinet, as the electric-light bath
						is undoubtedly the ideal sweating procedure in breaking up colds.

					But in the absence of any or all of these appliances, an ordinary hot tub-bath may be
						taken, with cold cloths on the head; or the patient may be wrapped up in a blanket wrung
						out of boiling water, with two or three dry blankets wrapped about the outside, and all
						these surrounded by hot water bottles or glass jars filled with hot water. This hot-blanket pack makes almost an ideal sweating procedure, after which
						the patient should be thoroughly rubbed with cold water or ice-water and sent to bed. In
						giving this cold-water rub, only a small portion of the body, such as one arm, should be
						exposed at a time. Don't forget that this cold ending is an essential
							feature of all these hot sweating-baths.

					3. Drink hot liquids, and sweat. When taking a cold, drink abundance
						of hot water or hot lemonade. Put the feet in very hot 
						water, and sweat; or if some sweating-bath is given, drink hot lemonade in connection
						with the bath. If there is headache, apply cold compresses over the head, and, if
						necessary, around the neck.

					In case of all colds, cut down the solid foods and increase the liquids. The patient,
						as a rule, will not relish much water, but will readily take vast quantities of hot or
						cold lemonade.

					In giving any form of sweating-bath, care should be exercised to see that the bowels
						are thoroughly cleaned out before an effort is made to sweat the patient. Plenty of
						drinking water should also be supplied before and during the sweat. Don't forget to keep
						the patient's head properly protected by generous cheesecloth compresses or by a linen
						towel wrung out of ice-water; and it is a good plan not only to place this cooling
						compress over the forehead and on top of the head, but also to see that it is wrapped
						around the neck.

					In giving the finishing cold treatment which must invariably follow all sweat baths
						designed to break up a cold, the patient may be 
						
							FIG. 4 Taking Sweat Baths in a Portable Cabinet Bath
						
						
						 briskly rubbed with cold water (better ice-water) by means
						of the bare hand. A still better method of giving this cold terminal treatment is by
						means of a friction mitt, such as can be made out of rough mohair cloth or from Turkish
						towelling. In this way the beneficial effects of friction are added to the good effects
						of the cold water, both tending to produce a vigorous skin reaction; that is, both
						tending to bring a large volume of blood quickly to the skin, and thus relieve the
						internal congestion of the mucous membrane.

					4. The diet for colds. The old adage, which said, "Starve a fever and
						stuff a cold," is like many other of the old, time-honored sayings-- it is utterly
						false. The truth of the matter is, that a cold is essentially a fever. It frequently is
						accompanied by an actual rise of temperature. A cold is almost invariably caused by
						infection. When it does not produce a fever, it is because the body is able successfully
						to cope with the invading microbes, or because the disease is light and local.

					Nature, as a rule, completely takes away  the appetite
						when one is taking a cold or other infectious disease; and Nature is wise. Don't coax
						Mary to eat when she has a cold. Don't allow the neighbors to tempt Johnny with
						calf's-foot jelly or other dainties.

					When one is suffering from a cold, the digestive organs are in no condition to care for
						food. The digestive juices are altered, or entirely absent. One or two days' comparative
						fast will often assist in averting a severe siege of cold. A more convenient and
						enjoyable form of fasting would be to subsist for one or two days upon fruit or fruit
						juices, perhaps with the addition of a little toast. An exclusive fruit diet has all the
						practical advantages of complete fasting, while it satisfies the appetite and supplies
						fruit sugar, from which the liver can manufacture glycogen to sustain the white blood
						corpuscles in their continuous warfare against microbes.

					When one fasts for a day or two the system undergoes a spring housecleaning. Food is
						the fuel of the body, and when it is temporarily withheld, nature begins to skirmish
						around and burn up a lot of refuse and garbage which  has
						been allowed to accumulate in various parts of the body. The presence of these waste
						products and acid poisons is indirectly concerned in producing colds, and their
						destruction or removal from the body can but aid in the treatment of common colds.

					The advantages of a fruit diet in connection with colds may briefly be stated as
						follows:

					a. Fresh, unsweetened fruit juices require no digestion; they are all
						ready for immediate absorption and assimilation; they have been fully and perfectly
						digested in nature's own laboratory by the powerful rays of sunlight; and since the
						digestive apparatus is always wholly or partially deranged during an attack of cold, it
						is evident that fruit and fruit juices constitute an ideal food for the victims of
						colds.

					b. Colds frequently result from overeating of protein. Fruits contain
						practically no protein, and are accordingly a perfectly desirable and safe food in that
						respect.

					c. Fasting is altogether desirable in the early stages of a cold, but
						for a single fact-- that is, fasting soon reduces the supply of glycogen (stored sugar)
						in the liver. Now, this  glycogen is the chief food of the
						leucocytes-- the white blood corpuscles-- and these little fellows constitute the body's
						standing army of defence against all forms of infection. Fruits and fruit juices exactly
						supply the fruit sugar which is immediately available for the proper nourishment and
						sustenance of the leucocytes, without in the least overtaxing the crippled digestive
						powers or in any way adding fuel to the smouldering fires of infection.

					d. Lemonade and fruit juices encourage the taking of a large amount
						of liquids and that is altogether desirable in the case of all who are taking a
						cold.

					The fruit juices also increase the alkalinity of the blood, thereby greatly encouraging
						the activity of the white blood cells and lessening the tendency to succumb to
						infection.

					5. Fresh air-- better cold. In the first stage of a cold, especially
						if the lungs are threatened, follow the preliminary treatment of skin and bowels, by
						putting the patient to bed with a hot bag to the feet; comfortably, cover him, and throw
						the windows wide open.  Don't neglect fresh air in the
						treatment of colds. Many cases of pneumonia could have been prevented had the patient
						not been shut up in a stuffy room and forced to breathe foul air. It is important to
						keep him from chilling; the skin must be kept warm; but this should not be done by
						sacrificing fresh air. Freely ventilate the room and keep the patient warm and
						comfortable by artificial heat, using hot-water bottles if necessary.

					6. The question of exercise. Some hearty individuals when threatened
						with a cold, are able to abort it by taking a long walk in the open air. This is a good
						idea, provided there is no fever, and the cold is taken early. In the case of weakened
						or only moderately strong persons, and where the cold has had a good start, it would
						certainly be unwise to attempt to break it up by such heroic measures.

					In all these matters, common sense must be used. Debilitated patients must not presume
						to employ unreasonable measures in their efforts to break up a cold. Heroic procedures
						may prove successful when employed by  reasonably strong
						and robust persons, but they should be used very judiciously and carefully by those who
						are weak and run down.

					
						ABOUT SUMMER COLDS

						There is just as much danger of catching cold in the summer as in the winter. In some
							respects, more. The only reason we suffer more from colds in the winter, is that we
							live indoors more, and hence breathe more foul air. This probably explains why we have
							more colds in the spring of the year. We are more likely to catch cold because we have
							been more or less shut up indoors all winter., The ideal conditions for catching cold
							are found on a cool summer's evening, when the body is tired, the vitality is pretty
							well used up, and the skin and underclothing are slightly moist from perspiration.
							These are just the conditions for producing a disturbance of the circulation.
							Especially is it dangerous to ride in carriages or open cars on cool evenings without
							wraps.

						Should you find any portion of the body becoming chilled, such as the back of the
							neck,  vigorously rub it or stiffen the muscles connected
							therewith. Draughts are especially dangerous at night when one is tired out and
							perspiring.

						Summer sore-throat may be aggravated by taking large quantities of ice-water or ices,
							when the body is overheated or when the throat is congested from public speaking or
							singing. One should be particularly careful about lying down on the porch in the cool
							of the evening without suitable covering for the body. In general, a summer cold
							should be treated along the same lines as a winter cold.
					
				

				
					
					CHAPTER VI THE TREATMENT OF THE DIFFERENT STAGES OF A
						COLD

					 TREATMENT OF THE FIRST STAGE OF A COLD.-- OIL THE NOSTRILS.-- NASAL DOUCHING AND THROAT-GARGLING.-- MASSAGE TO NOSE AND
							FACE.-- THE HEATING
							COMPRESS CAP.-- HEATING
							COMPRESS TO THE THROAT.-- THE HOT FOOT BATH AND HOT DRINKS.

					 TREATMENT OF THE SECOND STAGE OF A COLD.-- THE HOT BLANKET PACK.-- THE COLD MITTEN FRICTION.-- LIGHT FRUIT DIET.-- KEEP THE SKIN ACTIVE.-- REST IN BED.-- LOCAL APPLICATIONS TO THE NOSTRILS.

					 TREATMENT OF THE THIRD STAGE OF A COLD.-- CONTINUE GENERAL TREATMENT OF SECOND
							STAGE.-- HOT FOMENTATIONS
							AND COLD MITTEN FRICTION TO THE CHEST.--
							THE HOT HIP AND LEG PACK.-- THE CHEST PACK.

					THE ordinary complaint which we commonly regard as a cold, in the
						majority of cases, runs a more or less definite course, passing through three distinct stages. The  first stage is
						sometimes very transient and the last stage is not always reached, unless the cold is
						severe and tenacious. The third stage, affecting the lungs, is more likely to follow
						colds which are neglected or otherwise mistreated.

					The three stages of a cold are as follows: 
							The anæmic or dry stage,
							The hyperæmic or moist stage.
							The stage of continued congestion, affecting the head, lungs, etc.
						
					

					
						I. TREATMENT OF THE FIRST STAGE OF A COLD

						>The first stage of a cold may be called the dry or anœmic stage. It is usually ushered in by a slight tickling sensation in the
							throat, or a dry state of the mucous membrane of the nose. One sometimes wakes up in
							the middle of the night with this dry condition of the nose and throat. Prompt
							treatment at this stage will often prevent further progress of the infection and
							successfully abort the cold. The roper method of dealing with this, the first stage of
							a cold, is as follows:


						1. Oil the nostrils. The moment this dryness  of the nose is discovered, promptly and thoroughly anoint the nostrils with
							ordinary purified or borated vaseline. Where one is subject to these frequent colds in
							the head, he might use some oily spray, administering it to the nose by means of a
							common hand atomizer. If one would avoid colds, the mucous membrane of the nose must
							be kept moist-- it must not be allowed to become dry and remain so for a very long
							period.

						There are numerous satisfactory atomizers on the market, which can be used by those
							who suffer from frequent colds and who observe that such attacks are usually ushered
							in by dryness of the nose and throat. A very useful compound for use in the atomizer
							is the following oily spray: 
								Oil of eucalyptus 20 drops
								Menthol 10 grains
								Liquid paraffin 2 ounces
							 Dissolve and mix. Use in atomizer.

						The reason this nasal dryness is experienced more in the autumn is due to the fact
							that winter air contains less moisture than the summer atmosphere; it, therefore,
							increases  the evaporation of the nasal secretions and
							results in producing increased dryness of the mucous membrane. If one especially
							suffers from this dryness during October and November, it might be well to anoint the
							mucous membrane of the nostrils slightly with a little borated vaseline upon going to
							bed; or use the atomizer with the oily spray.

						2. Nasal douching and throat gargling. If simple oiling of the
							nostrils does not remedy the dryness of the nose, and if the throat is also affected,
							nasal douching by means of the old-fashioned method of snuffing warm salt water up the
							nose or by using the common little glass douche cylinder-- allowing the water to enter
							one nostril and escape by the other-- will be found valuable in connection with
							gargling with salt and water or Dobell's solution. (For formula, see page 57.)

						It may be well to explain more fully just how to use the nasal douche cylinder, an
							illustration of which is shown in Fig. 5. The
							following directions should be followed when sing the nasal douche: (See Fig. 6.)

						Having filled the douche cylinder with the  proper
							solution, keep the index finger on the air inlet while the nozzle is placed well
							inside the nostril. With the head thrown well back and to one side, the patient raises
							the finger from the air inlet, and if the point of the nozzle is not too firmly
							pressed against the mucous membrane, the cleansing solution will begin to flow into
							the nostril. What becomes of the fluid when it has once entered the nostril depends
							entirely upon whether the mouth is kept closed or not. If the mouth is kept wide, open
							and the patient keeps on breathing, the fluid will promptly flow out of the other
							nostril; on the other hand, if the mouth is kept closed, the fluid will find its way
							into the throat and into the ears, giving rise to undesirable and disagreeable
							results-- results which are sometimes serious-- leading to unnecessary and dangerous
							infection of the ears. In using the nasal douche the mouth should always
								be kept open. If the fluid does not flow freely from the douche, slightly
							withdraw the nozzle from the nostril and all will be well.
						One of the best preparations for nasal 
							
								FIG. 5. The Nasal Douche

								FIG. 6 Taking Nasal Douche

								FIG. 7. Massage to Nose and Face.

								Illustrations of Nasal Douche and Massage.
							
							
							 douching and throat-gargling with which the author is
							acquainted is the following: 
								Sodium bicarbonate 1/2 drachm
								Sodium biborate 1/2 drachm
								Sodium benzoate 1 grain
								Eucalyptol 2/3 drop
								Menthol 1/3 grain
								Distilled water 8 ounces.
							 Dissolve and mix. Use frequently as wash and throat gargle.

						Now, if the cold should prove to be the first stage of whooping-cough or any other
							contagious malady, this nose cleansing and throat gargling is just the very treatment
							to lessen the severity and to prevent undesirable complications. Of course, when the
							germs of colds or other infections have been allowed to develop unhindered for some
							time-- when they have already got in their deadly work-- it is well-nigh useless to
							attempt to thwart them by the mere use of douches and gargles. Other and more general
							curative measures must be promptly adopted.

						3. Massage to nose and face. Vigorous rubbing of the nose and face
							for fifteen or  twenty minutes is a great help in this
							stage of a cold. (See Fig. 7.) This rubbing
							sometimes gives immediate relief from the annoying nasal dryness, producing an
							abundant flow of the natural secretions. Make sure that the feet are warm during this
							procedure. The electrical vibratory machines now so commonly used in barber shops are
							very useful when employed in the early stages of a cold; they greatly increase the
							circulation in the mucous membrane of the nose, and produce almost immediate sneezing,
							accompanied by a normal flow of the germicidal secretions of the nostrils, which at
							once destroys and washes away myriads of the mischief-making, microbes.

						4. The heating compress cap. Colds in the head may be frequently
							stopped by the following simple procedure, which requires nothing more than cold water
							and an ordinary rubber bath cap, such as ladies wear to prevent th hair getting wet
							while in bathing. (See Fig 8.) This treatment
							is particularly adapted to boys and men, although it can be taken by women who do not
							have a superabundance of  hair. Massage and rub the scalp
							with the fingers frequently dipped in ice-water. Keep this procedure up for ten or
							fifteen minutes, until the scalp is wet and the hair slightly moist. Put a tight
							fitting rubber cap on over the head, carefully covering all the wet hair. (See Fig.
								8.) This cap should be worn all night.
							Remove in the morning and administer thorough friction to the scalp with the fingers
							wet in ice-water. Thoroughly dry the hair and wear a skull cap throughout the day.
							This treatment will frequently relieve an annoying cold in the head, if it has not
							continued too long or become chronic; and provided there is not an infection of one of
							the many air chambers opening into the nose.

						5. Heating compress to the throat. It will be best to describe this
							throat compress in sections, so that the reader may thoroughly understand how to
							prepare and apply the same. (See Fig. 9.)
							This compress is indicated in the early stages of colds, sore-throat, and
							tonsilitis.

						a. Take a piece of linen cloth, one or two thicknesses-- or
							cheesecloth four or five  thicknesses-- between three and
							four inches wide and about twelve inches long (long enough to go around the throat
							nicely and lap, over). (See Fig. 9, a.) This
							is wet in ice-water or cold water, and is applied next to the skin and wrapped snugly
							about the neck. It should be wrung out of the water dry enough so that there will be
							no danger of dripping, but considerable moisture should be left in the cloth.

						b. Over this piece of wet cloth wrapped around the neck, wrap a
							piece of mackintosh or oiled silk, the same in length and about a quarter of an inch
							wider, to make sure that the edges of the wet cloth underneath it are fully covered.
							(See Fig. 9, b.) In an emergency one can use
							newspapers, table oil-cloth, paraffin paper, oil silk, or any other waterproof
							material.

						c. The third layer, or outside covering, should consist of one or
							two thicknesses of flannel about four inches wide, to be wrapped snugly around the
							neck and carefully pinned on with safety pins, so as to prevent evaporation of any of
							the moisture from the wet cloth 
							

								FIG 8. The Heating Compress Cap.

								FIG 10. Throat Compress on patient.

								FIG 9. Parts of the Throat Compress.

								Illustrations of Head and Throat Compress.
							
							
							 next to the skin. (See Fig. 9, c.) This linen cloth next to the skin should be slightly moist
							when the compress is removed next morning, for it is intended that this throat
							compress should be worn all night. The compress in place is shown in Fig. 10.

						This constitutes the best-known local and external treatment for incipient
							sore-throat, colds, pharyngitis, tonsilitis, etc., together with hoarseness and
							tickling of the throat. This compress should be put on at night, and when it is taken
							off in the morning, the throat and the back of the neck should be thoroughly rubbed,
							either with ice or ice-cold water and a rough towel, for about five minutes, and then
							carefully dried. Do not forget this application of cold when the compress
								is removed in the morning; it is absolutely necessary to prevent chilling of
							the throat during the day. If desired, a single thickness of dry flannel or a silk
							handkerchief may be worn about the neck during the day.

						6. The hot foot bath and hot drinks. As an aid in equalizing the
							circulation, the hot foot bath, previously mentioned, is of great value  and should be accompanied by the drinking of an abundance
							of hot lemonade and by cold applications to the head.
					

					
						II. TREATMENT OF THE SECOND STAGE OF A COLD

						The second stage of a cold represents the hyperemic, moist, or
								congestive stage. In contrast with the dryness of the nose and throat during
							the first stage, this stage is characterized by a moisture and a great increase of
							secretions from the mucous membrane. The nose is running, and the amount of mucus one
							pair of nostrils can secrete in an hour's time during this stage of an active cold is
							indeed phenomenal. If the disease has progressed to this stage, more vigorous and
							constitutional measures are required to combat it. In general, colds at this stage may
							be handled as follows:

						1. The hot-blanket pack. (See Fig. 11.) If no more convenient form of sweating bath is available,
							resort to the hot-blanket pack in accordance with instructions given under the head of
							"The General Treatment of Colds."  (Page 75.) The patient may be kept in the pack, if the
							head and heart are not disturbed, anywhere from fifteen minutes to three-quarters of
							an hour, or until such time as he sweats profusely. If the heart is disturbed during
							the pack, it may be quieted by the application of an ice bag over the region of the
							heart for ten or fifteen minutes.

						2. The cold-mitten friction. (See Fig. 12.) In all cases where the hot-blanket pack is given, it should
							be ended up with a cold-mitten friction, after which the patient is
							put to bed. The following is the proper method of giving the cold-mitten friction,
							which is one of the most valuable means of promoting skin-circulation. Make a
							loose-fitting mitt for the hand out of mohair cloth or Turkish towelling or any other
							rough fabric. Have two or three quarts of ice-water in a vessel by the side of the
							bed. Have the patient bring one arm out of the hot-blanket pack, and, after placing
							towels about the bed covering so as to avoid wetting the same, take the patient's hand
							in your left hand and with the mitt on your right hand, dip it into the ice-water,
							squeeze out some of  the water, and then vigorously rub
							the patient's arm. Repeat the procedure two or three times, if necessary, and continue
							rubbing until the skin of the arm is pink, and a good reaction is secured. Now,
							quickly dry the arm and cover it with dry towels or the dry blanket.

						The whole body is gone over after this fashion, taking next the other arm, then the
							chest, the back, and then the legs, one at a time. This treatment is of great service
							in fighting colds, even without a long sweat before it; but it is usually best to
							administer first some sort of hot bath, to bring the blood to the skin, before giving
							this cold treatment.

						3. Light fruit diet. During this stage of the cold, the diet should
							largely be limited to liquids, to fruits, or simple foods, such as toast. For a few
							days it will be well to avoid meat, milk, and eggs, as well as other nitrogenous
							foods, such as beans and cheese. Let the patient have all the oranges and fruits
							desired. The reader is referred to the discussion of diet in relation to the
							prevention of  colds (Page 63); and fasting or fruit diet in the general treatment of colds
							(Page 77).

						4. Keep the skin active. At all hazards, the blood must be kept
							circulating in the skin, or we shall be compelled to face the dangers of the third
							stage of the cold-- the congestion and inflammation of some internal organ. If the
							skin is rough and harsh, rub daily with cocoa butter or olive oil. The skin must be
							kept warm and active and this will be greatly aided by supplying the body with an
							abundance of liquids so as to encourage the normal action of the sweat glands.

						Of course, such methods as nasal douching, gargling, and fresh air, as recommended
							for the treatment of the first stage of the cold, are all to be used as indicated, in
							the treatment of this, the second. stage.

						5. Rest in bed. When a cold has progressed thus far, it is usually
							unwise to undertake to wear it out, and it is hardly possible that it can be
							successfully broken up. It is far better to go to bed for a few days and give the
							system a fair chance to fight the enemy. It  is hazardous
							to go about one's work with a fever.

						When the system is flooded with the toxins of cold or influenza germs, both the
							nervous system and the heart. are placed under an extraordinary strain; and nervous
							disorders later in life, as well as heart failure, have no doubt had their foundations
							laid when their victims went on about their work, refusing to take time for rest, when
							suffering from a "bad cold" or a "little touch of the grippe." Both time and money are
							saved by a little judicious rest at such times. A few days' rest in bed may avert
							serious and painful complications later in life.

						6. Local applications to the nostril. As a rule, sufferers from
							colds are more at ease if the atmosphere can be kept slightly moist. Steam inhalation
							is very acceptable as a rule. One should be careful not to wash out the nose with
							cleansing solutions when there are great swelling and severe infection-- it might
							result in infecting the ears. There is great danger from carelessly snuffing salt
							water up the nose during this stage of a cold. Under 
							
								FIG. 11. The Hot Blanket Pack
							
							
								FIG. 12. Cold Mitten Friction.
							
							
							 such conditions it would be best to use some kind of
							antiseptic and oily spray, by means of a small hand atomizer. The following
							prescription will be found very agreeable-- considerably relieving the irritation and
							lessening the secretions: 
								Menthol 20 grains
								Camphor 20 grains
								Liquid vaseline 2 ounces.
							 Mix, and label: Use in atomizer as nasal spray.

						Avoid using patent nostrums for cough medicines. Use the will-power in controlling
							dry, hacking, unproductive coughs. An excellent cough-reliever is obtained by inhaling
							the fumes of a steaming dish of water in which one-half teaspoonful of compound
							tincture of benzoin has been dissolved.

						When the throat is unusually sore, it may be painted or swabbed with a ten-per-cent
							solution of argyrol. Don't fail to have a competent physician examine all cases of
							sore-throat-- especially in children-- to make sure that the case is not one of
							diphtheria.
					

					
						

						III. TREATMENT OF THE THIRD STAGE OF A COLD

						Ordinary colds which have been allowed to progress usually continue to the point
							where the air spaces in the head or some internal organ are more or less affected. As
							a result of the blood leaving the skin, the internal organs of the body are more or
							less congested. It may be the throat, the lungs, the ear, or some of the air spaces in
							the skull (giving rise to chronic colds in the head), or it may be some organ not
							connected with the respiratory tract, such as the intestines or the kidneys. It is
							quite a common experience for young boys to have diarrhœa following their first
							attempt to go bare-footed in the spring. This is due to getting the feet and legs
							chilled and causing a congestion of the abdominal viscera.

						The treatment of the third stage of a cold becomes far more important and serious
							than the treatment of the two preceding stages. We seriously doubt the wisdom of
							anyone undertaking to treat this stage of a cold without  medical assistance. In fact, we believe it is a great mistake to neglect any
							serious cold or a case of the grippe, allowing these ailments to drift along without
							medical attention. The consequences of influenza are sometimes unusually serious. The
							further treatment of colds which have apparently settled in some part of the body,
							usually in the lungs, is as follows:

						1. Continue the general treatment suggested for the second stage.
							In the third stage of colds, it is equally important to keep the blood circulating in
							the skin, to keep the bowels open, to give the same hot and cold treatment to the
							skin, to supply the body with an abundance of liquids, to keep up the light diet, and
							more particularly, to supply an abundance of fresh air and enforce absolute physical
							quiet.

						The third stage of a cold usually involves the lungs, and is manifested by coughing,
							soreness in the chest, deranged breathing; it may vary in severity from a mild
							bronchitis to a typical pneumonia.

						2. Hot fomentations and cold-mitten friction  to the chest. In these cases of mild "cold on the lungs," it will
							be well to treat the chest both front and back by applying hot flannel cloths, wrung
							out of boiling-hot water, to the skin. These cloths should be about the size of a
							fourth of a single blanket, and wrung from boiling-hot water. These flannels should be
							thoroughly wrung out. A dry flannel cloth should be laid over the chest, the hot wet
							cloth being placed upon this, and the whole covered with another dry flannel cloth.
							For a fomentation to be effective it should be quite disagreeably hot. Just as soon as
							it feels warm and comfortable it should be changed and a new hot cloth applied. After
							three or four of these hot applications, the chest should be vigorously rubbed with
							cold or ice-water, as before described, under the head of the "cold-mitten friction."
							(See page 95.) The same treatment should be
							given to the back of the chest, and may be administered three or four times a day,
							when the lungs are tight or stopped up. Always begin with the hot cloths and end with
							the cold friction.

						4. The hot hip-and-leg pack. This treatment 
							
								FIG 13. Method of putting on chest pack
							
							
							 is very useful in relieving congestion of the lungs.
							Even in the treatment of regular pneumonia, the author depends upon this procedure as
							much as he does upon other treatments which are given directly over the lungs. This
							pack is given after the same methods described for the full hot-blanket pack, only it
							does not take in the chest and arms. It covers the legs, hips, and the lower part of
							the abdomen. (See Fig. 11.) This treatment
							greatly enlarges the blood-vessels of the lower extremities and directly drains the
							blood away from the head and chest to the hips and legs. It is well to give the
							hip-and-leg pack in connection with the hot and cold treatment of the chest, as this
							represents an ideal combination to relieve congestion of the lungs.

						5. The chest pack. At night before the patient retires, if the
							lungs are "tight," the chest pack may be applied as follows: (See Fig. 13.)

						a. Take two ordinary towels, wet them in ice-water and wring until
							quite thoroughly dry. Place one over each shoulder, allowing it to come down
							diagonally across the chest  and likewise across the
							back. (See Fig. 13, a.)

						b. Have in readiness for this time, a jacket made of oil silk or
							mackintosh cloth, or some other waterproof material like ordinary table oil-cloth--
							which can be quickly pinned over the patient's chest, front and back, coming well up
							over the shoulders, so that the entire chest is thoroughly covered, making a snug fit
							around the neck and both arms. (See Fig. 13, b.) All this should then be covered with a flannel jacket made out of two thicknesses
							of blanket, or, with what is more convenient-- two pairs of ordinary underdrawers.
							(See Fig. 13, c.) Placing the body of one
							pair of drawers over the chest, draw the legs over the shoulders, cross them at the
							back, after which they are drawn forward around the sides and pinned to the trunk in
							front. The other pair of drawers has its trunk placed over the back, the legs brought
							forward over the shoulders, crossed over the chest, and carried around the sides
							backward to be pinned at the back. The pack in place-- complete-- is shown in Fig. 13,
								d.

						

						The wearing of this chest pack during the night will often serve to loosen up a bad
							cold on the lungs, and two or three nights will suffice to cure some of the worst of
							colds which have settled on the lungs. On taking this chest pack off in the morning,
								the chest and back should be rubbed thoroughly with ice-water and very
								carefully dried. This is important and under no circumstances must it be
							neglected. A thin extra shirt may be worn during the day, and it is well to anoint the
							chest with cocoa butter or a little vaseline.

						The further treatment of the third stage of a cold entirely depends upon its
							seriousness and persistency, and detailed directions cannot be fully or safely given
							here, as the treatment of serious inflammations of the lungs and other internal organs
							following severe colds, is of serious importance. They are matters belonging entirely
							to the attending physician.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER VII ADENOIDS AND THE TONSILS

					 WHAT ARE ADENOIDS?-- THE CAUSES OF ADENOIDS.-- SYMPTOMS OF ADENOIDS.-- OBJECTIVE SYMPTOMS OF ADENOIDS.-- SUBJECTIVE SYMPTOMS OF ADENOIDS.-- THE REMOVAL OF ADENOIDS.-- THE TONSILS; TONSILITIS.

					WE have previously considered adenoids as one of the predisposing
						causes of frequent and recurrent colds, but adenoids and also the tonsils, especially in
						the case of children, are deserving of more than passing notice.

					
						WHAT ARE ADENOIDS?

						It is entirely appropriate to study adenoids in connection with the tonsils and
							tonsilitis, for, in reality, adenoids are but a hypertrophy or enlargement of a
							certain small tonsilar body or lymph gland, known as the pharyngeal
								tonsil. This little body, for it is indeed quite 
							small when not enlarged by disease, is located in the middle line on the roof or vault
							of the throat directly behind the nostrils and just above the soft palate. It directly
							covers the opening of a minute canal which leads from the throat up to the region of
							the pituitary body at the base of the brain.

						The purpose of this little tonsil in the roof of the throat is practically unknown to
							medical science. In fact, the function of even the larger tonsils in the throat still
							remains more or less of a physiological mystery. All this tonsilar tissue can be taken
							out of the throat without producing the least discoverable effect on the health of the
							patient.

						When this little pharyngeal tonsil is irritated or inflamed, its peculiar structure
							permits it to enlarge and extend until it may completely fill the vault of the throat,
							and so effectively stop up both nostrils as to render it impossible for any air to
							find its way through the nose to the lungs. This condition of affairs compels its
							victims to develop into mouth-breathers.

						The very location of adenoids at once  suggests great
							possibilities for mischief. They are in position to interfere seriously with
							breathing, and when their infectious secretions drop down into the throat, they are
							able to derange digestion and disorder the bowels. They also occupy a position which
							enables them to affect the important special senses of smell, hearing, and taste.
					

					
						THE CAUSES OF ADENOIDS

						In early infancy, the pharyngeal tonsil, from which adenoids always develop, is a
							very tiny and insignificant structure, composed of tonsilar or lymph tissue. It is
							found to obey the general laws of lymph tissue; and one of the peculiarities of this
							particular tissue, especially in the case of children, is that the presence of germs
							or bacterial toxins invariably produces hypertrophy; enlargement-- enormous
							overgrowth.

						Adenoids may make their appearance at any age. They are commonly observed in children
							from five to fourteen years of age, but in many instances they make their appearance
							in the first or second year of life; even children but, 
							a few months old have been found to have adenoids. Adenoids of sufficient severity to
							affect the health of the child are probably found in but a trifle more than five per
							cent of the children, certainly not over ten per cent; while in the case of deaf
							mutes, it is found that over seventy per cent are afflicted with adenoids. This fact
							alone is a strong suggestion as to one of the potent causes of deafness.

						It is highly probable that the pharyngeal tonsil may be first irritated and thus
							started on its career of mischief-making, by the severe throat irritations and
							infections which almost invariably accompany the various diseases of childhood. The
							throat is usually severely inflamed in scarlet-fever, measles, diphtheria, etc., and
							it is not unlikely that these diseases prove the starting-point for adenoids; at least
							in many cases this is undoubtedly the real exciting cause of this troublesome
							disorder.

						In other cases it is probable that adenoids make their appearance following several
							severe and persistent attacks of the "snuffles"-- neglected colds; and so while
							adenoids often may  be responsible for colds in the
							child of eight or ten years of age, it is highly probable that a succession of colds
							in the head earlier in life was directly responsible for the adenoids; and for this
							reason, if for no other, colds in babies and young children should never be neglected.
							Their colds should be antiseptically and intelligently treated, and not be allowed by
							neglect to set in operation inflammations of the throat, which are almost sure to end
							in the production of a liberal crop of adenoids.

						While adenoids are not hereditary, they often appear to be a family characteristic,
							and it is quite likely that certain characteristic features running through one family
							for successive generations owe their facial peculiarities to the early development of
							adenoids, which in turn, are responsible for certain characteristic formations of the
							nose, face, etc. Climate plays but a small part in the causation of adenoids. It seems
							to be largely a question of the general health of the child and certain local
							irritations and inflammations of the nose and throat.
					

					
					
						THE SYMPTOMS OF ADENOIDS

						It is important that parents, guardians, and teachers, as well as physicians and
							nurses, should be well informed concerning the symptoms of adenoids, that they may be
							early detected and promptly removed, before permanent injury has been done to the
							features, mind, and health of the child. The symptoms of adenoids may be divided into
							two great classes: the objective symptoms, that is, signs which the parent or
							physician can observe in the child; and the subjective symptoms, that is, the
							manifestation of the disease which the child himself experiences.

						1. Objective symptoms of adenoids. First and foremost, adenoid
							children are mouth-breathers. The mouth is constantly open to some degree, and it is
							of little use everlastingly to admonish these children to stop breathing through their
							mouths. A healthy child will never breathe through his mouth, unless the nose is or
							has been stopped up. And so mouth-breathing is the chief and characteristic evidence
							of adenoids.

						

						The facial expression is characteristic. The child exhibits more or less a vacant
							stare, a listless look in the eyes. Because of the under-development of the upper jaw,
							the upper lip is usually thick and short, while the under jaw, being larger in
							proportion, protrudes somewhat outward.

						The adenoid child is usually regarded as stupid. This mental stupidity and
							inattention to its surroundings probably results from a dulling of the hearing; and
							the hearing has been injured by the extension of catarrhal inflammation from the
							adenoids lying about the mouth of the Eustachian tube down through the tube to the
							ear. The Eustachian tube presents a direct channel of communication between the throat
							and the ear, its purpose being to equalize air pressure in the ear. Its presence is
							indicated by the feeling of escaping air in the ear when one makes a quick elevator
							trip from the top to the bottom of a high office building.

						These children are always under-sized, pigeon-breasted, several inches short for
							their ages, and five to ten pounds under the average 
							weight. They suffer from general backwardness, and are usually two or three grades
							behind other children of their own age in their school work.

						They soon develop high-arched palates, and narrow-pointed noses. These deformities
							are due to the fact that nature makes no effort to preserve useless structures.
							Accordingly, when the adenoids stop up the nostrils, and the nose ceases to
							functionate as a breathing organ, nature proceeds to enlarge the mouth upward,
							encroaching, more or less, upon the nose; and this change in development not only
							accounts for the peculiar, narrow face of the adenoid victim, but also accounts for
							the crowding of the teeth and production of the prominent and irregular appearance of
							the teeth, together with the pinched and contracted nostrils.

						The voice is muffled, the resonance diminished. The tone is dull and dead. The breath
							is fetid and disagreeable, resulting directly from the festering mass of adenoids in
							the throat, and indirectly from the stomach disorders which always accompany this
							deplorable state of affairs.

						

						These children are slow to respond to commands, and dull in following directions, not
							only because of the stunted mental growth, but also from the fact that they are
							usually hard of hearing, and their perception has become more or less dulled because
							of this.

						In a child possessing the symptoms of the foregoing picture (see Fig. i4.), the physician never fails to find adenoids
							upon inserting the examining finger into the vault of the pharynx.

						2. The subjective symptoms of adenoids. The symptom which the child
							himself first experiences is a loss of appetite. He complains of a bad taste in his
							mouth, the sense of smell is considerably impaired, he loses more or less of his
							relish for his former favorite dishes, and becomes subject to numerous and frequent
							attacks of biliousness and stomach trouble, followed by marked distention of the
							abdomen.

						The child soon presents evidence of a chronic nasal catarrh, and if old enough,
							complains of constant dripping of mucus down into the throat; and, if above five or
							six years of age, is found constantly hawking and spitting to 
							
								FIG. 14. A Child with Adenoids.
							
							
							 avoid swallowing these adenoid-secretions. About this
							time he may be subject to frequent slight attacks of fever. These spells of fever may
							be due to the disturbances going on in the stomach and bowels, or they may result from
							the absorption of an unusual amount of the poisonous toxins of the bacteria which live
							and thrive in this festering mass of adenoid tissue.

						The child soon begins to lose all interest in both work and play, and only with
							difficulty can, the attention be concentrated on any one thing. He seems to have lost
							his powers of concentration. He is extremely restless through the day, fretful and
							peevish, and manifests a tendency to go from one thing to another. At night he is
							exceedingly restless, rolling and tossing about in bed and constantly throwing off the
							covers. He is frequently disturbed by night terrors, and in many cases, these children
							when young, are victims of nocturnal enuresis-- wetting the bed at night.

						Direct infection of the ear-- manifested by frequent attacks of earache-- makes its
							appearance, and the entire mental development of  the
							child is arrested, often the speech becomes defective, and such a complete change in
							the facial expression is produced, that, unless the adenoids are promptly removed, the
							lines of this facial deformity may be carried throughout life. This, then, is the
							picture of the adenoid child-- a picture which should alarm any parent and lead to
							quick remedial efforts.
					

					
						THE REMOVAL OF ADENOIDS

						Attention has been called to the fact that adenoids are located directly over the
							mouth of a minute canal which leads from the roof of the throat up to the pituitary
							body at the base of the brain; and it has been suggested that many of the marked
							effects of adenoids upon the mind are produced by the influence of the poisons which
							may pass up through this canal to the brain.

						It is a well-known fact that this little pituitary body exerts a very profound
							influence upon the physical development, and it may also be discovered that it
							directly influences mental development. Enlargement of the pituitary body produces the
							well-known disease,  of over-development called giantism, and it is also responsible for another form of overgrowth
							affecting certain parts of the body, and known scientifically as acromegaly. It has long been known that diminution of the pituitary body
							resulted in producing dwarfs. This little body also secretes substances which exert a
							very direct influence in raising and lowering the blood pressure.

						It is nothing more or less than criminal for parents and guardians knowingly to allow
							children to go along harboring these dangerous adenoids when a simple operation of but
							a few moments' duration will result in their complete eradication. We are aware that
							even some physicians have taught that if adenoids were not very bad, they could be
							left alone and that they would dry up or go away at puberty. But this is now known to
							be a false doctrine, Adenoids are not especially prone to go away at puberty. They may
							persist indefinitely; besides, when they are allowed to remain for several years, they
							result in producing permanent deformity of the face, jaws, etc.

						

						Again, the fact must not be overlooked that adenoids are responsible for by far the
							majority of earaches, as well as the majority of the colds which appear in children
							suffering from these diseased growths. It must not be forgotten that more than
							two-thirds of all children having adenoids, have their Eustachian tubes involved, and,
							as a consequence, the ears are more or less diseased.

						When the tonsils are enlarged, adenoids are nearly always present; but it does not
							follow that when adenoids are present the tonsils are always enlarged. The tonsils are
							enlarged in only about one-third of the cases having adenoids.

						The operation for the removal of adenoids is such a slight affair, especially in
							young children, that its performance should never be postponed for a single week when
							the presence of these growths is detected. When adenoids are suspected, the child
							should immediately be examined by a competent physician, that the facts may be
							ascertained.

						There is no operation in modern surgery, not excepting its most skilful procedures,
							which  can exhibit such a triumph in the line of
							immediate achievement and spectacular results as the simple operation for the removal
							of adenoids. Within a few short weeks following the operation, the child develops a
							good appetite, rapidly puts on flesh, takes a new interest in both work and play,
							sleeps well, exhibits marked increase in its powers of attention, becomes one of the
							brightest pupils in its class, the entire expression of the face changes-- begins to
							beam with intelligence; the former listless child is now alert; the hearing, if it has
							not been permanently impaired, begins rapidly to recover; the fetid odor of the breath
							disappears; the digestive disturbances pass away; in fact, the transformation is so
							marvellous, so complete, and so sudden, that it proves conclusively that the poisonous
							excretions of the adenoid mass were being carried by the blood stream to every cell of
							brain and body, and, that as a result, the entire being was so saturated and steeped
							with these toxins as effectually to retard all development. Upon the complete removal
							of these festering sores, the young life takes on a new lease, and  begins to bud and blossom in a most astonishing and
							unexpected manner.
					

					
						THE TONSILS; TONSILITIS

						The larger tonsils on the sides of the throat, as far as our present knowledge goes,
							are just about as useless as the small tonsil in the roof of the throat, which is
							primarily responsible for the development of adenoids. When healthy, the tonsils may
							serve as a barrier to the entrance of germs into the system from the throat; when the
							tonsils have once become diseased, when they have passed through several attacks of
							inflammation, they become more or less permanently enlarged, and if they ever
							possessed a useful function, it is entirely lost. Such diseased tonsils are hotbeds
							for the development of microbes, and are a great menace to the health of both children
							and adults, and no time should be lost in bringing about their complete removal. (See
							Fig. 1.)

						As previously suggested, merely clipping off enlarged portions of the tonsil, will
							not suffice; the entire tonsil with its capsule must be 
							completely and carefully dissected out by a competent surgeon, as leaving in the
							throat small portions of the diseased tonsil is sure to give rise to further mischief
							in the future.

						There can be little doubt that many cases of rheumatism, rheumatic fever, and even
							serious heart-disease in the case of young boys and girls, owe their origin to
							diseased tonsils. It is highly probable that the healthy tonsil, would be but little
							larger than a pea or, at most, a Lima bean; so it is evident that practically all
							cases of enlarged tonsils we see in children, youths, and adults, are more or less
							diseased and permanently hypertrophied. We cannot but believe that if some of the
							energy that has been spent in taking out the appendix had been devoted to taking out
							tonsils and adenoids, the race would have profited equally.

						Diseased and enlarged tonsils, then, must be put in the same category with adenoids.
							They can only work mischief, and therefore should be promptly and completely removed.
							To retain them can only mean frequent colds, sore-throats, and possible attacks of
							rheumatism;  even the more serious complications of
							bronchitis, pneumonia, and tuberculosis are favored by the presence of these
							germ-breeding and germ-spreading diseased structures.
					
				

				
					
					CHAPTER VIII INFLUENZA-- LA GRIPPE

					 THE CAUSE OF INFLUENZA.--
							EPIDEMIC INFLUENZA.-- ENDEMIC-EPIDEMIC INFLUENZA.--
							ENDEMIC INFLUENZA.-- THE SYMPTOMS OF INFLUENZA.--
							THE DIAGNOSIS OF INFLUENZA.-- COMPARATIVE SYMPTOMS OF INFLUENZA AND COLDS.-- THE TREATMENT OF INFLUENZA.-- GENERAL TREATMENT.-- PAIN IN THE BACK AND IN THE
							LEGS.-- HIGH
							FEVER.-- SEVERE
							HEADACHES.-- HOW TO COMBAT
							PNEUMONIA.-- THE USE OF
							DRUGS.-- CONVALESCENCE.

					WHILE common colds are undoubtedly frequently caused by the Pfeiffer
						bacillus (the microbe of influenza), nevertheless, la grippe, as an
						epidemic disease, must always stand out separate and apart from colds. It is by far a
						more serious illness than the common household cold.

					Influenza is an acute infectious disease accompanied by more or less fever. It spreads
						with extraordinary rapidity from town to town,  and from
						continent to continent, and is notorious in that it indiscriminately attacks such a
						large percentage of the population. It is a disease manifesting itself largely by
						inflammations of the respiratory mucous membranes, great and sudden physical
						prostration, and not infrequently by complications and inflammations in various internal
						organs and other parts of the body.

					
						THE CAUSE OF INFLUENZA

						In 1892, Pfeiffer discovered the bacillus which is now recognized as the cause of
							this epidemic disease. The germ is found both at the point of attack, as in the throat
							or lungs, and also in the blood. Unlike most other contagious diseases, influenza does
							not confer immunity upon its victims; that is, one attack of the disease does not
							render one unlikely to have a second attack; and in this way, influenza differs from
							scarlet-fever, measles, and numerous other contagious diseases.

						Three distinct forms of influenza are now generally recognized. They are:

						1. Epidemic influenza. This is the disease in  its most virulent form, and represents the degree of infection found in
							the great world epidemics, such as that which last visited this country in 1889-90.
							The disease made its appearance in the distant provinces of Russia in October, 1889;
							in November it was in Moscow; two weeks later Berlin was' smitten; in the middle of
							December the disease appeared in London; by Christmas, New York had succumbed, and the
							infection was rapidly whisked over the entire continent. Within a year it had
							encircled the globe and had smitten the people of every clime.

						2. Endemic-epidemic influenza. This is the form of the disease
							appearing for several years following the great world epidemics, and is a genuine
							influenza, although, as a rule, it is not quite so severe, and is not followed with
							such a large percentage of fatalities.

						3. Endemic influenza, or so-called catarrhal
								fever. This is the milder form of disease, which, while it is caused by the
							Pfeiffer bacillus, is not nearly so severe as the preceding forms. It represents the
							disease which, when it is too severe to pass for a common cold, is usually  described under the terms of "the grippe" or "a slight
							touch of the grippe."
					

					
						THE SYMPTOMS OF INFLUENZA

						As a general rule, influenza proves to be an inflammatory disease of the nose,
							throat, and lungs; but not infrequently the poisons of these germs seem to localize in
							other parts of the body, giving rise to an entirely different type of the disease. As
							the respiratory type of the disease is by far the more common, we will give chief
							attention to the symptoms of that form.

						Influenza usually makes its appearance about three or four days after one is exposed
							to the, germs. As a rule, the first symptom is a sudden chill, accompanied by profound
							physical weakness-- prostration. In the typical cases, where the nose, throat, and
							lungs are chiefly affected, there appears a profuse watery discharge from the nose.
							The dry stage of the nose and throat, comparable to the dry stage which precedes the
							moist or running stage in common colds, is usually very brief and sometimes unobserved
							in influenza.

						Severe pain soon appears just back of the  eyes. There
							is also great pain in the back and in the legs: the pain is sometimes described as
							being in the bones; the patient literally aches all over. The fever is usually quite
							high, and the patient sometimes complains of intense general soreness.

						The lungs are more or less affected, the patient begins to cough, and the sputum
							which is coughed up is of a characteristic greenish-yellow color and more or less
							lumpy. La grippe frequently runs into pneumonia, and these influenza
							pneumonias are exceedingly fatal.

						The nervous symptoms of influenza, in addition to the pain already described and the
							profound and extraordinary prostration, may extend to the point of producing delirium;
							and in one form of the disease there may result an actual meningitis.

						In rare cases, the poisons of the germs seem more to affect the bowels; in which
							cases there is nausea, vomiting, colic, diarrhoea, or even jaundice.

						Influenza is the great disease of dangerous complications. While it spares the most
							of its  victims, and they apparently fully recover, it
							accomplishes its deadly work by weakening the system, undermining the vitality, and
							permanently crippling one or more of the internal organs.

						Some victims of the grippe never fully recover the health of the lungs. They linger
							on for years with more or less of a chronic bronchitis, and eventually develop
							tuberculosis. In others the heart seems to be permanently affected. They live for
							years with weak hearts, and finally die of heart failure. Thousands die annually of
							influenza-pneumonia, pleurisy, etc. In other cases the disease is followed by severe
							diseases of the eyes and ears, while a not uncommon complication is nephritis or
							inflammation of the kidneys.
					

					
						THE DIAGNOSIS OF INFLUENZA

						Bad as are our common colds, and their consequences when neglected, influenza is by
							far worse. Under no circumstances should the layman ever assume the great
							responsibility of treating influenza. The best of medical assistance should be secured
							to assist in combating  this dangerous and treacherous
							disease. While we recognize that the average reader will probably not call a physician
							when but slightly suffering from an ordinary cold, we want to insist upon the
							necessity of calling medical help when smitten with influenza or the grippe, and to
							that end, we have prepared the following table, a parallel arrangement of the symptoms
							of a common cold and those of influenza, that one may be able to tell at once, and at
							a glance, the difference between the two ailments and thus be able to form a fairly
							accurate opinion as to the nature of his disease.

						
							
								SYMPTOMS OF INFLUENZA OR LA GRIPPE.
								SYMPTOMS OF A COMMON COLD.
							

							
								1. Onset:Sudden-- without warning or previous hint. Strikes
									as by an unseen hand.
								1. Onset: Not so sudden; usually passes through a warning
									stage.
							
							
								2. Chills and fever: Definite chills and marked fever. More
									or less sudden appearance of both.
								2. Chills and fever: Chilliness rather than definite chills;
									fever not so marked, or absent-so-called inward-fever.
							
							
								3. Prostration: Profound, sudden, and continued, out of all
									proportion to the other symptoms.
								3. Prostration: Not so profound-- merely a general weakness,
									just a general "good-for-nothing feeling."
							
							
								4. Coryza: Watery discharge begins at once, little or no
									recognizable dry stage preceding its appearance.
								4. Coryza: Comes on gradually, preceded by a dry stage
									lasting from a few hours to several days.
							
							
							
								5. Sore-throat: Not such a constant symptom, unless
									complicated by tonsilitis. General soreness; diffuse redness.
								5. Sore-throat: Usually an early symptom, especially when
									tonsils are diseased. May begin with slight tonsilar soreness.
							
							
								6. Headache: Usually severe, often in the eyes or at the
									back of the head; hard to control; often described as a "splitting
									headache."
								6. Headache: Not so profound; eyes not so affected; usually
									in forehead or more to back of the nose; not always present. May be
									general.
							
							
								7. Backache: Nearly always present-- severe--
									characteristic.
								7. Backache: Not usually present-- only a feeling of
									weakness in the back.
							
							
								8. Pain in the legs: Usually marked and severe.
								8. Pain in the legs: Not usually present.
							
							
								9. Pain in the bones: A characteristic pain of
									influenza.
								9. Pain in the bones: The bones do not especially ache in
									colds.
							
							
								10. Temperature: Fever runs high for several days-- from 100
									up to 105 degrees, or even 106 degrees, in severe cases.
								10. Temperature: Fever absent or runs low; usually comes on
									more gradually and runs from 99 to 101 degrees.
							
							
								11. Sputum: Usually a characteristic greenish-yellow,
									containing many coin-like lumps.
								11. Sputum: Not characteristic; may vary in color and form
									-yellow, white, or mixed.
							
							
								12. Lung complications: Lungs usually involved. Severe
									complications often make early appearance.
								12. Lung complications: Lungs often not involved. Lung
									complications appear later-- the third stage of a cold.
							
							
								13. Nervous symptoms: Very marked. In some forms resembling
									meningitis. Patient usually restless and sleepless. In severe cases,
									delirium.
								13. Nervous Symptoms: Not prominent as a rule; not profound.
									Patient often rests and sleeps well, if nose is not completely stopped up.
							

							

							
								14. Influenza: Travels more in epidemics, although it is
									ever present with us. It runs through a town or a nation.
								14. Colds: May be contracted at any time; they are more
									local, although they may run through a family or a school.
							
							
								15. Sequelæ: Leaves its victims prostrate. Is followed by
									lung, kidney, heart and nervous diseases. Results of a single attack may be
									lifelong. Patient remains greatly weakened for two or three weeks. 
								15. Sequelæ: Recovery from a single attack is more or less
									complete. More largely affects the nose, throat, lungs, and the sinuses. Repeated
									attacks usually required to produce serious after results.
							
						

						Another reason for summoning prompt medical assistance in influenza is to make sure
							that the disease is properly diagnosed and not confused with cerebro-spinal
							meningitis; for in the early stages one form of the grippe is almost identical in its
							symptoms and general manifestations with the early stages of meningitis.
					

					
						THE TREATMENT OF INFLUENZA

						It is popularly supposed that there is very little to be done for the grippe; one
							must just go to bed and suffer; stick it out, and let the  disease run its course of a week or ten days. This is a great mistake. Not only can
							much be done to shorten the course of the disease and to render the patient more
							comfortable, but such treatment will also greatly assist in preventing subsequent
							inflammations and undesirable after-effects.

						1. General treatment. Put the patient to bed and keep him there
							until the doctor authorizes him to get up; that is, until the disease is thoroughly
							eradicated. Stop all solid food, give only fruit juices and gruels for two or three
							days. Give plenty of water or lemonade, either hot or cold; a glass of liquid every
							one or two hours when the patient is awake, and oftener if he desires it.

						At the onset of the disease, it is well to give a brisk cathartic such as a dose of
							castor-oil, followed in one or two hours by a dose of epsom salts. The bowels should
							be promptly and thoroughly washed out, by means of several large, warm, soap-suds
							enemas. (See page 72.)

						Sweating baths followed by cold-mitten friction, as described under the treatment of
								 the second stage of colds, are also beneficial. (See
							page 95.)

						Hot foot baths in connection with hot lemonade drinking, are valuable. .(See page
								93.)

						Do not forget to isolate and quarantine influenza patients. All discharges from the
							nose, throat, and lungs, should be carefully collected and disinfected.

						Keep the feet warm and the head cool: hot water bottles to the feet; cold cloths on
							the head.

						2. Pain in the back and in the legs. These pains in various parts
							of the body may be relieved by very hot foot baths followed by cold-mitten friction.
							Pains are also greatly relieved by keeping the feet and legs thoroughly warm. They are
							sometimes greatly relieved by gentle rubbing or stroking.

						3. High fever. The fever of the grippe is best treated by cooling
							wet-sheet packs, or by injecting of cold water into the bowel. The wet-sheet packs are
							given as follows: (See Fig. 15.)

						An ordinary sheet is folded from either side  toward
							the middle (see Fig. 15-a) and then wrung
							quite dry out of cold water or ice-water. It really requires two persons to wring the
							sheet. (See Fig. 15-b.) While the patient is
							rolled over on one side, the properly folded wet sheet is placed in the middle of the
							bed. The patient is quickly returned to his back, and, with the arms extended above
							his head, one side of the sheet is quickly drawn over the chest and abdomen, and
							snugly wrapped around the leg on that side. The arms are now quickly brought down to
							the sides, and the other side of the sheet is brought over the chest and arms, snugly
							tucked about the neck, and wrapped about the other leg. Before all this procedure, dry
							blankets were prepared on the bed underneath the wet sheet, and these are now quickly
							brought over the patient, and in a very few moments the sufferer begins to feel much
							better: the fever is quickly reduced; the patient rests better, often falling asleep
							immediately after one of these packs. (See Fig. 15-c.) The wet sheet pack not only lowers the temperature, but also
							greatly lessens 
							

								A. WRINGING THE SHEET

								B FOLDING THE SHEET

								C THE PACK APPLIED AND COVERED WITH BLANKETS

								FIG 15. The wet sheet pack
							
							
							 all the nervous symptoms of the patient. These packs
							can be repeated two or three times if necessary. The worst cases of fever are usually
							controlled by giving one or two packs twice daily.

						4. Severe headaches. When ordinary, generous cold-compresses about
							the head, face, and neck do not control headache, it will be found best to give
							alternate hot and cold compresses to the head and face. Fomentations to the face,
							especially over the eyes, are often helpful. Protect the eyes with pledgets of cotton
							or by smaller cold cloths. Fomentations should be given in accordance with directions
							noted elsewhere. (See page 101.)

						5. How to combat pneumonia. The important thing in the treatment of
							influenza, aside from serious complications, is the prevention of pneumonia, and this
							may be effectually combated as follows:

						a. Hot fomentations to the chest, front and back, followed by
							cold-mitten friction. Three changes of hot cloths are made, and then one cold-friction
							rub is given. This procedure  should be repeated every
							three to six hours, owing to the severity of lung complications.

						b. In every way possible, keep the blood circulating in the skin.
							Keep the patient warm. This does not necessarily mean that he must breathe polluted
							and overheated air. The patient can be surrounded by hot water bottles and properly
							covered, while plenty of fresh air is admitted to the sick-room.

						c. Pay special attention to keeping the feet and legs warm. If
							necessary, put extra clothing on the lower extremities.

						d. See that the lungs are kept properly covered, and that the
							shoulders are not exposed. If the patient tries to sit up in bed, later in the
							disease, see that warm shirts or jackets are put on.

						e. Provide the patient with plenty of fresh air day and night.

						6. The use of drugs. Very little medicine is given by most
							physicians in influenza. Where it is possible to secure a physician, this matter as
							well as other phases of treatment should be left entirely in his hands. For throat
							gargles, nose sprays, etc., we cannot do  better than
							refer to the prescriptions recommended for the treatment of colds. (See pages 57, 86,
								89, 99.)

						In severe attacks of the grippe accompanied by unusual headache and great pain, use
							the foregoing treatments; remember also that considerable relief is usually obtained
							from the use of aspirin, given in five-grain doses, every five hours for the first two
							or three days. It is not advisable to keep up the use of this medicine longer in
							ordinary cases.

						7. Convalescence. Too much emphasis cannot be laid upon the
							necessity of staying in bed with the grippe until one is entirely well. Do not make
							the fatal mistake of getting up too soon. Time and money will be saved by taking two
							or three weeks, if necessary, to get well. Don't go back to work, or about your duties
							until you feel quite strong. It is a fatal mistake to undertake one's regular work
							while one is still weak and wabbly from an attack of the grippe. Such presumption is
							likely to be rewarded later with attacks of nervous disorders, kidney trouble, and
							even heart difficulties.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER IX CHRONIC CATARRH AND COUGHS

					 CHRONIC NASAL CATARRH.--
							PATENT MEDICINES AND DRUGS.-- THE CAUSE AND CURE OF COUGHS.-- HAY FEVER.

					REPEATED colds, influenza, grippe, etc., among other legacies and
						after-effects, not infrequently bequeath to their victims a chronic nasal catarrh or a
						persistent and troublesome cough that hangs on indefinitely.

					
						CHRONIC NASAL CATARRH

						A fresh cold in the head may very properly be called an acute nasal catarrh. When
							these colds in the head follow one another in such rapid succession that a new cold
							appears on the scene before its victim has fully recovered from the preceding attack;
							when colds come so thick and fast that the individual is never without one; then we
							may look upon the condition as one of chronic nasal catarrh.

						

						The cause, then, of chronic catarrh is frequent and repeated attacks of acute
							catarrh-- colds in the head. The treatment of chronic catarrh is simply the prevention
							and cure of common colds. The reader is referred to the chapters devoted to the cure
							of colds, especially to the advice given respecting the treatment of the second or
							moist stage of colds.

						In the treatment of chronic nasal catarrh, every effort should be put forth to
							cultivate the general health and increase the vital resistance. Careful attention to
							the stomach and bowels, hot and cold baths for the promotion of the skin circulation,
							deep-breathing exercises, abundant water drinking, the outdoor life-- plenty of fresh
							air and sunshine, together with proper physical exercise-- are all concerned in the
							successful treatment and permanent cure of catarrh. Of course, it is equally necessary
							that the nose and throat should be carefully examined, and that all abnormalities
							there found, be removed or corrected. Any method of treatment or mode of living that
							will enable one to rise above common colds, will eventually effect his deliverance
							from chronic catarrh.

						

						There is a stage of chronic catarrh known as ozena, more
							particularly affecting young men and women, which is characterized by an
							extraordinarily dry state of the nostrils. This condition is usually preceded by
							several years of chronic catarrh accompanied by a profuse and purulent discharge.
							Ozena is characterized by an extraordinarily foul and offensive breath-- sometimes so
							bad as to fill the whole room with its odor. Large crusts form in the nose and the
							condition is altogether distressing and embarrassing. It is best treated by means of
							alternating hot and cold douching with some antiseptic and alkaline solution. A good
							solution for this purpose can be made by taking equal parts of common table salt,
							sodium borate, and sodium bicarbonate. Thoroughly mix these three salts and then use
							one teaspoonful of this powder to a pint of water.
					

					
						PATENT MEDICINES AND DRUGS

						We desire to emphasize the uselessness and harmfulness of the vast number of catarrh
							cures, cough mixtures, and other patent medicines, in the treatment of colds and
							catarrh.

						

						Let us express a warning against the so-called cold cures, quinine and whiskey, and
							acetanilide, and other coal-tar preparations. While these medicines may sometimes mask
							the symptoms and afford temporary relief, it is always at the expense of future
							recurrence and increased debility, with lowered resistance on the part of the body.
							Colds and catarrhs simply concern the circulation of the blood, the accumulation of
							poisons within the body, and germs; and as means of their relief and management, drugs
							are quite useless, except in the form of throat gargles, cathartics, and local
							applications to the nose. Quinine and similar drugs check the oxidation or burning up
							of poisons in the body, depress the circulation, lower the temperature, lessen
							perspiration, and diminish the activity of the white blood-cells in their work of
							destroying the infectious germs.

						There are numerous complications and situations connected with the treatment of
							colds, which may often lead the family physician to prescribe certain useful
							medicines. We are not in any way agitating against the scientific  use of drugs. It is the "patent medicines," "cold cures," "catarrh cures,"
							and other nostrums, sold over the counter of the drug-store, that we are decrying.
							When you take medicine in any form, have your doctor prescribe it for you, and not a
							druggist.

						There is no sure preventive of colds. The best of us will have an attack now and
							then. Our purpose in this little volume is to point out the causes which lead up to
							colds, to urge their prevention, and to offer practical suggestions for their
							treatment.
					

					
						THE CAUSE AND CURE OF COUGHS

						Coughs are a distressing accompaniment of many colds, especially when they have a
							tendency to settle upon the lungs. Coughing is a symptom of many and varied conditions
							which may affect the throat and lungs, and may be one of the symptoms of such grave
							diseases as bronchitis, pleurisy, pneumonia, or even tuberculosis. Whooping-cough is
							so well-known from its characteristic whoop that there is little
							danger of confusing it with coughs due to other causes.

						

						There are numerous causes, outside of the throat and lungs, which may be responsible
							for an acute or chronic cough. Hardened wax in the ear often produces coughs in
							children, as well as dizziness in adults. An elongated or relaxed uvula may also be
							responsible for spasmodic coughing. Other common conditions responsible for chronic
							coughing are constipation, intestinal worms, dyspepsia, and liver disorders. Coughing
							is also often associated with the excessive drinking of alcoholic liquors.

						Coughing frequently follows attacks of the grippe, and if it is long persistent, it
							becomes a serious symptom indicating general debility. In children, persistent
							coughing is frequently associated with adenoids and enlarged tonsils. It cannot be
							denied that "suggestion," that is, the state of the mind, may have .much to do with
							perpetuating a tendency to cough. If we hear a person cough, we ourselves almost
							instinctively have a desire to cough. It has been found that the victims of chronic
							coughs are able to exercise considerable control over this affection by the direct
							exertion of their own wills; that is, if one makes up his mind to  stop coughing, his determination proves to be of great assistance in
							overcoming even the most troublesome and chronic coughs.

						If the lungs are producing large quantities of mucus or muco-purulent matter, the
							cough should be welcomed. Productive coughs serve a useful purpose in nature's efforts
							to recover from various diseases affecting the lungs. The objectionable coughs, which
							we especially desire to treat and cure, are the dry, hacking, unproductive coughs.
							Coughing is frequently controlled by steam inhalation, or by breathing the fumes
							arising from a small basin of boiling-hot water to which one-half teaspoonful of,
							compound tincture of benzoin has been added.

						A good prescription for persistent and troublesome tight coughing, is the following:
								
								Potassium iodide 10 grains
								Potassium citrate 5 drachm
								Potassium acetate 5 drachm
								Water 4 ounces.
							 Mix and label: Take one teaspoonful in a half-cup of water once an hour until
							the cough is loosened.

						

						Hot and cold sponging of the chest, the wearing of the throat compress as described
							on page 91, or the wearing of the chest pack
							as suggested for colds on the lungs (see page 103), are all exceedingly useful in the control and cure of
							chronic coughs.

						The following compound will be found of special value in relieving cough in infants
							or young children:

						Steep two tablespoonfuls of flax-seed in a small quantity of water. Flavor with the
							juice of one lemon, and sweeten with a little rock candy. The mixture when finished
							should be of creamy consistency.
					

					
						HAY-FEVER

						Hay-fever is a troublesome affection of the respiratory mucous membrane due to the
							inhalation of the pollen from numerous plants, such as the rag-weed. Hay-fever may
							also be caused by inhalation of the odors arising from various animals. There really
							seems to be a true and a false hay-fever, the true hay-fever being produced alone by
							the inhalation  of pollen; while false hay-fever er may
							be produced by certain diseases, deformities, and irritations of the nasal mucous
							membrane. 

						One thing seems quite certain. Nearly all victims of hay-fever are more or less neurotic; that is, the nervous system is more or less lowered in tone
							or otherwise weakened. In some highly nervous individuals, it may even be possible
							that the imagination plays a considerable part in many-of their attacks of sneezing,
							and other hay-fever manifestations.

						All efforts directed toward the prevention of hay-fever should make provision for the
							thorough-going treatment of the nervous system, improvement of the digestion, and the
							relief of any irritating or inflammatory disease of the nose and throat. Crooked nasal
							septums, enlarged turbinates, etc., should be thoroughly corrected before the approach
							of the hay-fever season. (See Fig. 1.)

						In recent years, a hay-fever serum has been developed, but its use has not proven
							altogether satisfactory. In spite of all that can be done, some sufferers from this
							annoying malady are unable to gain relief except by a journey to  some special climate, notably some of the Eastern mountains, or the shores
							of Lake Superior or Lake Huron.

						Sometimes, by the use of some simple smelling salts, hay-fever attacks may be
							aborted, or greatly lessened in severity. A useful smelling salt for this purpose is
							the following: 
								Carbolic acid 30 drops
								Ammonium carbonate 1 ounce
								Charcoal powder 1 ounce
								Lavender oil 20 drops
								Comp. tincture of benzoin 1/2 ounce.
							
						

						Other disorders of the respiratory apparatus frequently associated with hay-fever,
							such as asthma, etc., should always receive the attention of a competent physician. In
							fact, the majority of conditions treated in this volume demand medical attention; and
							this book has not been written with the thought of displacing the advice and counsel
							of the family physician, but rather to supplement it-- to serve as a guide book to the
							patient in effectually and successfully carrying out the orders of his medical
							adviser.

						
					
				
			
		

	
