
     ----CITATION---- 
        Halstead, William Riley, 1848-1931.. Life on a backwoods farm. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1821
   
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
        
          


   
      
         A JACK-OAK STRUCTURE.
      
   








   
Life on a
                       Backwoods Farm
   
   OR
      
      THE BOYHOOD OF
      REUBEN RODNEY BLANNERHASSETT
   


   
   BY
      WILLIAM RILEY HALSTEAD

   
      CINCINNATI: JENNINGS & PYE
NEW YORK: EATON & MAINS
            


           
           




   COPYRIGHT
   BY CRANSTON & CURTS,
   1894.







   PREFACE.
   
   

THIS book is in no sense personal history.
    Its intent is to be true to life, rather than
fact. The imagination is at play, therefore; but
not as in works of morbid sensational fiction.
It is the more wholesome imagination possessed
by the plowman, and the well-digger, and the
blacksmith, and the uncultured huntsman.

   The author, of necessity, leaves the merits of
the volume to the estimate to be placed upon it
by its readers; but he may safely say of -it, that
it is not imitative. There is no other book like
it. Its method is its own; but as to that, the
author has thoroughly tested it in public utter-
ance, and he trusts it will not fail him in the
printed page.



   As it is not a learned book, the scholars will
have no recognition. It is not a novel. It is
not a story. There is no attempt at coherence
of time or place. It is incident without a
plot--a simple medley of country tales. Rodney
is, at least, not an impossible boy. The
tales he spins are supposed to be a few of the
things that touched his life to make him what
he was--manly, strong, honest--and they are the
things that touch every life. The waves of little
events are thrown up against a boy's spirit, and
he tells you how he felt and what he thought
about them. The contention is, that everything
has significance to the character. Please do
not ask of the things you find recorded here,
"Did that happen?" but ask, "Could that 
happen? and would it have the consequences put
down to it?'

   The artificial and the formal are abolished,
and we have gone out in the sun and open air,
among men and women who are strangers to
the delicacies of refined living, who are yet
rough and uncouth with the hardships of toil,
but who are intensely active, who have never
regretted being born, and who have never



thought of apologizing for the presumption of
being in the world.

    The output of American literature to this
 time has hardly been true to the American spirit
 and American conditions. To the extent that
 we write books like they do in Germany, or as
 we imitate the classics, we shall belong to the
 ancient school, and possess nothing on our own
 account. We shall be devoid of origination.
 The traditional in literature has certainly been
 sufficiently magnified. The power of the masters
 of the great past might well now become
 less, while we give a little more time and interest
 to that which is natural to us. Our literary
 plant will not abide unless it be indigenous to
 the soil. The better literary material for any
 people is not an import. Charles Dickens
 taught the English-speaking world that there is
 a never-ending supply of it in the manners and
 habits and lives of the common people.
   In the preparation of this work the author
has felt as if he were hacking a narrow roadway
through a vast forest. It may be the road will
get the forest settled.
   
                  WILLIAM RILEY HALSTEAD.
                  EVANSVILLE, INDIANA.


           
           
           

  

   CONTENTS.
   
   
   
   
      
      PAGE.
                  
CHAPTER I.
   CHILDHOOD AND COUNTRY LIFE,11

CHAPTER II.  
   I WAS BORN,18

CHAPTER III. 
   THE BLACK GOD,35
      

CHAPTER IV. 
   CRUELTY AND TREACHERY,42

CHAPTER V. 
   JOE CONEER, THE CRAZY MAN,56

CHAPTER VI. 
   JIM HANDY, THE VILLAIN,69
      
CHAPTER VII.
   REUBEN BLANNERHASSETT,88



CHAPTER VIII.                                       
   A BLACK WOLF,94

CHAPTER IX. 
   A PANTHER SKIN,1O6

CHAPTER X.
   WITCHES,121

CHAPTER XI.
   DANIEL AND THE GREAT DIPPER,132

CHAPTER XII. 
   ANIMAL CHARACTERISTICS,156

CHAPTER XIII. 
   FISHING SCRAPES,184

CHAPTER XIV. 
   "WILD OATS"--TWO CROPS,200

CHAPTER XV. 
   AN INDIAN LEGEND,213

CHAPTER XVI. 
   SUNSHINE,239




       



ILLUSTRATIONS.
        
     
   
 
   
   PAGE.

   "A JACK-OAK STRUCTURE,"Frontispiece.

   "BLACK ME, THEN!"37

   "HERE YOU GO, NOW,"51

   "I WANTED TO KILL OLD JIM,"86

   A NINE-MILE CHASE,1O1

   RODNEY AND DANIEL,145

   BREASTWORKS NEXT TO THE ENEMY,166

   EMPEROR AND KING LEAR,179

   A HUNDRED POUNDS OF BLACK BASS,192 

   "WE PUT CHIPS ON HIS EYES,"206

   THE WIGWAM OF LENA AND NEMO,224

 




           
         
 
       
          
                   
             

LIFE ON A BACKWOODS FARM.
             
         
      

      CHAPTER I.

      CHILDHOOD AND COUNTRY LIFE.

                     
         
         "Away away, from men and towns,
         To the wild wood and the downs--
         To the silent wilderness,
         Where the soul need not repress
         Its music, lest it should not find
         An echo in another's mind,
         While the touch of nature's art
         Harmonizes heart to heart."
           -SHELLEY.
         

MY name is Reuben Rodney Blannerhassett.
I tell you that now, so you will know who
I am. And I want to say a thing or two before
I begin. I doubt if the world has ever made
due estimate of the earlier years of the personal
life. Some one has said that the charac-
ter is usually fixed at twelve. After this, it is
                                  


true, there are remarkable changes and transformations;
but by this time the formative work
has been largely done. I believe this position
to be sound, so this record will close before I
am grown. I shall not tell you of greatness,
but of boyhood. That is all. That is enough.
I have no deep-laid purpose to afflict you with
any special theories of life, or of religion, or of
politics. I shall hide nothing, extenuate nothing,
and when I get through I will stop.
   The little incidents of childhood are among
the greatest of all events in the formation of the
character. The child mind and heart are 
unreservedly open and receptive to all influences.
It has but small capacity to shut down the
gates against anything. Impressions are received
as they come. All things are realistic.
Early experiences are more completely thrown
into one's being. They are the larger forces in
making us what we are. The past is not gone.
It is present, and is being reproduced with each
successive moment. It is a law of the physical
world that nothing is lost. All forces are 
conserved. If the events of childhood were only
memories, they would be no more than idle
tales, fit only to amuse and entertain. They are
present realities. Each small event leaves its
impress and becomes a part of the character.



The essence and the meaning of things we possess
to-day. We can not escape the least incident;
and we are either wiser or worse because
of it. It speaks to the world in whatever it has
helped to make us. That an influence is small,
does not signify that it is not real.
   It is with man as with nature. The chemistries
of the soil and the sky are carried up into
the plant, and are not lost but reproduced. The
vegetable mold, with its forces and laws, is
reproduced in the animal kingdom. So the
animal life is reproduced in man, and enthroned
with reason. The human spirit is a reservoir of
storages and reproductions. The personal present
is simply the full expression of the past.
What we are to-day is a recapitulation of what
we have gone over and known. Why should
we have memory? Why should we linger over
the past? Why do we like to think of childhood
joys and sorrows? Why do we cherish
the simple days when we put our little faces between
our mother's knees and cried our discontent
into refreshment? Why do we linger in
delight over the barefooted tramps, the journeys
to kinsfolk, and the school-day sports? Because
the whole of all that was ever real of this is
stored in us.
   These things are a part of ourselves. We



can not escape them. They have had vitally to
do in making us what we are. The flying years
give us a sight of ourselves; and we see what
they have done. An old man delights to entertain
you with his childhood; and in so doing,
he is simply bringing the record up to date.
The fulfillment of more than he will ever tell
you is there before you. So the past, not in its
incidental and surface form, but in its essential
value, is being constantly restored and reproduced.
God finally weaves all the raveled ends
into the fabric. The time of the restitution of
all things is now.
   You start up a mountain road. The first day
the flowers are in bloom at the base. The next
day the sun brings out the same bloom on the
next altitude, and the next the same; and
after you have reached the summit, and look
back, a great scene is before you. But more
than this, that journey has become permanently
a part of you. The road, the flowers, the
rugged rocks, the cascades, the trees, the cloudburst,
with every vision of your eye,--all this has
become a part of you never to be effaced. That
picture, finer than human artist could furnish
for a mint of gold, is yours forever. You return
to the valley, you cross the seas, you live half a
century, but that mountain scene, sunshine and



all, has been ineffacebly placed on the canvas of
your soul. That mountain did not absorb you;
you absorbed the mountain. It will add richness
to your spirit in eternity. In this way we
take up and retain the essence of things, great
and small, as we go. This is not because we will,
but whether we will or no. It is not a question
of preference. This law of human life would
be fearful indeed were it not for the fact that
the human personality is greater than all events.
They shall not take the personality up into
themselves. Time shall not, death shall not,
eternity shall not; for the personality shall survive
eternity. Only it will be influenced in one
way or another by all its events, either in time
or in eternity.
   It is in this sense that the records of my boyhood
days are not trivial affairs; because they
are the things that have entered my life.
They are the lessons God and nature and childhood
brought me. Only in the smallest degree
am I responsible for them. God himself would
not deal justly with me if he did not take these
things into the final adjudication.

   Fifty years in this country measures a swift
progress from savage wildness in a wilderness
to the highest forms of civilization and culture.



Within this limit, the uncouth and hard-handed
pioneer has given way to the dweller in a palace.
To children now accustomed to our delicate
ways of living, the experiences of our older
people are like myths. They wonder how such
things could have been. What wildness then,
what freedom of spirit, what brusque independence
of character, born of the solitariness of
sparse populations and of a single-handed
struggle with nature.
   The heroic element, then, had larger cultivation
in the excitements of the chase, in Indian
wars, and in the absence of many of the wholesome
civil regulations which now settle disputed
questions between man and man. But is it not
true that the thousand and one forces that
influenced the human spirit in this semi-civilized
state, contributed in a very significant way to
the development of the stronger features of the
American character? Are not the destinies usually
settled for a race before it comes into real
refinement? Refinement has its luxuries and
its advantages, and it has its enervations also.
The personal life in any pioneer time is usually
a case of the survival of the fittest. When
houses are poor, and clothing is scant, and food
is of little variety and ill-prepared, the chances
are against any born child coming to maturity.



Those who do make the riffle are likely to possess
remarkable force and vigor. On the other
hand, crowded populations hamper the spirit.
They afford fewer chances for original growth.
The city produces men. The country produces
a man. But the child needs for companionship
something more than human beings about it.
It needs the fields, and trees, and rocks, and
rivers, and birds, and animals tame and wild.
The growing mind needs time and a chance to
vegetate. The body needs free air for expansion.
The typical New Yorker to-day is nearly
an eighth smaller than the Middle Western State
man.   He is brighter mentally, but not so
strong. The poverty and the hardships of a
primitive country life are not calamities in the
long run.
   The Jacksons and the Lincolns and the Garfields
and the Grants grew up under conditions
greatly deflected from modern childhood; yet
they survived all hindrances and disgraces, and
came to significance. They came out of them
in the sense that these limitations of opportunity
were the making of their spirits. They
grew out of them in the sense that we may not
see their like again in manly force and greatness.
   The contributions of country life to national
progress is one of the significant lessons of the
  


time. The gift of leaders from the rural regions
has been of inestimable value to the Nation.
Rough-handed countrymen led in the War of the
Revolution and in placing the foundations of the
Republic. Washington and Adams and Jefferson
were country born. Andrew Jackson loved the
Hermitage more than any other place, because
it expressed the conditions and the best forces
of his child-life, and added to them all the more
desirable advantages of country living.
  Cities to-day, as compared with the country,
hold primacy of influence, but they do it
through fresh infusions from country blood.
I The advantages to child-life in the country, as
compared with the city, are very greatly superior.
To have been a country bumpkin is a great
investment. Not in polish, not in culture as we
ordinarily understand it; not in the fineries of life,
but in the broad acquisitions of physical and
intellectual brawn, and in the higher moral and
spiritual possibilities which God and nature can
put into a man when they have him to themselves
during the years of his childhood. A boy
does not grow by being put into a stretcher.
Furnish him good victuals, and he will look after
that thing himself. The greatest and most virile
forces in the personal character are not
ground in by human attrition. They grow;



and for such growths there must be time for rumination.
When you tell a boy to "go to grass,"
you advise one of the greatest things for his
spirit. A boy follows not lines of thought, but
lines of life. He is engaged not in mental but
in heart questoning, and he gets answers that he
knows not of, and will not until he reaches the celestial
kingdom. A thousand unsuspected voices
in the country call the soul to the companionship
of spiritual things. The waters, the teeming
soil, the dew, the rainfall, the storm-cloud and
the lightning, the hushed breathing of all life,
the cherishing warmth of the rising sun, the
cold Platonic friendship of the stars,--these forbid
idolatry. They do not invite worship of
themselves. They lead to life, and to sympathy,
and to God.

             


     
   

      CHAPTER II.

      I WAS BORN.


       
          "Up! up, my friend! and quit your books,
          Or surely you'll grow double:
        Up! up, my friend! and clear your looks;
          Why all this toil and trouble?
        One impulse from a vernal wood
          May teach you more of man,
        Of moral evil and of good,
          Than all the sages can."
         -WORDSWORTH.



DID you ever smell newly-plowed ground?
    Pity for the nostrils that never caught the
aroma of such a field! Did you ever taste the
breath of a May morning as you waded in the
grass till you were wet to your neck? Were
you ever in the open and fruitful fields at daybreak
in the summer-time, and to remain there
till dark, to see just how long a day in the country
is? You city folks, you get up so late, you
do not know how early the sun rises to kiss the
     


brow of the morning, and to clothe his child the
day, and get it ready for its work. Sunrise in
the country sets the throats of the songsters to
going; and takes the covering of the night from
the flowers; and has everything ready for your
admiration long before you are awake. There
is a breath of lengthened life each morning between
daylight and sun-up, but it never comes
indoors. It was never known to break a lock,
or blow out a smudging night-lamp, or pull a
blanket from the nose of a drowsy sleeper.
   Did you ever walk through the fields and
pluck clover-blossoms for your mouth; and did
you ever find a honey-bee in the meshes? Did
you ever swim in the creek until your back was
blistered in the sun? Did you ever eat persimmons
before frost? Did you ever get as many
black haws as you could eat? Did you ever
bet six tobacco marbles with your neighbor's second
boy that you could eat more green apples
than he could--worms and all? Did you ever
follow an A harrow all day barefooted, with a
stone-bruise on your heel? Did you ever have
to hold a skein of yarn while your grandmother
wound it off of you on to the ball? Did you
ever have to go to bed while you had your pants
patched? Did you ever wear just one suspender
one whole summer? Did you ever try to drive



thirteen pigs out of a cornfield when they did
not want to go? Did you ever hive bumble-bees
in a jug? Did you ever plug up the hole in a
hornet's nest with a corn-cob? If you never
did, you do n't know very much about life in
the backwoods.

   I wonder that I did not die when I was a
baby. I never expected to live to be a man;
but now, since I am through with it, things do
not seem so bad. There is, after all, an element
of delightfulness about hardship, but only after
you get by it for a time. This is so, I suppose,
because the higher reason of it does not appear
while passing through it. In the midst of hardship
or sorrow, we are too close to understand.
After ten or twenty years we see things in perspective.
We have no place for sorrows while
we are in them; but they pass by and we remain;
and God shows them to us afterwards in
such splendid relief that we not unwillingly
read into them our life lessons. We endure the
stints of poverty, we suffer and groan and weep,
and afterwards laughter breaks through our
tears.

   I was born on a bleak, blustery night in 
March, in the year eighteen hundred and--no
      
  
      
matter when. I have no personal recollection
of the event, anyway. Having certain reasons
for beginning thus, I simply vouch for the fact
that I was born, and that is sufficient for all the
purposes of these narratives. Dates are sometimes
embarrasing.
      
    Our cabin stood on a cleared knoll of four
acres, just west of a town called Hazelgreen.
The prairie skirted us to the south, coming
up to the foot of the knoll like the arm of a
great sea, and opening to the eye a stretch of
vision for more than twenty miles, with only an
occasional tree to break the view. There was
heavy timber on the east, and also on the west,
following the bed of Honey Creek to the Wabash
fifteen miles away. To the north, the timber,
except an occasional break made by a
small clearing, extended forty miles, with only
blazed paths, and narrow, rugged roadways
through it. It was a wilderness vaster than
the prairie south of us. The Indians, as a
body, had fled before the approach of the pale
face, and had left him in peaceable possession of
a heritage of unmeasured riches. It was no uncommon
thing, however, for an aged, wandering
red-skin to return to these the hunting grounds
of his youth, as if it had gone from his memory
that the white man had taken it from him; and



he would only appear to come to a realization
of the fact when he would approach the cabins
and clearings; and then, in a lonesome way, turn
into the woods and be gone. What strange beings
these old Indians were! How silent and
mysterious their movements! They seemed as
if they were dying broken-hearted that the richest
hunting-grounds they ever knew were
wrested from them forever. A lone Indian was
known to the settlers to be harmless.
   The Delawares were most acquainted with
this region, and a number of their older men
were rather familiar objects to the settlers.
Their returning became finally the occasion of
a tragedy. In cold blood four of them were
killed in the space of a month; and it provoked
threatenings of a general massacre from the Delaware
tribe. It was a cowardly deed, evidently
perpetrated by some white man for revenge, or
from natural hate.
   The Delawares were promised full redress, if
the guilty party could be found. The settlers
finally fixed on a comer from the south, who
had furnished them with a two-sided clew
against himself. One was the statement that
his family had been the victims of Indian
treachery; and the other the unwary statement
that whenever he saw an Indian, he shut one



eye, and they never met again. This man, John
Gleaso, shortly afterward disappeared. What
became of him, no one ever knew certainly. It
was said by the knowing ones that he was spotted
to the Delawares, and they did the rest.

   Hazelgreen consisted at first of one shanty,
in which lived one man and one woman. These
two were the joint owners of a barrel of whisky
and a milch-cow. In this family life--or partnership
arrangement, I do not know which--the
woman managed the whisky, and the man the
cow. This sort of division of the labor may
have been for the reason that if the man should
manage the whisky, he would drink up all the
profits. The more satisfactory explanation is,
that the woman was the man of the house.
This man did chores and small jobs. After a
time there was added to this first essential equipment
of a trading post in a new country, a
small stock of groceries, to supply the little necessities
of the settlers.
   This re-enforcement of stock was never more
than a makeshift--a sort of bait and blind to
draw trade to the liquor business. Hazelgreen
began as a whisky town, it lived as a whisky
town, it died as a whisky town. Whisky selling
was always the uppermost business in it.



So it did quite an amount to blast and damn the
community.

  Our cabin was a jack-oak structure, sixteen
by eighteen, with a seven-foot ceiling. It had
white-oak chink-timber--the heart pieces of a
board tree. It was daubed with yellow clay,
mixed without lime; and the mortar was put on
in such profuse fashion, that the clay filling the
bark of the jack-oak logs gave it a most grotesque
appearance. The gables were of like material
with the walls, the logs being sloped at the ends,
and each one made shorter so as to receive the
roof-poles and make the slant. The roof-poles
reached the length of the roof, and answered
the double purpose of rafter and sheeting to receive
the four-foot clapboards. On the top of
these boards were laid other roof-poles, withed
to those underneath at the ends--this to hold
the boards in place. It was a roof made without
nails or stroke of hammer. There were two
doors, each made of fourteen-inch poplar-plank
which had been cut with a whip-saw. Each
door was made of two planks, battened and hung
on wooden hinges. The memory of those
hinges makes my flesh creep to this day. Of all
the noises in this time of strange noises, these
hinges made the worst. It did not seem to occur



to any one to oil or soap them, and give the
community rest from the discordant thing.
The fireplace had a base of these jack-oak logs,
split in halves, and notched into a frame to hold
in place the sandstone rock that made the sides
and back-jam of the six-foot fireplace. The
chimney was made of lath and mortar. It was
made wide, so that one could sit by the fire and
look out at the top of the chimney into the top
of a tree that stood near. In this fireplace
there was ample space for cooking. The fire
had to make its own way against the rain, and,
of course, the smoke could depart at leisure.
This arrangement also answered the purpose ot
a window in the daytime. The yellow clay mortar
on the lath was constantly washing off, and
it was a frequent thing for the chimney to take
fire and burn down a foot or so before it was
discovered. The water-bucket was kept on a
bench inside near the door, and a woman could
throw water to the top, and put it out.
   Our cabin met the conditions of inside and
outside harmony. The ashen floor was always
clean and white; for my mother was as fit for a
palace as for a cabin. The flat rock hearth was
not very elegantly laid. In the fireplace was
the swinging crane, that, like Pluto, lived in the
middle of the flame. There was the great iron



pot in the corner, which was filled at least once
a week with ham, or sirloin of venison. In the
corner next the fireplace were seven shelves,
held by wooden pins in the logs. Over these
hung a flax cloth. These shelves held the table
outfit--six pewter plates, with as many knives
and forks; a wooden tray for bread; a Plymouth
Rock meat-dish; a sugar-bowl of china, the
priceless heirloom of some high Scotch ancestry,
the pedigree to which was lost before I was
born; three coffee-cups, with saucers; two ancient
silver spoons, and three brass ones. These
shelves were made for this table equipment, and
nothing else was allowed on them.
   In the corner next to the cupboard was a
frying-pan, with a handle six feet long. In that
long-handled frying-pan was put the venison-
steak for breakfast; and as soon as it was made
brown and fine over the fire, the steak was
turned into the platter; and after that, the same
pan received the buckwheat-batter. That is
why it is called buckwheat. Buckwheat-cakes,
venison-steak, and butter and wild honey!
What a breakfast! No table of royalty ever
had better.
   In another corner of this room was an improvised
bedstead, built into the walls by the
man who built the house. In the remaining



corner was the only piece of pretentious furniture
in the house--a black-walnut store bedstead,
with corner posts six by six by seven
feet high. This was a spare bed for the
stranger within our gates. I remember two
things about that bedstead. I was never
able to get in it without climbing the corner
post, till I was ten years old, and the
trundle-bed was underneath, and needed no
pulling out. 0 the memory of those trundle-
bed days! How we did sleep then! We really
went to sleep! We stayed there till morning!
We snored away the nights in sweet oblivion of
the world's carking cares. A  healthy boy
asleep in a trundle-bed, in a cabin, on a winter
night, is happiness complete! No period along
the long lonesome years will be richer in pleasure.
Search for perfect hygienic conditions, and
it is there. Ask for a prophecy of greatness in
mind or body, and it is there. We now live in
palaces. We are wrapped in fine linen. On
cushioned couches we lie awake through the
long hours of the night, and think, and think,
and are unable to lay down the burdens of the
day. The floodgates of the mind are open, and
they refuse to be closed.
   O, my weary soul, comfort yourself in these
glorious days of a barefooted paradise, followed



by nights of slumber in the old-fashioned trundle-bed!
The world is now running at high
pressure. The springs of life are all in tension.
This hot and restless age is burning the life out
of souls. It puts them under the whip and
into the ceaseless grind of destiny. Thousands
wish they had never been born. No boy in a
trundle-bed ever waked up to wish that. Civilization
has its disadvantages.
   But as I was about to tell you, on this bleak,
howling night in March I came into this world.
I had no expectations about that event of course.
As well as I remember, the flicker of the firelight
hurt my eyes. The tallow candle was
smudging on the shelf. My grandmother was
too fussy by half. I had some difficulty with my
nose getting it started. And I had an indistinct
impression that I had come into a flannelly sort
of a world.
   My principal nurse was an old maid. This
old maid did not understand me at all; and she
came very near bringing me to an untimely end.
I was wrapped in cushions and feathers so deep
I could hardly get my breath. I had on, to
start with, two flannel binders and one linen
binder full of stickers; and over these a little
white shirt, and over this two flannel petticoats,
and over all this a dress longer than the



moral law. My lungs would not act. My
stomach was so wrapped with the bandages that
I threw up everything they poured down me.
There was no room inside for anything. I
cried, of course, nearly all the time. This old
maid, Nancy Perkins, thought I had the colic,
and that my stomach must be out of fix. So it
was. It was cramped. It was collapsed by
outside pressure. She kept the room very dark.
She kept my head covered up, except when she
would lift the cover off for a minute to see if I
was dead. Then I would get a fresh breath,
and get one delightful snap at the sunlight.
She stuffed me with gruel and milk-toddy. O
that toddy--that infernal toddy! It made my
brain reel. It made me drunk. It grafted into
my flesh the alcoholic life that I have had to
fight all my days. I love liquor now better
than bread. I dare not touch it. I do not keep
it about me. So I say I was abused. I was
sinned against through the ignorance of an old
maid, who ought to have been better endowed.
A new-born baby has a right to a fair chance.
Give that baby some fresh air. Give it sunlight.
Let it have an opportunity to fight that
ghost of a baby's life, "the thing to do."
   My mother was proud of me. She laughed
at me through her tears. This was in the day



when motherhood in honorable wedlock, with
all women, was a glory. Her womanly instincts
were too strong, and her conscience too quick, to
take my life before I was born. She was willing
to reach out into the dark and struggle with
God for a life.
   My name was put on me next morning. I
was named after my grandfathers on both sides.
One was a Yankee, who came to Indiana by an
Indian trail; and the other was a Scotchman,
who had called his braes on the Highlands. The
fact that I received my name so soon means
that I was regarded only with the ordinary affection
of matter-of-fact parents. They were
not silly over me; to which, if they had been
inclined, they had no time. The English language
is hardly equal to the naming of the most
ordinary baby in these times.  Parents put it
off for months for fear some mistake will be
made. Then there are so many silly names
now. Reuben Rodney--there is some strength
in that. A name is either a help or a hindrance
to character. It does not make or break, but it
helps or hinders. Great men have been sent to
the limbo of oblivion, simply because the public
could never learn their names. If there be
as much expression and meaning in the higher
harmonies as the musicians say, there must be



something in the vocal effects of a name. I
was always satisfied with my name. It was a
little too heavy for the first five years; but after
that it became more and more serviceable. Any
child of which anything is expected ought to
have a full-grown name. It has a right to this,
and it is grievously sinned against if it does not
get it.
   I was not rocked in a sugar-trough. I was
pinned up in a pillow, and laid in the rocking-
chair. And this very thing came very near
being the end of me. Uncle Linus Hickum
came over one day, and being near-sighted he
was about to take my chair; when mother threw
a spoon at him, and Nancy Perkins yanked him
into the corner so vigorously that he stepped on
the side of the frying pan, and the handle flew
up and whacked him on the head. Uncle Linus
did not understand this, and he did not wait for
an explanation. He went out of the house fighting
mad. He regarded it as a premeditated and
unprovoked attack on him. When there are
blind people in the neighborhood, never put the
baby in the rocking-chair.
   When I was three years old I was full size,
and had come to dexterous use of my legs and
hands and tongue. My senses were all alert,
and I received many strange and curious impressions.
                     


As all children do, I lived in a realistic
world. What succession of unreal appearances!
What fascination by the incomprehensible!
What strange impressions were made by the
powerful and vast forces in both nature and life!
What a time for spontaneous belief! I was not
able to veil my thoughts from the barnyard
animals.  They would interpret my purposes
and thwart my plans. There was one cow in
the wood lot whose features were very much like
Nancy Perkins's, and this cow could tell what I
was thinking about whenever she saw me.
Many a time I have kept out of her sight to
keep her from knowing what I intended to do.
One day I found the forearm, carpal, metacarpal,
and phalanges bones of a human skeleton in a
box under the edge of the bed. This, I learned
afterward, was the property of an uncle, who
was then a student of medicine. These bones
attracted me; but I could hold them but a minute
till the fingers would begin to move, and
they would keep it up till I would lay them
down. A score of times I tried this, and with
no more success at the last than the first. I
saw the movement of those fingers as if living,
plainly as I ever saw anything.
   One evening, as the sun had gone behind
the trees in the west, I was sitting on father's



knee in the doorway. In those cabin times it
was a common thing to sit in the door, and look
out on the beauty of nature at nightfall. To-day
people shut out nature, and feast on works of art
on the inside. There is not much inside beauty
in a cabin, but nature had as many charms for
the soul then as now. Along the covert of the
bushes and the pasture-fence our chickens were
feeding, and a flock of crows were there, hopping
on the ground and from stake to stake.
   Father said: "Look there, Rodney; our
chickens are turning to crows."
   So it was then to me.  One after another
the chickens would fly a few feet from the
ground, turn black and fly away. Nothing
clearer as a matter of sensuous evidence ever
appeared to me.
   I attributed volition to the bending to and
fro of the trees in the wind. I endowed all nature,
not only with life, but with feeling and
thought and purpose. I did this without knowing
what I was doing. I did not know at all
that I was separate and distinct from the stones
and birds and trees. It was a mythological age
to me.   I was a small-sized idolater. Bishop
Taylor says that the children of Africa are not
born heathen. Children are born that in America.
Civilization is not hereditary with the 



individual. Every Saxon scion is born a raw
heathen. He is a little ignoramus, with a few
instincts and nerve-centers, and with an original
equipment of truth nothing in- advance of the
pickaninnies of Africa. His first look around
the room is a universe of exploration. He has
intimations of spiritual truth, but they do not
come to consciousness straightway. The things
his senses take in, and the meanings he first gets,
are the prophecies of truth farther ahead. His
first impressions of the world are largely misleading.
The views of a child are taken as
from a telescope with an unsettled surface
ground, and he gets a blurred image. But the
child as a knowledge-gatherer has almost infinite
possibilities. We are great blunderers here.
We grope our way through mazes of phenomena
from which no absolute truth can be taken, because
absolute truth is never known except by
authority, or through knowledge of all relationships.
We live in a shadow-land. We see
parts of nature's meaning. We are never more
than a handbreadth from intolerable mystery.
But we grow. We feed on the truth. It is the
essence of our immortality. The future is an
open highway.






   "BLACK ME, THEN."

      
   
   


      

         CHAPTER III.

         THE BLACK GOD.

      
         
         "A thousand volumes in a thousand tongues
         Enshrine the lessons of experience."
         
                               --M. F. TUPPER.
            

THE age of swiftest acquisition for a boy is
     at about five. He is then a wholesale gatherer
of facts. He is a living interrogation point.
He is then the butt of jokes, and most frequently
a general nuisance. He is too small to spank,
and just won't mind. He is heedless of the
things you tell him. He never knows that the
corner of the table is sharp or that the poker is
hot. Hie never thinks to take care of his fingers
when he shuts the door. He never goes
around a mud-puddle in the yard. He gets
flogged by the turkey-gobbler, and a thousand
like things happen him. A boy suffers too
much from not knowing anything, from five to
                                       


six, to have much of a good time. He does not
eat his white bread just then.
   The element of distrust also is frequently
driven into the child-life, like a prod of cold
steel.. It always hurts. It sometimes kills. It
is an intense pain to a child to discover the
treachery of the world.
   In our neighborhood there lived one Negro.
Shalem was his name. He had no other that
any one knew. There was nothing more to it
fore or aft. He said that was all there was of it.
   Shalem had a wife and two small boys.
There was little disposition among the whites
to tolerate this crowd. Nigger equality was the
highest crime in the decalogue. Work was
scarce for Shalem. But he lived better on less
work than any one in the country. Father had
a coal-mine; and it was agreed that the coal-
mine was a suitable place for Shalem to work.
It suited his complexion. Shalem's two boys
were my first playmates. They were seven and
eight respectively, and I was five. To say that
these boys were black is a feeble expression.
They were like Brother Gardner's wife, "about
two shades darker than coal-tar." Their faces
glistened in the sun. To me, they were indescribably
interesting, because they were black
and I was white. Not knowing anything about



color or "previous condition of servitude," I was
open to all the influences that might come down
on me from these two boys.
   We had stabled our stick horses, one day, by
a burnt log in the clearing, and I asked them
what made them black.
   They answered that God did, and that all the
best people in the world were made black.
   "Nobody around here is black but you."
   "And nobody is first-class but us."
   "Are you better than anybody else?"
   "We are blacker and more beautiful; God is
a black man with curly hair."
   "How did God make you black?"
   "He took black off of a log like this, and
rubbed it on us; and we can black you with that
log, and make you look like us, .and you will be
ever so much finer."
   "Well, then, black me."
   No sooner said than done. They blacked
me, hands and face and neck and feet. The
charcoal, rubbed with coarse palms, brought the
blood from my face in a place or two; but it was
a case in which the end justified the means, and
I stood it without a cry.
   "Now," said Pogus, the older boy, "run
home and ask your mother if you are not a very
fine boy."



    I went home, but on the way I had a sort ot
 creepy feeling that it was not all right. Mother
 saw me coming, and took fright. I ran after
 her. She ran faster. I screamed and yelled.
 After her I went, through the house and around
 it, down by the garden gate and back again.
 She fairly flew. I flew after her, and also flew
 all to pieces. She did not appear to me to run,
 but to glide over the ground and through the
 doors. It seemed to me that if I did not catch
 her I would die. I have never since put forth
 more exertion in anything. Every emotion of
 which I was capable came to me each moment.
 I cried. My agony became too deep for tears.
 I ran. I stopped. I stamped my feet. I tore my
 hair. I ordered her to stop. I cried for father.
 I told the black God to stop her. Finally she
 went exhausted into a chair near the wash-
 bowl and towel. She washed me awhile, and
 then took fright again. I caught her, and held
 to her dress while she scoured the black off.
 Mother then saw she had gone too far with her
 part of the sport, and she crooned over me with
 gentle words; but the agony of the fright was
 still on me; ugly specters filled my brain; the
 world turned black; my mother's face turned
 black, and I was about to run from her, when
she caught me up and hid my face in her bosom,



and kept it there till I went to sleep. The
greatest issues of my life to-day will not have so
deep an influence on my nature as this little incident.
It affected me so profoundly that my
mental characteristics must in part be interpreted
by it. A flesh-wound will soon heal, and
only a flesh-scar remains. An overwrought
mental excitement leaves its mark to last forever.


      
      




   CHAPTER IV.

   CRUELTY AND TREACHERY.

       
       
                               "Not at once,
       In men or angels, the abhorrent plague
       Appeared in all its loathsomeness. But as
       In some fair virgin's bosom a small spot,
       As if a thorn had pricked the delicate skin,
       Rises and spreads an ever-fretting sore,
       Creeping from limb to limb, corrosive, foul,
       Until the miserable leper lives
       A dying life, and dies a living death:
       So there."
       
       --EDWARD HENRY BICKERSTETH.
       
   
THE summer following the episode with the
     darky boys, I had my first experience with
the real treachery of this old world. Nancy
Perkins, the old maid, liked our house when she
first came. She liked the work, she liked the
folks, she liked the baby. She soon concluded
to become a fixture in the family, and so she
staid year after year, and I never knew a time
    


when I did not know Nancy. She did her
work well, drew her pay, and was a kind soul
with all her finicky notions and fussiness. She
liked me, and never tired of telling of her success
with me the first few days of my life; when
the fact is, it is a wonder I did not die on her
hands. If I had died, the death would have been
attributed to a mysterious providence, and not
to Nancy; for she did her best with me, and
through this six years of my life her devotion
to me never relaxed. I suffered quite a good
deal because of her old maidishness; for her
prim notions of propriety did not fit me at all.
To fit a boy, the thing has to be cut to fit; and
a boy knows a misfit as soon as he sees it. My
mother did not turn my training over to Nancy,
however, and so I was not warped in that direction.
What an inheritance, that a child is born
to the care of its own mother! What a curse
must fall on any woman who relieves herself of
the care of her own children by turning them
over to hired nurses! She robs her own soul of
one of its highest opportunities, and commits a
multitude of other sins.
   Every now and then I would have quite a
time of it with Nancy; for I was not three years
old till I learned that she was not the boss or
me, and I always rebelled against any delegated



powers she claimed to have. When I was with
Nancy--that is, left to her keeping--I always
did as I pleased, except that of getting into
danger. Then she was not slow to use force;
and I was not slow to resent that sort of thing,
by kicking her shins and pounding her in the
face with my fists. She rather enjoyed my
spunk, and made it the occasion of investing
herself -with greater responsibility concerning
me. She was always as fussy as an old hen
with one chicken, doing clucking and scratching
enough for a brood of forty. I know I was
a joy to Nancy's life, and I know I did not
intend it. I liked her in spite of myself, but I
took all her devotedness as a matter of course.
   One day father came from the stable with
five kittens in a sack; and before I could empty
them out on the floor and take possession,
father said:
   "Hold on, Rodney; I have a job for you and
Nancy. You must take these kittens down to the
narrow bridge, and throw them in the canal.
Drowning is the easiest death, and we will
never be mean enough to take a sack of cats to
a neighbor's. What do you say, Nancy?"
   "All right" said Nancy. "They would soon
come to the house, and I am not going to have
them here."



   That afternoon we took the kittens and
started down the wood-road to the narrow
bridge, less than a half mile. The water in
which the kittens were to be drowned was that
of the Wabash and Erie Canal, one of the greatest
material enterprises in the history of the
State of Indiana. In fact, it was too great for
the State to complete, and it was given up, as a
public enterprise, before it was near finished.
After spending millions on it, the State gave it
into the hands of an English company, who took
it, with an enormous grant of land; and it was
finally completed. This canal extended from
Evansville, by way of Terre Haute and Lafayette;
to the Ohio line in the northern part of the
State. It was an heroic work for a pioneer age.
The whole Commonwealth had great expecta-
tion from it at one time, The ditch was dug;
the locks were made, many of them erected in
the finest masonry; and boats were running over
parts of the line,--and by the time all this was
done, it was about demonstrated that the railroad
was a feasible and possible thing for all
these States and Territories. The bottom did
not fall out of the canal, but, as a consequence,
the heart went out of the builders and owners.
They practically let it go from the start. Seeing
it would not pay expenses, they let it get



out of repair, and in the course of a few years
it went down.
   The narrow bridge to which we were going
was not the crossing bridge of a public road,
but a company bridge, to transfer the mules
from one bank to the other at a place where
the exigencies of engineering made it necessary
to change sides for the tow-path. These
mules were hitched to a long rope, with the
other end fastened to the bow of the canal-
boat. The company's orders were to unhitch
the mules from the tow-rope in transferring
them; but in a slow movement of the boat it
was possible to rush the mules across the bridge,
and drive them down under and reach the bank
on the other side before the boat would go
through far enough to tighten the rope on the
mules. It was a forbidden transaction, which
had something of the dangers of a running
switch. This day, as we made the last turn in the
wood-road, and were brought suddenly in sight
of the bridge, two mules hitched tandem were
approaching the farther end of it, and the boat
was slowly moving down the channel. Behind
the mules was a lazy-looking driver, with a long
gad. As the mules approached the bridge the
driver began to ply his gad vigorously to rush
the animals across and under before the boat



would tighten the tow-rope. The front mule
shied at the foot of the bridge and hindered
him a moment, and that was long enough to let
the boat overtake him. The boat was clear
under by the time the mules were in the center,
and about two-thirds across they were both
pulled from the bridge into the canal. They
fell a distance of twenty feet. What a splash!
Poor animals; the victims of a lazy and trifling
driver! John Wesley believed that animals
live forever. I hope it is true. If those two
mules come up against that scamp in the day
of judgment, he will not get inside the gates.
Shame on a man who will hazard or take the
life of a poor dumb brute in that way! One of
these mules came to the surface, and was taken
out, but it was a cripple. The other tangled in
the harness head downward, and was drowned.
   As the two mules went over the. bridge,
Nancy caught me by the hand and started on a
full run to the house; partly in fright, partly to
tell the news; but she made me take some long
steps. It seemed to me I only touched the
ground now and then. She arrived out of
breath. I arrived somewhat stove up. The
kittens arrived.
   The question of cruelty to animals now
came up, and the death of the kittens was about



to be indefinitely postponed till father made a
very strong argument in favor of his first plan.
So next morning we started for the bridge again.
Instead of putting a stone in the sack, we untied
it and poured them out from the top of the
bridge into the water. Four of them soon
sank; but one made for the shore and reached
it. We caught it and threw it back. Three
times we repeated this, and each time that kitten
made such a wonderful fight for its life, and
with every breath made such a pitiful plea, that
my heart, steeled for the work till now, was
completely broken. Nancy was taking the little
thing for what would have been its last trial,
for it was now exhausted and hardly able to
breathe. I slipped up behind her, snatched it
from her hand, and ran with all my might out
the road towards the house. I was a hundred
yards from the canal before she overtook me;
and then I was ready to make war on Nancy if
she touched me. We returned with the kitten.
It showed its gratitude by becoming a famous cat.

   The building of this canal required many
more workmen than the country through which
it was being built could furnish; and along the
route-sometimes by the contractors, and sometimes
by the workmen themselves--were built



log cabins and huts to shelter the men, and often
their families. After the work was done, it was
no infrequent thing to find a man too poor to
get away, and he became a permanent citizen.
This sort of thing brought an admixture of bad
blood to the communities along the route of the
canal. In one of these huts lived a man who
had two boys and a sick wife. The cabin was
in the east limits of Hazelgreen, not fifty feet
away from the stone locks.  The body of the
lock, which was large enough to receive the
boats, formed a great hollow, around which the
water made its way and poured from the waste-
way, falling ten feet or more into the depths below.
This falling water made such a noise that
it could be heard frequently from our house. I
had never seen it, but had formed great ideas
about it.
   The day after we came from the bridge, I
went with mother to help carry some delicacies
to this sick woman, the wife of Jack Hardy.
While she was feeding the sick woman, I went
with the two boys, both older than myself, down
to the lock. I saw the water rolling over the
stone dam into the foam below. It was to me a
veritable Niagara. The roar and froth and hollow
echo of the waters from the caverns of the
lock produced in me the most dreadful feelings.
                     


What is that sublime and awful thing in the
falling of water? It is a noise which has not
been set to any music, but it must take its
place somewhere among the harmonies. It has
in it a sublimity that always moves the soul.
Neither does it require the cultured ear to be
enthralled by it. You simply stand still and
in silence. You wonder as it sways you, without
knowing why. The savage will stand by
the cataract and listen to its roar till his superstitions
drive him away. My childish spirit
was taken up into the fearful splash and roar
of that artificial cataract. In the steep embankment
of solid clay these two boys had
cut steps, forming a sort of stairway leading
down to the water's edge. I was much attracted
by this terraced work in going down, but lost
thought of it in the roar of the water. To my
consternation, as soon as I was down the two
boys turned on me for a quarrel. One of them
said:
   "Bub, do you want to fight?"
   "Not down here, where I am scared at this
water."
   "Then you are a coward."
   "No, I am not a coward."
   "0, we will see! We will put you into this
water. This place is ours down here anyhow."


      



  "HERE YOU GO NOW."




   With that, they caught me, each boy taking
an arm and a leg, and they dipped me down in
the water till I was thoroughly wet.  Then
they stood me in the edge of the canal with my
back to the water, and each boy put his foot on
one of mine. Mashing both my feet in the
mud, they would push me backward into the
water. Then they took each a foot and a hand
again, and began to swing me out over the
water towards the cataract. Once they swung
me, and then they said:
   "Now, next time we will let you go--here
you go now."
   That was death to me as deeply as I ever
expect to feel it. I suffered a death without
meeting it. With the second swing out, I knew
no more.   I was suddenly in a strange and
glorious place--trees, birds, sunshine, happy
people, landscapes of beauty, swards of green
as smooth as velvet carpet, and entrancing
music. I was enraptured with every vision
that met my childish eyes. On a silk rug at my
feet I saw, snugged up together, the four kittens
we had drowned at the bridge the day before. I
became drowsy and tired, and I lay down on the
silk rug, and bent myself around the four kittens,
and went to sleep.
   The next I knew I was at home in the high



bed, and my mother was bending over me,
asking:
   "How is my boy now?"
   "I do n'tknow."
   "How did my child fall in the water?"
   "I did not fall in the water."
   Mother did not hear my screams for help; but
when she was ready for home she came to hunt
me, and found me lying on the bank, unconscious.
The boys told her that I had fallen in
the water, and they had taken me out.
   The whole affair came to me, and I told her
how it was. Mother went to the door, and
called father from the field. They held a short
conversation at the door. Father's face turned
ashen pale. He put his ax down by the step,
handed his coat to mother, and started for town.
Mother said:
   "See about it, Reuben; but keep your senses
when you see Jack Hardy."
   Before he reached town his better judgment
was enthroned ; so he found Jack, who was half
drunk. He gave him the case, and told him to
go home and punish his two scamps. Jack was
sober enough to know what that meant, and he
followed directions to the letter; but it did no
good. The fact is, when that sort of thing is in
children who are old enough to know right from



wrong, it is seldom anything else than the
prophecy of a bad end.
   Have you any interest in knowing what became
of these boys? They lived to be men. A
few years ago I stood by the bedside of one of
them, and saw him die fighting snakes and wild
animals in the awfulness of delirium tremens. I
saw him slam the door of time behind him with
a curse on his lips. The other is now a convict
for life in the Iowa State Prison.
   The dread I had when these boys were
throwing me out over the water was not of
physical suffering. The crown of my agony
was in the wrong of the thing suffered at the
hands of these young villains. A few notes will
express the limit of physical pain and the
dread of it; but a scale of notes, reaching from
earth to perdition, can alone express the possible
suffering of the spirit. How the world
changes! How life changes as a child emerges
from the covert of the home, where it has never
known anything but the forces that have been
true, and steps into the edge of a world of buffet,
heartless and full of deception and treachery!
To have any experience in this world is to learn to
doubt. Distrust becomes a part of the armor of
protection to the successful. "Know your man
before you trust him," is a wise business maxim.



"And after that, keep your weather eye open,"
is the caution that any extensive business
experience would add to it. The spirit of confidence
in human forces in this world may be
growing stronger, but experience with men
puts in us the element of distrust, and we can
not help it. To doubt, therefore, has value.
Those who never doubt, those who insist on believing
that all men are honest, usually get
stranded in the stream of life. When it is
known that you trust every man, about every
other man you meet will be a confidence man.
Distrust this world, and hold it at bay until you
can take care of your own. Successful business
men have largely developed the element of
caution. Do not distrust God as you distrust
men. There is no treachery in him. He will
not cheat. He will not take short cuts.
   Children usually get their taste of the false
in life by tid-bits. They move out into it by
way of little eye-openers and surprises. They
get it in installments. I got the full measure
of mine with my first experience. Through the
years I have looked on that fact as something
of a misfortune. Its pressure on me was too
great at too early an age. It fell on me like a
dull thud, and has left in me the traces of iron.
The springs and modulations of my whole life



have been dulled by it, so that on one hand, I
am robbed of much enjoyment, and on the other
I am too keenly susceptible to certain qualities of
exquisite pain. The spirit of resistance toward
those who oppose me has been intensified and
too determined by it.  It has left in me a
shrinking feeling toward the surface antagonisms
of life, and, unfortunately, it has helped
to possess me with a coolness and a stoical 
indifference in the face of a danger that threatens
death, which is certainly abnormal. At no
other time since, when in imminent danger of
death, have I felt the least excitement. I felt the
spiritual tremor of death that day at the canal-
lock, and I never expect to feel it again.


      
      
         


         CHAPTER V.

         JOE CONEER, THE CRAZY MAN.

   
    
     "Sorrow that made the reason drunk, and yet
     Left much untasted-so the cup was filled;
     Sorrow that like an ocean, dark, deep, rough,
     And shoreless, rolled its billows o'er the soul
     Perpetually, and without hope of end."
   
      -POLLOK.
   
         
   
      "Extreme mind is close to extreme insanity."
      -PASCAL.
   
         
   
      "Since when have I shown signs of insanity?"
      -CATO.
   
         
   "Great wit to madness nearly is allied."
      -DRYDEN.
   

WHILE we are under the head of the reflex
       power of circumstances on the character,
I want to enter into another matter that 
influenced me greatly. It was the custom for
the farmers about, to have extra help in the
spring and summer seasons. One spring father
hired a man for six months, "wet and dry."
    


His name was Joe Coneer. He was a stalwart
and mighty man, and he had in him a companionable
and royal spirit. The first day at
dinner I made friends with Joe. Father liked
Joe. We all liked him. He always came to
the scratch. He was honest with his work; and
in every way he was a first-class farm-hand.
He worked the six months, and only lost one
half-day. The peculiarity about Joe was, that
at times he was slightly crazy; not to a degree
that it interfered with his work, but during the
months of his stay among us his mental defection
became more apparent. He would sometimes
whistle a tune at the table, greatly always
to my amusement. One time this performance
occurred when we had strange company. Some
days while at work he would wear his left pant-
leg rolled up above his knee, until he would
blister his leg in the sun. In the morning,
when he went to feed the stock, he would always
hop from the house to the stable on one foot.
He would never think of doing such a thing at
any other time. He had a mortal fear of snakes,
and would carry a club to be ready for them. He
would carry this club all day while binding wheat.
He would lay it down while he tied the bundle,
and take it up again when going on. Joe never
killed a snake in his life. One day, while binding,

   

he came to a bundle, on top of which had
crawled a little green one about eight inches
long--the kind we boys use to take and put
into our pockets. Joe had his club. He solemnly
looked at that snake for a minute, and
then walked around it and went on to the next
bundle, saying: "I'll let you go." He would
loan the club to me, and I would kill his snakes
for him. I had in me the common impulse, and
I never missed a chance. Kill a snake when
you see it. Why? Because other people do.
Because the ancestors of the whole tribe played
our mother Eve such a mean trick. I'll not
have anything to say about the theology of
snake-killing; but it seems to me that man is
getting overmuch revenge on these poor crawling
creatures for one little piece of deceit. The
fact is, Eve wanted the apple. And in the
spirit of injured innocence her children have
been pounding this dejected beast into the
ground ever since. The whole thing lacks
dignity.
   Toward the close of the summer it was
thought best by all parties that Joe should spend
the winter in the asylum. It was mentioned to
him, and in his lucid moments he would consent
to go, and soon he would change his mind.
Finally the papers were made out, and one



morning the sheriff and his deputy made their
appearance to take Joe to the asylum. Joe was
fickle that morning; he would consent, and then
refuse. He baffled the officers till it was 
apparent that he must be taken by force. This
put a serious side to things. Father used every
power of persuasion on Joe, telling him that
these men meant him no harm, that they were
his friends, and that they would take good care
of him, and show him every kindness.
   "And, Joe, you know that at times your mind
is not qnite right, and you will be cured, and
we want you to live with us again next
summer."
   Joe would say: "I know my mind is not
right, but I can't go."
   "Why, Joe?"
   "Rickets, rickets, rickets--hi ho, hi ho--two
hops and four snakes, and a tune to match!"
and Joe turned abruptly around, and, against
some resistance, went into the house.
   Father and the two men followed in a quandary.
Joe must be tied or no sheriff would
ever be able to take him. Finally the sheriff
reached the purpose to take him by force, and
so ordered father and the deputy to get ready.
Joe was a physical giant. Lack of mental
balance seemed to have its compensation in a



most perfectly developed and complete physical
manhood. Father was a stronger man than Joe,
but could not tie him, and he had doubt if the
three could do it. At any rate the attempt
meant danger. The spirit of resistance was
aroused in Joe, and he threw his hat on the
bed, clenched his fists, backed himself in the
corner, and declared his purpose to fight them
to the bitter end. The three men were a little
slow to take hold. Mother was advising against
taking him in the house. To me the scene
was one of horror. I was not old enough to
see the importance of taking Joe away, and I
had heard nothing of the plan and was not prepared
for it. His vagaries to me had not
reached any other importance than that of an
entertainment to me. I enjoyed them. Joe
was different from other men, but his antics had
to me nothing deeper than the ludicrous. I
pleaded openly for Joe, and was in the spirit of
regarding the whole crowd of opposers as my
enemies, and I had made up mind, if the fight
came on, to help Joe. The sheriff saw that I
was giving strength to Joe's purpose, and he
ordered me to be quiet. Father sanctioned the
command of the sheriff; so I kept quiet, secretly
intending to help Joe if they undertook to take
him. There was a change of tactics. Persuasion



and threats had now failed, and there was left
the test of the strength of the influence of one
will over another. The issue was the actual breaking
of the will of one strong man against that
of another. Joe had shown determination and
courage, and it was now to be seen if he would
surrender under the command of the man whom
he respected and feared. There was a time of
silence--of awful silence; but long enough to
shift the battle from the realm of physical to
the realm of mental forces. Father stepped
out in front of Joe, took the buckskin thongs
from the hands of the sheriff, and deliberately
laid them straight across his left hand. Then
he looked Joe in the eyes till they flinched;
then he said, in the spirit of intense command:
   "Joe, cross your hands."
   The poor man threw up his hands and
crossed them, and father tied the thongs, gently
but firmly about them and delivered him to the
sheriff. Joe's face as he crossed his hands is
with me to this day. It was the double horror
of reason dethroned and will gone. Unutterable
sorrow was the expression of every motion
of the poor man. But the pallor left his face
in a moment. His brain was then in confusion;
and he began an incoherent and senseless
jabber that he kept up till he was out of hearing



down the woodland road. I felt that a cruel
wrong had been done Joe. No one had explained
the case to me. I associated the two
men with the two boys who had swung me out
toward the cataract. Joe knew how I felt. I
could not close my eyes that night without seeing
that pitiful face. Fitful dreams of the affair
disturbed my slumber for weeks.
   These circumstances were sobering my life
too soon. It had been better had I never known
them. I was beginning to learn sorrow and
know its reality too soon. To this time I had
many a little cry over bumps and disappointments,
but they were like brief showers among
the trees on a summer day. They were refreshments
more than anything else. But Joe's face
photographed itself on me. I do not say it
threw a shadow into my life, but I believe it
was not good for me.
   There was no apparent cause for Joe's mental
derangement. He was a noble-spirited man,
and he had about him every mark of the best
family lineage. No one ever knew whence he
came. His family history was a complete mystery.
Father was doubtful of the good that
was to come to him because of the extreme
pressure put upon him when he was taken, and



he was saddened that he had sent Joe from
him apparently a worse lunatic than ever.
   In six months Joe was pronounced cured,
and he returned to us for the next summer,
his idiosyncrasies gone--sobered, perhaps saddened,
by the knowledge that his reason had
been on the verge of incurable wreck. Joe appeared
to be constantly standing on guard of
himself, and but few evidences of any mental
aberration could be noticed. In a few years he
married a contented, spirited woman, who had
in her own right forty acres of land. On this
Joe built a stout, stocky cabin, with palings and
fencings about; and finally the whole forty was
cleared by his own hand. The fences and barn
and smoke-house, and the cabin itself, were
regularly whitewashed each spring; and this
little home became a notable place. He became
a great home-keeper and an ideal farmer.
Other farms have been improved about him--
large, fine houses and barns have been built in
sight of him all about-but his whitewashed
cabin stands there to-day in remarkable preservation;
and the two old people go about their
work in the fashion of forty years ago. Joe has
gone past his threescore and ten; he stands tall
and erect as an Indian, with a shock of hair as



white as snow; and he has also gone past the
danger-line of mental wandering. Joe is to-day
living with a clean mind and a great hope in
his heart.
   The inside of his cabin is as clean as cleanliness
itself. His tall form never entered that
house without receiving a wifely welcome.
The love of his great heart always responded,
and the two hearts made one, became a guarantee
for his reason.
   I want to put down a word here for Joe's
wife. Any small degree of domestic trouble
would have made him a hopeless mental wreck.
She knew this, and she knew also that he possessed
the parts of a splendid mind and heart.
So she made that home an asylum of contentment.
She had a deliberate purpose to make
his heart glad whenever he darkened the door.
Her service to this great, good man became a
part of her life, and the thing she did about it
made her a queenly woman. When any honest
man comes from his toil to his home, he ought
to have a welcome. The lack of it has snapped
the courage of many a strong heart. It has
sent many a man, soul and body, into the swift
curves toward hell.
   Joe, of course, was not morally responsible
when crazy. I never could get away from the



feeling that Joe was good if he was crazy.
Whether the space covered by his insane hours
was a blank to him or not, I do not know.
Whether he looked sorrowfully over the ground
of his mental wanderings with the first lucid
moment, and then took up the load of life, or
whether he started again at the point where
reason left him, I do not know. Joe acted as if
he knew, but he was silent about it. There
was a great longing in Joe's face all the time.
He was outwardly cheerful, because after the
mental storm, with him, there was the clearest
sunshine of intellectual vision. His mental
parts, when they were to be seen, were all of
remarkable force. He could frame a proposition,
put two together, and draw a conclusion
with the greatest mental acumen. But all the
while, when he knew himself, he seemed to
know a shattered self; and he appeared to go
about his work and duty with misgivings.
   What a blessing is reason throned! What a
slight thing will wreck an empire ! The wonder
is, so few people go crazy. There is so much
drunkenness, so much gluttony, so much overwork,
so much domestic sorrow, and life is running
so much like a storm, with no sleep, and in
hot, relentless pursuit of that which bursts like
a bauble in the hands as soon as it is gained--
                


what mind-wreckers these! When the human
brain itself becomes a burning phosphorous ball,
never to sink to rest till it is consumed-what
wonder the mastery of self-government so frequently
goes; what wonder the taut nerves
snap, and leave the soul to frenzy and madness!
What a strain the moral excesses of man constantly
put on mental integrity!
   Joe would never tell, but he knew what made
 him crazy. His mind had gone deep into some
 trouble before he came to our country. He
 had thrown it off, for he did not brood over it;
 but to throw it off cost him his steady ballast
 of reason. It might have done him good to tell
 his secret to some one. One day, as we were
 sitting on a log in the woods pasture, I thought
 he had opened his lips to speak of the hidden
 thing; but he became silent suddenly, and we
 walked home without exchanging a word. I
 am sure of one thing--Joe's madness was not for
 any wrong in himself, unless it was for not
 throwing his burden off till it wrecked him.
    The wreck of reason in Joe's case was not
 so great as to affect his character.  The daylight
 of the world--a chance to build a character--
 was not taken from Joe.
   Power of self-control--that is the balance-



wheel of reason. Whenever self-dominion goes,
we are madmen. A fit of anger--is not that
madness? Gather up all the finest faculties,
and compute them, and what are they worth
then? In what is reason better than lunacy in
the moment it is dethroned? The sun of the
soul goes behind a cloud then. Manliness gives
way. The spirit passes through a storm just
then. The man is not insane, but short ot
sanity. The soundest mind in a few leaps
will be in the border-land of frenzy. Passion,
tempest-sprung, is a wild horse without bit or
bridle, on which we are tied; and we always
take a Mazeppa's ride. Keep your temper--
above everything, keep your temper. Good
Lord, give us "the spirit of a sound mind!"
   After Joe left our house, I grew out of his
knowledge. I have seen him many a time on
the road, in the city, on his farm at work; and
at times I have surmised that he knew me as
well as I knew him, but cared not to keep up
an acquaintance that called up the saddest
memories. Through this forty years I have not
cared to renew his acquaintance. I know he is
a manly man. He impressed his spirit on my
child-mind. I think I know him thoroughly
well. I know him on the inside. I re-name



him Joseph Greatheart. What I know of him
has put a thread of melancholy in my life; but
it has not had the effect to take the springs of
purpose out of me, but to encourage me the
rather. If I hear of Joe's death in time, I will
go to the funeral.

      
      
      

      

   CHAPTER VI.

   JIM HANDY, THE VILLAIN.

   
     
     "Envy, eldest born of hell, imbrued
     Her hands in blood, and taught the sons of men
     To make a death which nature never made.
     And God abhorred, with violence rude, to break
     The thread of life ere half its length was run,
     And rob a brother of its being."
      
     --PORTEUS.
   
   
      
        
        "Between the acting of a dreadful thing
        And the first motion, all the interim is
        Like a phantasma, or a hideous dream."
        
                                    AKESPEARE.
      

FATHER had a half-brother, Welborn 
Blannerhassett, who lived three miles to the
northeast of us, across the canal and beyond
the breaks of Honey Creek. He was a man of
splendid parts.   He had friends everywhere,
and no known enemies. He possessed both
business ability and public spirit. He was a
                                         


leader in the community, and very popular.
As a man and citizen his praise was on all
lips. But his wife was a vixen. She was
coarse and uncouth in appearance, and a bad
spirit. She was morose and scowling and 
dissatisfied. What possessed Uncle Welborn to
marry her, I do not know. If men always exercised
good judgment in selecting wives, some
women would never get married at all--a statement
as completely true when turned the other
way. They say John Wesley married a regular
old hectoration. I do n'tknow about that; but
I do know that Uncle Welborn was sorrowfully
mismated. He was refined in spirit, and 
ambitious for the best things; she was slovenly,
with a mind full of vulgarities, and having no
ambition but for her own ease. She had no
capacity to appreciate him, and it was her 
delight to make him miserable. What he thought
no one ever knew--he was simply silent. No
word of disparagement of his wife ever escaped
him. His provision for her was on the principle
of taking her "for better or for worse."
In this case it was "for worse." Uncle 
Welborn did the work in the house and in the
field. She was too lazy to work, too lazy to
keep herself clean. She sat in her old chair,
played sick, and smoked her pipe, and got as



fat as a hog. This woman had a brother, Jim
Handy--another gloomy and, many believed, an
evil spirit--who wandered up and down the
country, a general and worthless vagabond.
Elenor--that was uncle's wife's name--wanted
this graceless scamp to have right of way to all
that was on the farm and in the house. For
years Uncle Welborn had practically supported
Jim. One day Jim was informed that he must
henceforth provide for himself. That was a
piece of disagreeable news to Jim. There was
no quarrel. Uncle Welborn was never known
to quarrel with his wife. When she railed out
on him, he whistled. A thousand times he had
whistled her out of court. A day or so after
this notice to Jim to quit the premises, uncle
had retired early, and had gone to sleep. Elenor
was still up, pottering in and out, and Jim was
still up, when Uncle Welborn's skull was crushed
with his own ax. Neither of these two saw any
sign of any one going or coming. They heard
no noise of any kind. The ax had been returned
to the wood-pile, and deliberately stuck
into the end of a log. Elenor had been in the
room once after the deed was done, and had not
noticed it, she said. When it was discovered,
she started Jim to our house; but he got lost,
and never did his errand. He had to this time



been playing crazy for several months. He was
so foxy sharp that he made a few believe lie
was demented. Jack Graham, returning from
town, was called in, and brought father the news,
and also went for the doctor.
   Father took a dim path through the woods
to a crossing in the canal, where a canoe was
kept. The canoe was on the opposite side from
him, and he had to swim the canal. He reached
the house about three o'clock in the morning.
Elenor was there alone with the murdered man.
She had done nothing to him, nor for him. She
was sitting in the corner in a sullen way, smoking
her pipe. Father says:
   "Where is Welborn; is he dead?"
   "No, he is not dead."
   Then she affected to cry. She did not cry;
she only whined. Father went to the bed.
There was a slow and labored breathing--nothing
more. He saw the depression in his forehead,
and knew what the weapon was. He
went to the wood-pile, found the ax, and brought
it in, and saw plainly that it had been used.
By this time two physicians were there. Before
daylight the skull-bone was lifted, and uncle
was lucid for a moment.
   Father said to him:
   "How was it done, Welborn?"



   "What, Reuben?"
   "Your skull has been crushed with your
own ax."
   "I know nothing about it. Will I die?"
   "The doctors say so. Have you anything
to say?"
   "No, nothing. I did not know I had such
an enemy. I would have preferred a natural
death-tried to live an honest life--coast clear--
coast clear--g-o-o-d-b-y-e."
   He had no more rational moments. Before
the work of the physicians was finished, Jim returned,
having given up trying to find the way
to our house.
   Neither Jim nor Elenor approached the bed
during Welborn's last words. Father noticed
their glances at each other, and their consternation
that he should ever speak again. Is there
such a thing as knowing a fact without knowing
it--that is, without evidence that a court
would receive?
   Father walked from the bedside across the
room to where old Jim stood, put his fist in his
face, and said to him:
   "No wonder you lost your way last night,
you old scoundrel. You did that deed."
   Old Jim blanched, nearly fell backward over
a chair, mumbled something through his nose



and teeth, and inside of five minutes he was out
in the dark without coat or hat, and gone. He
broke into the woods, and was not heard of for
a month. He wandered through the timbered
country about thirty miles, and found harbor
with another branch of his family, who proposed
to unite in the plea that Jim was crazy;
so no arrest was made.
   All this is incidental to my own interest in
what followed. Father's accusation brought in
Jim the spirit of revenge. He declared openly
that he would take father's life.
   It appeared that Elenor's selfishness defeated
Jim's purpose. He expected to live with Elenor
after Uncle Welborn's death, knowing that the
farm would support them both. Father's unexpected
accusation to his face changed his plans
somewhat, and he was afraid to return to the
region of the murder to look after his own interests.
Father became administrator of the
estate, and induced Elenor to sell the farm,
take the money, and move from the country.
Where she went, no one knew. No one made
any inquiry. No one cared, except as a matter
of curiosity. The sale of this farm, and the departure
of Elenor was a part of father's plan for
the defeat of old Jim. The murder was not of
malice at first. It was of laziness. Jim was too



lazy to work. In a bungling way he played
crazy to keep from work. He killed Uncle
Welborn as a part of an ill-conceived plan to
keep from work. When he found that the farm
had been sold, and Elenor had pocketed the
money and had gone, his wrath knew no bounds.
He had escaped prosecution from one murder
under the insanity dodge, and he felt safe in the
plot of another. Old Jim, by some means, came
into possession of a good gun, which he carried
constantly in his tramps over the country. He
only gave one reason for carrying that gun.
That was to kill father. He lived a week or so
at a place, wherever the people would keep him.
His movements were mysterious. No one ever
knew his plans ahead. There was only one
thing in his future,--that was to kill Rube Blannerhassett.
Many friends gave father warning.
There were times when old Jim would be seen
coming into the neighborhood, and father would
receive news of it by some one solicitous for him.
Father was not afraid of old Jim in open conflict.
To have the matter over, he would have
preferred open war with him. This, however,
would have been an unequal contest. It would
have been a life of value hazarded in almost
equal chances with a life of no value.
   Some advised father to relieve himself and



the community by the short way known to all
of them. His reply to these indiscreet friends
was:
   "I shall never take a human life, except in
self-defense."
   Others believed old Jim was slightly crazy,
and would never carry out his threat. Father's
theory was that Jim was not crazy at all.
The physicians were convinced of his sanity.
When father boldly charged him with the crime,
it was so startling a thing to his mind that he
forgot to play lunatic, and blanched and trembled
over the, horror of being detected.
   So matters went on. There was no way to
change the dread suspense of things. Old Jim
had the field, and all the advantages of a shrewd
game of lunacy. There was nothing for father
to do but to go about his business. He went
armed for a time. This was very inconvenient
for a business man, and, besides, it looked cowardly.
It was only for a few months that father
pretended to keep himself in readiness for the
man who had sworn vengeance. But it was
during this time that the whole affair became
known to me. It came about in the following
way: Father had some hewed timber to haul
from the woods--the framework of a large barn.
Old Jim knew this, and father thought that if



he intended to carry out his purpose, it would
be at some time when he was getting out this
timber.
    In these trips into the woods I was taken
 along to hold the horses, and to put the chock
 under the handspike, as father, first with his
 weight, then with a lift, would bring the hewed
 timber up against the axle with the aid of a
 log-chain. The trusty old rifle always went
 along these trips. I wondered at this, because
 no game was found, and the gun often became
 unhandy. We were driving one day through
 a spur of Honey Creek bottom where the under-
 brush was densest, when a cracking of brush in
 the edge of a pawpaw-patch brought the rifle
 to father's face in a moment, with an intense
 watchfulness in the direction from which the
 sound came. I was sitting in front, at the
 point of the coupling, driving. I always did
 this, and father always held his gun in his
 hands. I heard the crack of the brush. I
 caught next father's face pallid with excitement,
 and behind the pallor an awful purpose.
   "What was it, father?"
   "I guess it must have been a falling limb,"
he said, as he slowly took his gun from his
face, but still keeping his eye on the spot.
   "Did you intend to shoot a falling limb?"



   At this he faintly smiled, and said:
   "I guess not."
   Then I saw that his whole frame was shaking
as of palsy. This great, strong man had
already overtaxed himself at hard work, and
had broken his nerves, so that under any sort
of undue excitement, as soon as the tension
of it was over, he found himself unable to control
himself. This thing in my father was not
strange to me, but it was out of all precedent
that a falling limb should produce it; so I said:
   "Are you afraid out here, father?"
   "No, I am not afraid; but never mind now,
my son."
   I said no more; but here was a new experience.
Father's heart was shut down from me.
As I drove slowly home, I said to myself, What
awful thing is this that he will not explain to
me? I was hurt that I was shut out from his
confidence. My thoughts about the matter became
unbearable. As we passed the house
toward the barn-plot, I made excuse to run in to
get relief somehow from my feelings.  I told
mother the happening, and I saw in a moment
she knew more than I did--that she understood
the matter. Her reticence only put me in
greater distress. She went to the barn-plot
with me, and helped me to take the chocks



from under the spike to let the log down, and
she said:
    "You are not dead yet, are you, Reuben?"
    "No, but I thought my time had come. I
 thought I saw old Jim turn his gun on me from
 under a pawpaw-bush; but it was only a dead
 limb that fell across a black stump."
   "Would it not be better to have some one
 else haul the rest of the timber from that
 wood?"
   "No, no! I'll go ahead and attend to my
 business, and let the consequences take care of
 themselves."
   "Well, I think, anyhow, you will have to tell
your boy, here, more than he knows, and why
you carry your gun to work these days. He is
worked up about it."
   "Well, come along, Rodney; we will get
another stick of timber, and I will tell you."
   So he did, and it was a great relief to me.
But from that hour there were two pairs of eyes
on guard for the bushwhacking old scoundrel.
   For ten years after this, old Jim ranged up
and down the country. He was always to me
the personification of villainy. The sight of
him was the picture of all that is despicable in
the human character. As the years went by,
my fears of his executing his purpose grew less.



After a time, Jim became too poor and trifling
to own efficient firearms. So, also, as time
passed, it became more and more doubtful if
he had energy enough to originate a plot of
shrewdness to carry out his threat. I have met
him on the road a hundred times. I suppose
he never knew me, and I never spoke to him.
Father would speak, and sometimes exchange a
word. Assuming that we never heard of his
threats, Jim would affect friendliness in a cringing
attitude, and call at the back door for something
to eat. Mother would feed him for the
sake of peace. She had a woman's wit, which
in this case, as in most others, was doubtless of
more value than man's indifference and courage.
Mother was wise when she declared that things
were not equal when her husband's life was
thrown into the unequal chance with such a
man as this. Mother was not given to feminine
weaknesses, but she felt that it would be a disgrace
if father should ever have to take old Jim's
life in self-defense. But inasmuch as the probability
was that he would never have a chance
to defend himself, she used a woman's art to
drive from Jim's mind his belligerent and murderous
purpose. Father objected to this policy;
but his objection did not change it. It was a
case in which a woman's insight had in it the



greater reason. It will never be known, of
course; but the probabilities are that mother
kept Jim from killing father.
   This affair, which I believe father never intended
me to know, and which I never would
have known had it not been for the incident in
the timber, affected me so intensely that I came
to feel myself personally identified with it.
The matter possessed me so thoroughly that the
sight of old Jim brought abhorrence to my very
soul. It grew on me, until it finally resolved
itself into a kind of half-formed purpose to rid
the world of old Jim. The argument went this
way in my mind: Old Jim is of no account.
The world would be better off without him.
All his relatives wish he were dead, for then
they would no longer have him to feed and
harbor. They tolerate him now, only because
they are half afraid of him. If he should kill
father, I will always wish I had taken the drop on
him. Everybody believes he killed Uncle Welborn.
He is a murderer, and ought to die. I am
a mild-mannered chap, and no one will suspect
me. I put this down just as it was. You say
there was murder in my heart. So there was. I
did not count the cost. I was dallying with the
ethical principle of the Irishman who said: "It
is wrong to chate, but I would rather chate than
 


be chated." I only say the feeling possessed
me, and it culminated in a fearful temptation.
It came to me at a time in life and under conditions
which left me with absolutely no power
to throw it off. I would like to have the reader
remember that I was convinced beyond all doubt
that this man was not crazy--that he was a
very demon incarnate--and that he hoped to
escape punishment for killing father under the
lunacy dodge. His first success emboldened
him for the second. Father was careless, and
went without protection. He was so absorbed
in his business that there would have been
little difficulty in any one taking his life
clandestinely.
   One afternoon in the latter part of May, the
summer I was twelve years old, I had finished
plowing the ridge field, had put the horse in
the stable, had taken the long rifle, and had
gone into the west woods to hunt squirrels.
This was a famous old gun we kept specially
for small game. It run two hundred bullets to
the pound. With thick patching, we could use
buckshot in it. It looked more like the firearm
of an Arab than anything else. It was known
to have a fearful projectile force, and when
loaded rightly, it would put the bullet where
the bead was drawn without variation. When



the hunter fired this trusty old weapon and got
no game, it was his own fault. I had come to
great skill with this gun. I was not strong
enough to hold it out off-hand, but could throw
the long stock under my right arm, catch my
left elbow on my left hip, bend over to get in
line with the sights, and kill game on the
ground. From the trees I had but little difficulty
in getting a rest on a limb or by the side
of a tree. It was a point of pride with me not
to cut the body of the squirrel with the bullet.
The size of a squirrel's head was range enough
anywhere. I sauntered through the woods this
afternoon, given over largely to random thoughts
and reflections, killing a squirrel now and then,
and taking a sort of quarter-day holiday--a
respite I had not enjoyed since the busy work
of the spring opened. I remembered seeing old
Jim that morning, in a skulking sort of way
(he always appeared to me to skulk), with a gun
on his shoulder, come from the direction of the
Balner den, as it was commonly known--a family
of bad repute, where, we understood, Jim had
been keeping himself for a month or more--and
he went into the timber east of Hazelgreen.
Father at noon had gone west to the hill farm
on the breaks of the creek, and was to return
about sundown. He must travel an unfrequented



road nearly all the way; and it was the
road old Jim came out in the morning. If Jim
returned that way, he would meet father coming
home. Putting these things together brought
unpleasant thoughts; so much so, that I lost
all zest in the hunt, and had pushed my head
and shoulders up among the low branches of a
scraggy jack-oak bush in the thicket, and laid
the gun across the limbs to take a rest and remain
quietly in hiding until a squirrel should
report himself somewhere near. I was in the
thickest kind of underbrush in about forty
yards of the road, and could see it plainly,
having a view up and down half a quarter or
more. I saw old Jim coming down the road
with his gun on his shoulder, and with his hat
off, carrying it in front of him. He had something
in his hat. "What shall I do now?" I
said to myself. He will meet father in the
darkest place of the wood-road coming home.
Jim could have easily been a spy to his going
west at noon. I could not shake off my anxiety
at the thought that the two men would meet
alone in the woods; one of them armed, and
with a grudge in his heart. The sure way for
my father's safety began to sway me. Through
a slight opening in the trees I saw Jim plainly
as he came down the roadway, and seated 



himself on an old log right opposite me by the
roadside. I knew that he had been down to the
house, and that mother had given him food.
Through a break in the leaves not more than a
foot square I had a full view, and was so situated
that he could not possibly see me, unless, by
noise or movement, his eye should be attracted.
He took a part of a loaf of bread from his hat,
and begun to crunch it. It was the part of a
fine loaf we had left for dinner. That was
plainly mother's bread. It was to my mind a
woman's feeble effort to make peace with a
villain. That huge man sat there, with his hat
off, straight and still as a statue, except the
working of his jaws and the going and coming
of his hand, feeding himself. The sun was
shining in his face. I saw his features as I
never saw them before. Stalwart form, high
forehead, uncombed hair reaching down to his
shoulders, and whiskers as shaggy as a bush-
man. Things dark and devilish were in that
face. Mother's gift of food was to me a humiliation.
Uncle Welborn had fed that man for years,
and then had been killed by him. I thought
of my father's peaceful and laborious and pros-
perous life. And there before me was the object
of all the hate I had ever known. Consequences!
What are they but the forces that



move me! I pushed my rifle up over the limb of
that jack-oak--cocked it, with the triggers set--
and drew a perfect bead on old Jim's forehead
just three-quarters of an inch above his left eyebrow,
and held it there, and rubbed my finger
up and down the hair trigger of the rifle! I
raised my head from the gun, and watched him
for a while; then drew another bead, and rubbed
the trigger! Three separate times I did that
thing. I did not kill old Jim because God
drove me away from an awful desire. I wanted
to touch the trigger--God forgive me! Did
Jim's life hang in a balance? Did mine?
Did the destiny of my soul hang on the fact
of my rubbing that trigger without firing? In
those moments the chatter of a squirrel in the
branches would have touched my nerves and
killed Jim. How calmly a mortal at times will
walk out on the edges of eternal woe! Glad indeed
I am that I did not kill that desperate
man. It would have wrecked my life.
   As I walked away I was as conscious of the
presence of an unseen and superior Power as I
am conscious that I am writing these pages. I
make a deliberate testimony that God stayed
my murderous intent, and that he was angry
with me. In the desire of my heart I had vexed
him. This is all I can say about it--only that




   "I WANTED TO KILL OLD JIM."



   


the incident made its ineffaceable marks on me,
the meaning of which I am not yet able to
understand. Out of the conditions of such
strife it is possible that there have come values
in the chastening of my spirit, and in the
sobering of my thought toward a better companionship
with the great God. That afternoon
I knew there was a God, and I believed in him
to the degree that I was angry with him because
he kept me from killing old Jim. God had
actually driven me away from my purpose, but
I harbored the feeling and intent of murder. I
regretted the loss of the opportunity, and vowed
I would never lose another. It was an intense,
a burning, an all-consuming passion in me, all
that afternoon, from which I found no relief till
father came riding in at the gate shortly after
sunset.
   I had such a sleepless night that the family became
anxious about me. The feeling of murder
is an awful thing. Keep it out! Keep it out!
It takes so much to call the spirit from under its
deadening blast, so much to enthrone again the
sweeter fellowships of life. It is well to know
life, but it is also just as well not to have certain
kinds of experiences.
   
   





              CHAPTER VII.

   REUBEN BLANNERHASSETT.

   
      
   "My father fed his flocks, a frugal swain,
   Whose constant care was to increase his store,
   And keep his only son, myself, at home."
            
      --JOHN HOME.
   

WE are all civilized now. We have the
      pride of culture. We want it understood
we are up with the times. But I shall make
the contention that the remains of a savage life
are in us. The hunt and the chase, by heredity,
has its fascinations. We revel in the tales
of huntsmen. Love for the chase and for hunting
is a relic of the wild life of our barbarous
forefathers. Civilized as we are, we have our fine
hunting-dogs and our breech-loaders. We are
more splendidly equipped than the old hunters
were. What we lack in game, we make up in
powder and shot. We have to invent many
 


expedients to make hunting justifiable at all now.
One modern hunter puts it in this way: "The
exercise is worth the time, and the noise is
worth the ammunition; and if there be any game,
it is clear profit." The less the game, the greater
the equipment for the business. There is plenty
of hunting, but nothing to hunt; more guns
than ever, more fishing tackle; and no game in
the woods, no fish in the streams. These are
degenerate days. There are three or four hunters
to every partridge in the hedge. There are
a half-dozen boys (not counting the darkies) to
every rabbit in the grass. I saw two colored
men, the other day, send four loads of shot after
one poor little rabbit. O for the good old days
before shot-guns were invented--when marksmen
were not so unworthy as to resort to un-
fair means to capture the innocents of the forest!
To draw a bead for the placing of a single
bullet-that is fair. Let a rabbit jump up and
run off thirty or sixty yards, stop to see if
you are coming, push his ears up over the grass
to listen; then if you can bead him off-hand and
get him, he is rightly your meat; if not, you
could see him another day--no more that day.
Wild game, sir, had a fair chance in the olden
time. No violation of conscience in taking it.
You measured your powder from the ox-horn



into the rooster-spur charger, you poured it into
your gun; then you took your tallowed patching
from your left pants pocket; then you took a
bullet from your deerskin shot-pouch; then you
opened your old frogsticker, cut the patching
from around the bullet; then you pulled your
ramrod through the brass thimbles and pushed
the bullet down, gave it three raps to bounce
the ramrod out; then you primed the tube with
more powder, and picked it in with a brass pin;
then you put on the percussion-cap, and by that
time, if the game was not a mile away, it ought
to be shot dead on the spot.

   I am of the opinion that people in an early
day talked more than they do now; that is, in
what was to them a profitable way. The themes
were not of science or philosophy or art or
the latest cablegram from across the sea, but of
things within the sweep of their intellectual horizon.
The family life now is silenced greatly
by newspapers and books. Each blessed member
gets off in a corner, and holds fellowship
with strangers. The art of talking may yet be
lost, or it may be taught as one of the classics.
   The great log-fire in our cabin home invited
to enjoyment. The day's work over, the supper
finished, hickory wood-fire blazing brightly, and



the family in a semicircle around it, moving
back slowly as the coals get hotter, a neighbor
or two in to spend the evening, or a traveler
stopped over night,--this was the time for many
a marvelous recital. Tales, legends, Indian stories,
pioneer struggles, hunter's exploits,--with
these the moments flew till bedtime. These
fireside talks frequently produced scenes of dramatic
eloquence, great as was ever known in
ancient academic shades. No greater power
was ever given an orator than was seen in the
portrayals of these early-time folks. They were
nature's dramatists. So unaffected they were,
so unconsciously forceful, they were able to put
a thing in its best form. They never thought
of these fireside scenes as occasions of eloquent
expressions; but such they were. Beside them,
the modern looking-glass elocutionist would be
laughed to scorn. I have seen and know much
of the histrionic art, but I have never seen some
of the recitals of the fireside of my cabin home
excelled. The material dramatized was not art
or science or history, but pioneer hardship, and
adventure with wild animals, of fighting with Indians,
of rude sports, of love, of jealousy, and
domestic tragedy. Our fireside was a stage.
Father and mother, with the neighbors and
strangers, were the actors. I was the small



boy in the corner cracking hazel-nuts, and
watching the tragedy of life, which was real
fifty years before I was born, recited on that
stage. A boy in the backwoods, with healthy,
sensible people around him, has exceptional opportunities.
A child reared in the hotbeds of
aristocracy and wealth is to be pitied.
   I will give you several of these stories in
substance. As I heard them they can not be
put into print.  The types are dead things.
The tales which I have to relate shall begin
with the next chapter.
   I lacked the poetry of orphanage. My
life came under the matter-of-fact conditions
of having all the benefits of a good father and
mother. My father, for his day, was a remarkable
spirit. He would have been a significant
force in any day. He would have been among
the chief of citizens and financiers if his lot had
been cast in a great city. He was Scotch through
and through. He was a physical giant. These
were the days when personal pride centered in
muscular strength. It was pride of muscle instead
of pride of brains. The best man physically
in the neighborhood was always a leader
and a ruler. Men in the early time were very
much like the leaders of the wild herds. The
leader was always a strong, courageous fellow,



who had fought his way to the front through a
hundred battles without a single defeat.
   In mental temperament my father was a man
of action, and of lew words. He was in no
sense a theorist. His education was so limited
that he could not cipher in long division, but he
could make the most abstruse mathematical calculations
without knowing how he did it--that
is, without being able to tell how. All his plans
resolved themselves into action. I never knew
him to express a purpose that he was not in the
act of executing. When once committed to an
enterprise in business, he was never known
to give it up till completed. Difficulties only
nerved him. His business plans were to him
infallible. He believed in them so thoroughly
that every one of them got a fair trial, and almost
invariably led him to success.


   

   

   
               CHAPTER VIII.

   A BLACK WOLF.

  
     
        "My heart's in the Highlands, my heart is not here;
        My heart's in the Highlands a-chasing the deer."
       
 --BURNS.
  
   
   
   
     "O, what delight can a mortal lack,
     When he once is firm on his horse's back,
     With his stirrups short, and his swaffle strong,
     And the blast of the horn for his morning song ?"
   
   --CORNWALL.
   

AN aged Indian sits around the camp-fire,
     and regales the tribe with the deeds of his
own heroism. He exalts his own life. He tells
the same tale over for the hundredth time, and
it never loses in the recital. In this way many
an ordinary incident in Indian life has grown
into a heroic deed of daring.
   White people of the early day were given to
this sort of narrative, yet perhaps not so much to
the Indian weakness of magnifying. But in matters
    
   

of personal adventure, I have heard the same
thing over and over again. The first time you
hear a story, it has the interest of novelty; and
each time you hear it afterward, it lacks novelty,
but it takes hold of you more and more.
Its meaning grows into you. My child-mind
was so filled with pioneer exploits, the experiences
of people who lived near us, that I am
sure I shall never be able to get away from
them. The persons themselves, through my
life, have been associated with the contributions
they made to my stock of hunter's tales.
   Reuben Blannerhassett, my father, first settled
in Indiana, on the prairies south of Lafayette.
There he kept two grey-hound dogs for
the wolf hunt. He also kept, for the chase, a
full-blood Bertran horse, famous for speed and
endurance. The peculiar quality of this family
of horses was what was known then as bottom.
In his trials of speed with other horses, Bertran
had become famous for his staying qualities.
For these reasons he was king of the chase among
horses in the locality. He was kept for that and
nothing else. Having a rider with judgment,
he could veritably run all day. This magnificent
horse loved the chase, and always chafed
like a chained lion till he was set free on the
prairie after wolf or deer. He could overtake



the fleetest buck that ever ran over the ground,
and allow his rider to shoot at short range.
Many and familiar were the times when, with
only two or three hours to spare, the young
lover of the chase would loose Bertran from the
stall, throw over the saddle, fasten it with a
surcingle of platted buckskin thongs, put into
his mouth the smooth bit of a bridle ornamented
with trophies of the chase--four wolf-tails--one
at each side- of the browband, and one at each
ring in the bit. Whenever that bridle went on,
the fire would come into Bertran's eye, and he
was so restless then, that to mount him was to
to leap with him into the air. Bertran wanted his
keeper to get into the saddle, but he wanted him
to understand that, after he was in it, he would
need neither spur nor lash. The first note of
the horn that always hung at the saddle would
bring the great dogs to the scene, and they
moved out into the hunting-grounds at half
speed. Any day a wolf could be started in an
hour or such matter, and then, with the speed
of the wind, they would run a mile or two, and
the wolf would turn to bay. Then a rugged
battle of a minute, and all was over. The
horse's head would drop to pick at the tufts of
grass in reach of him; he would scent in a quiet
way the carcass of the animal just taken, take a



long breath, and then turn with his rider and
walk homeward as quietly as a family roadster.
   One morning Bertran was saddled for a half-
day's wolf-hunt. The hunter was soon in the
saddle, and a turn on the horn brought the dogs
bounding from the kennel. This day, horse and
dogs and rider were in unusual spirits. A half-
hour of brisk movement brought them into the
skirts of the famous Wea Plains. As luck would
have it, the dogs started, in the edge of the timber,
a black timber-wolf--or as ill-luck would have
it--for the dogs had flushed this old fellow two or
three times, and each time he would take down
the ravine and stay in the timber. In these cases
the dogs would be called off. A grey-hound, as
you know, runs by sight, and can not run in
the timber. He laps himself around trees and
bushes to his own destruction. His speed is
such, with his length, that he is not able to
make the quick turns necessary to miss the
trees. A black wolf is about a third larger
than a prarie-wolf, and he can run about a third
faster than any wild animal known. It was believed
by hunters that a grey-hound could not
catch him.
   This particular hunter, with his special
equipment, was particularly ambitious; and each
time this black wolf was started, he was wishing



that he might move out into open ground,
and give the dogs a chance. But the rider was
used to saying to his dogs in this case: "Come
here, Heakle; come back, Bruno; he is afraid
to cut out over the prairie."
   This morning the hunter was reining his
horse as near the bushes as possible, with a
faint hope that if the black wolf started from
this region of his hiding, he might be induced
to cross the open country. Of the two dogs,
Bruno was the elder; in fact, he had seen his
best days.  He was about twenty-six inches
high, pale-bluish ash in color, with a fine scent,
and always followed his prey with such speed
as to have never known defeat. He was a dog
of remarkable courage and sagacity. He had
about him a wolfish aspect, so much so that, had
it not been for his size, he would have been
marked with the disgrace of having a few drops
of wolf-blood in him. He was a pure greyhound.
So was Heakle, a fine young dog, who
did not really know his own speed. A prairie-
wolf did not tax him. He could play in front
of a deer at pleasure, and jump from side to
side. He knew Bertran could outrun him, and
that is all. As they expected, the black wolf
started from the grass directly; but, to their 
astonishment, and in a daring way, he started out



over the prairie, as if intending to cross it to the
timber, which was out of sight on the other
side. The horse first caught sight of the wolf,
and went into the air in a moment. The hunter
gave a yell that brought both dogs with a great
leap into the air to sight the game. Bruno got
the direction; but the young dog was behind a
covert of bushes, and lost time by running in the
wrong direction till he got the course of the
chase by the yells.
   Bruno was in the lead; the horse and rider
next, as if to say, "Now, you black varmint, if
you go out over there, you must go in a hurry."
Before the young dog caught the direction,
they were in the short grass of the open prairie
a hundred yards away ; but with every leap in
this time, the hunter's yell helped the old dog
to cover his distance. This wolf had been used
to having a spurt through the timber, then a
rest; so, unwary of his danger, Bruno crept on
him for the first half mile. Four rods between
them. Horse and rider just behind. The young
dog coming. Now begins the battle. Will this
team fail to take the fastest game in the forest,
and with a fair chance? Horse and rider urge
the old dog up to two rods, but not another inch.
Everything is on its mettle now. The rider is
lost in the wild excitement. Bruno is stirred to



his work as never before. He runs with all the
canine expectation that had never known defeat
in a fair chance, so it is his first experience in a
halting game. The wolf bounds ahead. The
old dog gains an inch now, and then loses it.
   The great horse is on fire. He scents the
game, and every nerve is awake--every muscle
at full play. His nostrils are dilated, the fine
foam flying from his mouth and striking the
hunter in the face; his powerful lungs are in
complete action, and, with a heavy man on him,
he leaps like a hart, and has to be held in. On
they go. The old dog is urged to heroic work.
"Now, now, Bruno, if you ever did go, take
him now--take him now--now--now!" The
wolf has gained a length, and the hunter loses
hope. He turns in his saddle: "Heakle, Heakle!
Come on, come on! Bruno can't get him!"
   The young dog is coming; but it is a fearful
distance to make up, when blue lightning leads
the chase. "Go now, Bruno; go now! If you
were two years younger you would get him!
You are twenty feet away now, Bruno. Five
more feet, and he flinches. Ho! Bertran, ho!
Ho steady now--go, old boy--go--go!" Dog
and wolf are now to their limits. There is not
a break or falter in the fearful race of life and
death. They are all running without a sound,


      



   A NINE-MILE CHASE.





except the hunter's urging voice--running as
smoothly as the rocking of the billows on the
ocean as the storm goes to sleep. The timber
comes into view on the other side. "Heakle,
Heakle! Here you come! Hurrah! Now,
Bruno! Don't let Heakle get him! Don't let
Heakle get him, old boy! Make him miss his
jump, Bruno!" There! The wolf's tail drops,
his head goes up, he whirls around; the old dog
plunges at him and goes by, receiving a gash in
his shoulder. Young dog and wolf clinch.
Horse and rider go by, turn round. Heakle is
in battle with the wolf. The hunter dismounts,
and quickly unbuckles from the saddle the strap
and heavy steel stirrup, ready to help with a
stroke from it, if needed.
   There is no need. The young dog already
has his last hold, and is making up for being
behind in the race.
   The dismounted hunter is now holding the
wounded dog from returning to the encounter;
has pulled him down in the grass, and as he
lays there panting, he kisses him again and
again, saying, over and over: "You got him,
Bruno; you got him, you got him!"
   The victorious young huntsman rises to take
his bearings, and finds that he is nine miles from
the starting-point of the chase. The distance



startles him. He looks at his horse. There he
stands--a pitiful sight, trembling in every limb.
Bruno staggers to his feet. The hunter hurriedly
scalps the wolf, leaving the carcass lying
in the grass, and takes the reins and leads the
horse home, followed by the dogs.
   Old Bruno never caught another wolf. His
days for the chase were then over. He never
could rally himself to keep in sight of a wolf
again. The wound in his shoulder made him
permanently lame. Bertran had at last been
outwinded. He never entered the chase again.
He hacked about the farm, and had kindly care;
but to his last days, if the hounds would bellow
on the trail in hearing, he would stamp in his
stall, and sniff the air with as much spirit as
in the day when his feet were as fleet as the
wind.
   The young pioneer and huntsman had his
regrets over his horse and dog. But he would
have put his own body to the same limits under
the same excitement. It may be said that
things like this are lacking in the nobler elements
of reason. But are they? Is not this in
essence the heroic in life? Does the spirit of
heroism and conquest in action always have to
give a moral account of itself? May not that
chase be a picture of the life we are living? Do



those who are never moved by such a spirit
ever get anywhere, or accomplish anything?
Those who never give themselves over to the
soul's impulses, wrought into action by whatever
is able to call out its energies, never reach
achievments worth naming. They are of those
left behind in the race of life. They are the
stay-at-homes. They are the pussies-in-the-
corner--sleek and fine and well fed, but without
energy enough to catch a mouse.
   Life is a chase. The game is up. Shall we
capture or lose it? What do you say? The
turns life will take, and the amount of energy
suddenly to be summoned, can not be estimated
long beforehand. A faint heart will not win in
the chase. A purpose to win which is so virile
at times as to make no estimate of distance or
cost is the purpose that has heroism in it, and
the swing of conquest. Life is this sort of a
struggle. Immortality is a struggle. Have you
the stuff in you to get immortality? If you
have, you shall have it. Yonder is your goal.
Do you see it? Get there! Get there, if it
costs you effort, and time, and dollars, and
friends; if you have to burn the candle at both
ends--if you die.
   But suppose the goal, good enough in itself,
is not worth all of this. It is so that the



object in life may not be equal to the energy
and sacrifice made to achieve it. A laconic
preacher once described a great genius in literature,
who had thrown the force of his immense
talents in a direction in which the
preacher thought there was nothing possibly
commensurate with the great ability devoted
to it, as "a spiritual giant, sitting on the
tombstone of hope, cracking hazelnuts with
a sledge-hammer." There are cases in which
this is true, and we are not now wholly to
defend this hunter. But how are we always
to know that the end will justify the means?
How   are we always to know when it will
justify them? Are we always to stand around
till the infallible certainties of prophecy declare
we may take our hands from our pock-
ets? In these cases, where the end does not
justify the means--in the times when we have
run a mile to crush a butterfly in our hands--is
there any compensation? To be lost in the
impulse of an enterprise--that is great, unless
the enterprise be evil. That wolf was not worth
a good dog and a good horse, but THE CHASE
WAS.
   That which is objectively gained in life may
not be worth what it costs; but the effort made
to get it has its value. Have I paid for things



more than they are worth, and is my life therein
the loser? If by any overplus of payment the
struggle of my life has been intensified in any
degree, the thews of my soul by that struggle
have been drawn out. My own effort has put
its own sunshine into me, and in the final
product I have been the gainer. Heaven!--
where is it? I do not know, but I know the
race I make for it will put into my spirit its
substance by the time I have reached it.


      

      


                CHAPTER IX.

      A PANTHER'S SKIN.

       
          
           "A fireplace filled the room's one side
          With half a cord o' wood in--
          There war n't no stoves (till comfort died)
            To bake ye to a puddin'."
         
         --LOWELL.
       

WHAT wild freedom and naturalness in the
       relations of men and women in the earlier
days! I shall be pardoned if I express the
opinion that men and women were better mated
then than now. False ideas of social caste
were not in the way then as now. "Sassiety"
is frequently scandalized now over some blue-
blood of a boy or girl marrying below rank.
Frequently these escapades are mistakes, but
they are more significantly declarations of revolt
against the conventionalism of society. The
barriers of station and rank in life may work
    


desirable things for certain families and certain
classes; but they are not the better conditions
for the race. The relations of the sexes, under
the moral standard, should be controlled more
by nature than by the cobwebs of owlish philosophy
and iron-bound social custom. It is
now and then the thing for the scion of titled
nobility to defy the courts and his regal grandmothers,
and go out and marry some buxom
country lass, and put a strain of fresh, clean
blood into the well-pedigreed and well-run-out
family line.
   It is often a benediction to the tenderly-cared-
for house-flower of a daughter, reared in wealth,
when she shocks her set by declaring in favor of
some rough-handed country greeny--not only on
the ground that there is sure to be outcome in
him, but for the ill-apprehended reason that the
attrition of her life against the sober, practical
sense of his, will give to her the added feature
of her experience and training so necessary to
the full rounding of her womanhood.
   Is it not so that a man of spirit is nearly
always popular with the ladies? A woman, as a
rule, admires a courageous and manly man. So
a woman is attractive to a man in the degree
that she is womanly. There are mannish women,
and womanish men; but they are the



exceptions. They are variations from type.
There is that indescribable sum of qualities
which constitutes our ideal of woman. It is
the splendid feminine spirituelle we call woman.
Tennyson says:

    
    "For woman is not undeveloped man,
    But diverse. Could we make her as the man,
    Sweet love were slain. His dearest bond is this,
    Not like to like, but like in difference."
    

    The man who never felt love in his heart for
a pure woman is a stranger to one of the highest
emotions of the soul. Woman is the feeder
of the fountain of love in man's heart, by which
he is made strong and good and great. No
man is ever really strong until he falls down at
the feet of the woman he loves.
   Fond as Reuben Blannerhassett was of the
society of good women, he lived to be an old
bachelor; and, as would naturally follow, his
social life was not devoid of an occasional escapade.
What reasons these may have had for
his living to be an old bachelor, I do not know.
I only know that he did a smart thing for himself
when he did get married. There was
always an immense spirit of raillery about him
when he would volunteer to give mother an
account of the times he had with many a fine
girl before he ever knew her. She would sit



and look into the fire while he drew the pictures--
and right largely on his imagination for much
of the coloring, until he came to the right place--
and she would silence him by wondering why
he did not take some of them.
   Before the fireplace in our house on all
special occasions, to answer for a rug, lay the
tanned skin of an immensely large panther.
Many an hour I have played on this rug, and
stuck my fingers into the holes for the eyes.
One night I found a hole in the head-piece
above the eye. Mother knew that father had
killed that panther when quite a young man,
and that it pleased him to have it before him
near the hearth. One night she started him
by asking:
   "That hole in the head there, Reuben--is
that the place where the bullet went in?"
   "Well, well, there is a hole there besides for
the eyes. I had almost forgotten. I must tell
you about that now, since your name is Louise
Blannerhasset, and you are safe. That came
about by going a-sparkin'. One night in the
break of winter (and this was long before I
knew you, my dear, so it will make no particular
difference to you) I took my best girl to singing-
school. We walked. The place was a mile the
other side of her house. Her folks lived across.



the hurricane, as we called it--a stretch of timber
a mile and a half wide, which had been fearfully
wrecked with a cyclone. There was no
road through it, only a foot-path, to be trailed
by those who knew it. It is not necessary to say
to you that I was well acquainted with that
path."
   "Never mind about that; go on with your
story," said mother.
   "One night I was over there in peach-time.
Her mother had filled the lower bureau-drawer
with fine peaches; and, after the folks had retired,
we went back to that drawer and opened it, but
we did not take a peach."
   "Certainly, certainly, not one. I expect you
to say, next, that peaches were always ripe when
you went over there. Of course, I understand
you now to say that in the latter part of winter
these peaches were ripe--"
   "No, not that; this was another time. One
time I went over and stayed over night, and
next morning I forgot to put my vest on with
my coat, and had to return for the vest. I
stayed over night with the folks in all bad
weather; but I had to go in bad weather. Another
morning I could not get my boots on. I
pulled till I saw stars. It was no use. I had
to split them down in front."



   "You were certainly a blooming youth. I
can partly see now how I happened to get you.
But if you make it up as you go along, you will
contradict yourself again. What about the panther?
There must have been some reality
about that."
   "O yes; I forgot. A heavy rain had fallen
while we were at the singing, and the road
was full of water. There must have been twenty
places between there and home, where I had to
carry her over the water in the road. It was
an awful job, I tell you. And she was no
midget. She had weight as well as beauty. The
last place was a long space of water. I came
very near having to put her down in the middle
of the pond to get a new hold; but a smart box
on my ear reminded me that chivalry without
strength in a man was nothing, and I rallied
myself to the heroic work of reaching the edge.
My ear smarts a little yet. Is it not red?"
   "Slightly, yes. But why do n'tyou get to
your panther story, some time or other?"
   "I was just coming to that. I took my girl
home. We did not swing on the gate. There
was none. We sat on the front fence a while,
and she went in the house, and I started home
across the hurricane. To say that I was in a
pleasant state of mind is no exaggeration."




   "The dictionary has the word prolix in it--
that's you, Reuben."
   "Yes; but I want to enjoy that side of it as
long as posssible; for the other is not so pleasant.
The visit had a tragic close. This hurricane
was a wild, desolate region. The Indians had
not camped here for several years; but it
abounded in wild game--such as frequent the
upland regions. As I said to you, I was occupied
with pleasant thoughts, until my attention
was directed to a slight noise, off quite a distance.
I was used to noises while passing through the
woods, and, for a time, paid no attention to it.
Presently there was a scratching in the leaves
somewhat nearer. My first thought was that it
was my dog come to me; and, if so, he would
present himself in a moment. I still paid but
little attention. I saw directly that it was some
wild animal. It was keeping pace with me about
a hundred feet away in the bushes, and it would,
now and then, throw the leaves behind it with
great vigor. I was not exactly at ease; for I saw
it was directing its course by mine. I kept in the
path without increasing or slackening my speed.
I was unarmed, except an old barlow-knife in my
pocket. I was apprised directly of the whole
situation. A hideous scream transfixed me. It
was not so loud, but it went through me like a



knife. I pushed down my hat, and went on.
There was nothing else to do. It was folly to
run. It was equal folly to provoke attack.
Must I be torn to pieces by this panther? It
was evidently hungry. Another scream. Horrors!
what a sound! Nature gave the panther
its scream to unnerve its prey. What a strange
mesmeric power this animal life about us has!
I was so helpless in the face of the danger, and
with nothing that I could do but walk along the
path, and wait developments, that I actually fell
to thinking of the fearful power those screams
were having on me in spite of my will.
   "I had known something of the mesmeric
force of animal life since my childhood. I had
been entertained and amused by it, but I had
never experienced anything like this. I have
watched the performances of a snake charming
the mother bird--so intently once, that I came
under the spell of it. I remember another time
having climbed a rafter of the barn to examine a
bat; and when I poked him with a straw, he uttered
such a horrid and galvanic little squeak,
that my nerves let go my muscles, and I brought
up twenty feet below, in the hay. More than
once have my nerves been unstrung by the
piercing cry of the rabbit, and in the moment
of the cry it has escaped from my hands. The



dog has this mesmerism in his growl. The
lion has it in his roar. Nearly all birds have it
in a limited degree in the distressing notes they
give when captured.
   "But, alas! these were all playthings to the
terrorizing awfulness of this noise. I know I
am not lacking in physical courage. And I was
not born in the woods to be scared by an owl.
But in spite of my will toward self-possession, I
felt that these two screams had taken half my
strength from me, and I fully expected to have
to fight that animal naked-handed, and in that
condition.  The thing ran ahead of me fifty
yards or more, and went up a scrubby oak near
the path. I knew the tree. I preferred to
meet its spring from the ground, and I left the
path for a point in it farther down, and about
fifty yards beyond. After reaching the path
again, I walked on only to hear the panther
scratching the bark of the oak-tree coming
down. I knew then he was still in pursuit. I
walked slowly, and with firmness. To show
either fight or fear meant to bring on the battle.
Suddenly all fear left me, as I made up my
mind to take whatever might come. I remembered
God's promise that man should have dominion
over the beasts of the field. I heard no
sound for a few minutes, but I knew he was



coming down that path like a sleuth-hound after
me. I walked on until I knew that he was
near; and I turned round and there he was, not
three rods away. The issue had come, and I
rushed at him with an awful 'Down, down, you
cowardly beast!' and he slunk away into the
brush. I turned and walked on. He followed
me, and kept even along the side of the path,
throwing the leaves, and appearing at irregular
distances in the brush. I finally came
to a smooth wagon-road, less than a quarter
from the house. I knew every foot of the
ground, and I decided to run. And I did not
stand on the going. Under headway, and feeling
pretty safe, suddenly my dog went past
me like a shot, and did not return till morning.
I went into the house, and slammed the door so
hard that it waked all the sleepers.
   "Once inside, I had the comfortable home
feeling. Verily, there is no place like home. I
was so exhausted with my nervous strain that I
went to sleep on touching the bed; but I was
up next morning by daylight. I cleaned my
rifle with tow and hot water, molded fifty new
bullets, loaded the gun finely, and made for the
hurricane to hunt for that panther. The old dog,
who seemed to have had an experience, went
along. For that day I followed the dog, 



hoping he would give me some clue to the place
of the beast. I wanted sight of that animal
for a minute or two in open daylight. I spent
from daylight till dark of the next five days
hunting for that panther. I traversed, I thought,
every possible place of hiding for twenty miles
around. I was encouraged by news of his
screams at night.   I heard none of these,
for I was not out when I could not see the
bead of my gun. One morning I was encouraged
in finding the carcass of a pig he had evidently
devoured the night before. By Friday
I became weary of the fruitless search, as it
seemed to be. My tramps through the woods
were without variety; for so intense was my desire
to get sight of this animal, that I refused
shots at the finest game, for fear the report of
my rifle might drive him farther away.
   "It was about the middle of the afternoon
on Saturday that I turned my steps homeward
out of the big bend of the Wabash bottom,
intending to give up the hunt. I had not
gone more than twenty steps when the dog
struck a trail that excited him. He would
only follow it in a walk, and with a sniff and
a growl very unusual in him. There was
no wagging of the tail, and he evidently did
not enjoy it. Whatever this is, I said, it is big



game. I followed him slowly down into the
black land, across about two hundred yards of
overflow bottom of the heaviest sycamore and
swamp-elm. We passed through a thick covert
into a clump of low-limbed black-walnut trees.
The dog suddenly stopped, and began a low
growl, which ended in a whine. His actions
distressed me; for he seemed to know where the
game was, and was unwilling to give me any
clue to it. He would follow the trail out from
me fifty feet or more, then quit it and return to
me with his hair standing straight all around.
He refused to go forward when I urged him. My
blood was up, for I knew I was in for something
more than usual. I cocked the gun. I kept the
dog in front of me till I saw from his eye the
game was not on the ground. There it was, in the
huge fork of a walnut-tree not twenty feet from
the ground, only the head and shoulders visible.
I felt for my hunter's knife. It was in its place.
I drew a bead on his left eye, but as I touched
the trigger he moved his head slightly, and I
was not sure of my shot. He threw his head
up--gave two or three savage snaps of the
jaws, then reeled over the other side of the limb,
and was out of sight a moment; then he came
crashing to the ground. I began loading, but
there was no movement. I finished loading,



and approached the place where the animal lay;
and I was a little too exultant to be cautious.
The body had stopped quivering, and I could
detect no breathing. Certainly that bullet had
gone through his brain, and the time of my
reward had come. I was in ten feet of where
he lay, and saw the movement of his eye as he
caught sight of me; and quick as thought he
whirled on his belly and leaped into the air,
and was upon me. I had no time to aim. I
threw up the gun with my left hand and he
caught the gun-barrel in his teeth; and the
gun-stock received the blow of his left claw;
but his right fore-claw came over my left
shoulder, while one hip and the other thigh received
his hind-feet, each talon lacerating my
flesh. I put my knife into him in a moment,
and he fell over dead. I found in a minute that
I was fearfully wounded. The blood began to
run down my back; but how badly my flesh
was torn there, I could not know. My shoulder-
blade felt as if it had been lifted from my back.
The blood spurted from both hip and thigh.
It looked as if I must bleed to death. I put
my hands on hip and thigh to stop the bleeding.
My shoulder wound soon stopped bleeding,
and so did my hip; but the cut in the thigh
had severed an artery, and I could not stop it,



only as I held it with my hands. The nearest
house I knew, in the direction of home, was
two miles. I left the game and my gun in the
woods, and undertook to make the distance.
   "Before dark I reached the cabin of John
Hennesy. John did not know me at first, and
he said:
   "'Great God, man! what is the matter? You
are covered with blood.'
   "'I got my panther, John, and maybe he has
got me.'
   "'Why, Rube Blannerhasset! you are so
bloody I did not know you. Come in. Here,
wife, help this man. I knew you had been hunting
that varmint ever since he interfered with
your sparkin' business. You were bound to have
things out of the way of your crossing the
hurricane. Did you miss your shot? Rather
an unlikely thing for you.'
   "'I could only see his head, and he moved
it just as I fired, and it turned out that I had
to shoot him with my knife. That is how I got
scratched. Go for the doctor, John, and let him
fix these wounds, and then I will tell you where
he is, with the gun.'
   "John was off in a minute, and in two hours
the doctor was there. The neighborhood was
there, and they held a jubilee over the dead



panther. During the time my wounds were
healing I tanned that pelt with alum and wood-
ashes. And you have made a floor rug of it.
They say in New York that would be considered
a luxury. A wild panther-skin rug on our floor
is quite an amount of style for backwoodsers;
and we can only afford it because I went to see
that girl--long before I ever knew you, who are
now Louise Blannerhassett."
   "It was an ill wind that blew a little good,"
said my mother; and the candle was blown out
for the night.







   CHAPTER X.

   WITCHES.

     
        
        "When the fire out-doors burns merrily,
        There the witches are, making tea."
        
                                  --WHITTIER.
     

 IT is not very strange that in an early day
   many people should believe in witches.
Their rude minds never had more than the
touch of a half-civilized life. They were in no
sense responsible for being ignorant of the reflective
values which education brings. It was
only natural, therefore, and to be expected of
them, that they should have some explanation
of the occult and mysterious mental and physical
forces which had their full play among these
strong-minded and strong-bodied, but uncultured
people. It was then as it is always--some
one mind, coming to a conclusion and proclaiming
it, makes converts, and gets itself on the



forefront of attention; and it holds the day,
though born of superstition--itself a superstition.
It is frequently so that a whole commu-
nity comes to believe the vagaries of a single
mind. Shall we ever be free from these perplexing
moral and psychic forces that have such
marvelous interplay between the life terrestrial
and the life celestial? Is it desirable to get rid
of them, except in the sense of driving the dominion
of mystery before us as we advance in
the knowledges? This is the only world, so far
as we know, where the instincts of the animal
are linked with the aspirations of a God. And
it may be that this is the world in which God
has linked his two codes--the physical and
spiritual. We do not know but this is the procreating
ground of the universe. But we do
know that we are here in the edges of what we
believe to be the spiritual world, and that we
frequently lose our bearings and follow the ignus
fatuus into the swamps. These mysterious
laws, concerning the operation of which we yet
know but little, were hung about with superstitious
notions then, in a greater way than now;
and they produced a class of phenomena peculiar
to the time.
   The spirit of investigation into the ground of
things was not as keen then. The earlier years

   

of a nation's life are of the poetical cast rather
than the scientific. The poetical spirit personates
all forces. The scientific spirit has no use
for a personal pronoun.
    The explanations given certain facts, as these
 people knew them, were the best the mind could
 do for itself, lacking knowledge. The mysteries
 of life do not get rid of the facts of life; and the
 physical laws with which we are acquainted do
 not explain all facts, or account for all facts, by
 any means.
   Of course I believed in witches with the
other folks. My idea of a witch was a toothless
old hag, visible and invisible at will, and possessed
with power to torment people with whom
displeased. I never saw a witch; but like others,
I have suffered a hundred deaths in expectation
of seeing one. Until I was quite a boy I supposed
I had saved my life several times by running
from them. The witch stories I heard
when I was a boy were grim-visaged affairs.
There was a particularly peculiar character in
the country, who was not so much a vagabond
as possessed with a penchant for going from
house to house, staying over night, and regaling
the people with his talk. He thought himself
a great conversationalist. He was not a bore,
or a sponge, but a stayer over night. He did



not expect an invitation to stop with people.
He would walk in, take off his hat, and, when
the meal was ready, take his seat at the table.
It never seemed to enter his mind that people
might not want him, or that it could possibly
be inconvenient to keep him. He was a glib
talker. You had hardly time yourself to think
whether you wanted him or not, he talked so
incessantly. From the time he entered the
door, till he was out of sight, he talked. Most
people enjoyed him. His intelligence was above
the average. He knew it, and presumed on it,
and no doubt regarded himself somewhat in the
light of a philanthropist. Into the monotonous
life of many an early home he went, and furnished
it a little variety from the humdrum of
daily toil. He was a walking cyclopedia of
country news. He answered the purpose of a
local newspaper. He was like the interlude in
a Church hymn. He gave you time to get your
breath, and that in a realistic way; because you
could hardly get in a word edgeways. Mother's
opinion of him was, that he liked a change ot
victuals, and that, while he was not lazy--that is
to say, lazy--he could stand a vast amount of
rest. Timothy Copenhaver was this man's
name, and his forte was a witch story. He
either believed in them or not, as suited the



occasion. He could spin them out of his own
brain like webs from a spider. Whenever I
knew he was to be with us over night, I managed
to get to bed and asleep before he got
started. In the times I failed in this, I fought
witches all night in my sleep. Mother saw this,
and managed to help me get to sleep. But I
suffered greatly under this man's witch stories.
In memory of my own suffering, I want to enter
here my protest against telling witch stories to
children. The child-mind is too pliable; it is
too wholly unprotected, and is not able to detect
the difference between the real and the mythical
in human speech. It takes all these apprehensions
as realities, and broods over them, and conjures
pictures more horrid, and adds to them,
till the young life is a flood of fears.
   Now, I want to contradict my preaching, and
tell a witch story; but its features will be of
the milder sort, and I give it partly for the business
there is in it, and as characteristic of the
time. The spring I was seven years old, we
sold our improved farm, with the intention of
going farther west. Father made a trip of inspection,
and returned without finding a satisfactory
location. Three miles south of us was
a farm of two hundred and forty acres, of great
natural richness and beauty, owned by one Tom



Dorkey.   Dorkey believed in witches. The
witches had always had entirely too much to do
with his affairs. For many years, off and on,
he was bothered. His baulky horses were bewitched.
That was his interpretation of it. The
ordinary interpretation of a baulky horse, however,
is a baulky man. The witches would get
into his cows, and make them give bloody milk.
They would ride his hogs into the woods, and
run them wild. The witches would spoil his
wife's soap. They would attack Dorkey personally.
They would put splinters into his
eyes. He could never go to Manning's grocery
without being kept till late in the night, and
then be put on his horse with his face to the
rear. They would pull the corks out of his
whisky-jugs and upset them--a most cruel and
grievous offense this. They would take him
out of his bed at night, and ride him over the
country, barefooted and freezing. One night
they hitched him to a gate-post, and went off
and left him. Where he was he did not know.
It was a strange and peculiar place. He thought
he would mark that gate-post with his teeth, so
that he might find it the next day. He arose
next morning to find he had been trying the
bed-post with his teeth. The witches kept getting
worse with Dorkey, and he made up his



mind to move. He was looking around for a
buyer when father met him. The trade was
soon made, and a fair price was agreed upon.
To clinch the trade, father paid him three hun-
hundred dollars. This was before getting a
deed. After the trade had been made a few
days, the witches with Dorkey had been getting
better, he said, and he was about to "back out."
Things then were in such a shape that if he
did, father would probably lose his three hundred
dollars. I do not know precisely how that
was, but one foundation for the fear was that
Dorkey was tricky, as well as superstitious. So
it came to pass, as the witches got better with
Dorkey, they got worse with father. It was
known that he took more interest in the witches
in this case, than in all the tales he had ever
heard Copenhaver spin. He wished no man any
harm, but he would venture to wish that Dorkey
would have another bad spell. He would
lie awake at night, and wish that that very
night the witches might give Dorkey another
twist, so he could get his deed. This man Dorkey
had the constant services of a witch-doctor,
Elkin Snider. Snider was too lazy to work, but.
a little too sharp for the majority of people in
the country. He made a splendid living out of
their superstitions. He had already impoverished



Dorkey. A witch-doctor, you know, can
not charge, and be paid a regular fee. You just
put all the money you have in your outside
coat pocket--on the left side. If there is any
reserve, mental or financial, Ananias and Sapphira-like,
it will not work. The witch-doctor
puts his hand in that pocket, and takes out a
sum each trip. The amount is never to be
counted, even by himself. One morning, after
the witches had been distressingly quiet with
Dorkey for more than a month, father mounted
his horse and rode over to see Snider. He rode
up to the gate, and called the doctor out. He
told him he had bought Dorkey's farm, and
that he was about to renege, and that he needed
to be doctored for the witches till he was made
honest enough to stand by his contract, or re-
fund the money paid. Father handed him five
dollars. Snider took the money, and, without
looking at it, put it in his pocket, and turned
abruptly around, and walked back into his
cabin, and shut the door. Father saw that his
interview with Snider had ended. He was puzzled
and displeased. But there was not much
help for the situation. Here was one man a
professional hypocrite; another engaged, to say
the least, in a little sharp practice. There was
a sense in which both understood the other 


  
perfectly. Neither believed in witches. Both had
pecuniary interests in the beliefs of other people
just then. As his money had gone out,
father wanted a little more light on the subject;
but he did not get it. He sat in his saddle at
the gate a few minutes, and then he said, in a
rather commanding way:
   "Hello, Snider--hello!"
   Snider came to the door again, and father
said:
   "I just want to say, that if things do n'tturn
out all right, your hide won't hold shucks."
   Snider, in a very solemn way, made a great
salaam of a bow, and shut the door in his face
again.
   There was nothing for the sharp practice
man to do, but to turn his horse and go home.
But he was full of puzzled reflections. He
thought of the Negro's remark, that "A white
man is mighty onsartin." He could at least
say there was something in the witch business.
He had five dollars in it, and probably three
hundred more. He had no doubt about that
five dollars doing the work, unless there was a
ten-dollar interest on the Dorkey side. Of that
he could not be sure. Some things time alone
will tell.
   Snider went over to see Dorkey that 



afternoon.   He prognosticated around for more
than two hours. He did a vast amount of
mysterious maneuvering. He burned cobwebs
in the fire, and noticed that they did not make
a blaze. He lit a candle, and burned rosin in
the flame, and noticed that the smoke went
west in the room. He examined Dorkey's 
finger-nails, and then he began to look so serious,
that the deluded man became alarmed, and be-
gan with his questions.
   "How is it, Doc? How does she stand?"
   The great doctor hesitated, but finally said:
   "Bad enough; this is the worst case I ever
saw. Do you want me now to be plain with
you?"
   "Well, I do n'twant any more torment. I
have had enough of that from the witches."
   "I might as well tell you. If my superior
powers do not save a life when they may, then
I am unworthy of my gifts. Dorkey, the
witches have planned to kill you; and if you
do not cross the Wabash within sixty days, you
will not be alive. Your safety is in getting out
of this combination. Beyond the Wabash you
will have peace. Mark my words, Dorkey;
mark my words!"
   The trade was closed, and the balance of the
purchase money paid over, and Dorkey was



across the great waters in due time, and was
never bothered with the witches any more.
   Is it right to work sharp practice on a man--
to play on his credulity to induce him to be
honest? I do not know. That is an ethical
distinction too fine for me. I leave that to the
ethical professors. I put down the facts, which,
I presume, are of more interest to psychology
than to moral science.
   Inside knowledge of this little history, as it
occurred, had, to me, the value of relieving my
mind of all fears on the subject of witches. I
could thenceforward enjoy Copenhaver, and
sleep after his monstrous recitals.
 



      
      

                CHAPTER XI.

   DANIEL AND THE GREAT DIPPER.
   

   "The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament
      sheweth his handy work.
   Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night shew-
   eth knowledge."                
   --PSALM.


THE summer I was eight years old, we moved
    to the witch-farm.   The money received
for Hazelgreen place had been put into it, and
there was quite a sum left to invest in stock.
We learned shortly that the Great Northwest,
which was then Wisconsin and Minnesota, was
in need of stock cattle. The condition out there
was that of a newly-settled country, without its
first equipment of stock. We decided to buy
and drive into that region. For making this
trip we had additional reason that mother's
health was breaking, and it needed recruiting
by rest and travel, and outdoor life in summer.
When our physician heard of the enterprise, he
 


said: "Go, by all means." From fall till spring
found us busy in preparation for the expected
trip, to be taken the next spring and summer.
There was one covered wagon, with an ox-team
to haul the heavier equipments for camping--
such as tents and provisions, and camp-stove
and bedding, and the hundred smaller things
necessary in a company of seven persons in all.
The ox-team became the leaders of the herd--
three hundred head in all. We also had a mule-
team hitched to a spring-hack. This hack had
double covers for mother's protection.
   The day we started, I was made the owner
of a little five-year-old yellow-roan horse, with a
new bridle and a saddle and whip. Father
says:
   "Rodney, he is yours, and you are to ride
him to Minnesota, and drive cattle all the way."
   We were then in an hour of turning into the
road. I led my new possession to the fence and
mounted, and was as proud a boy as ever held
a rein. Up to this time I had never known anything
like regular employment. I had worked a
few whole days, and was, with all boys, impressed
with the dignity of constant labor. Here was a
thing in which I could do a man's work. So,
with all the ecstasy of my first possession on me,
I undertook my first great job. For three



months from that morning I never slept in a
house, and never lost a day. It was my business,
with the help of a quaint-looking shepherd-dog,
to bring up the rear. Father, with the men,
skirted the sides, and kept the cattle in the
highway. The men took charge of the cattle
at night, in which it was required that some
one be awake all the time, to be ready in case
of storm to keep the cattle from wandering, and
in case of fright to protect the camp from the
massed rushes they were sure to make. My
business at night was to sleep. I attended to
that faithfully. The men say that a storm one
night blew the tent over, and the pelting rain
poured into my face for three minutes, and I did
not wake. That is doubtless apocryphal. The
poetry of this journey and work was gone the first
day. What a long, weary road it was!--day after
day, with that dog as my only companion, and
with one of the men dropping back to hailing distance
occasionally, and with an occasional glimpse
of the wagons a mile ahead, and all the way between
a long line of cattle, only two or three
deep in the road, trudging along like the trained
soldiers of an army. My business was to keep
up the laggers, and, of necessity, I must perpetually
nag the lazy brutes, who would get out of
sight behind if not urged. That little roan-horse



turned out to be the quintessence of laziness.
I wore out my cowhide the first week, and was
refurnished with a spur on each heel. Eight
hundred miles of this sort of travel I had; and
I was not large enough to get on my horse out
in the prairie without lengthening the stirrup-
strap, and then taking it up again after mounting.
After a few days I took the journey as a
matter of course. I spent my time nudging up
the same lazy brutes, which not only invariably
dropped to the rear, but took the same side of
the road, day after day. I would whip a certain
one on a particular spot for a day, then I would
change the spot. I finally learned the art of
getting bullets from the shot-pouch in the ox-
wagon, splitting them half-way with my pocket-
knife, and pinching them over the new whip-
cracker of each morning. I was astonished at
the amount of persuasion there was in that
bullet. The lazy things began soon to dread me,
as they would a bald hornet, for that bullet
raised the same kind of a welt.
   Out of the lonesomeness and monotony of
this long journey I got three things. I became
as skillful with a cattle-whip as a Texan cow-
boy. I became a great roadside observer. In
cattleand horse and dog there was no variety.
But there was endless variety of view in going



over a strange road. There were different kinds
of soil, and rocks, and shrubs, and flowers, and
trees. Every turn in the road had a new picture.
Many a long, weary day was lost in the
newness of view which nature gave. To get
sight of a body of water was always a great attraction.
To know that we were to travel up
the bank of a river for a few miles was a paradise
in prospect. A river-road is not a track
along which people go to get somewhere. It
is an art-gallery. You see landscape paintings
there by a master. The eye never tires of the
view. Now a gulch and a shallow ford; now a
bluff of rugged rocks; now a great bend in
the river, with ducks scudding away up its
waters; now a plunge into a dense overgrowth
of trees, where the shadows stay through the
noontide; now the bursting of a great spring
from the rocks, and running across the road to
dash into a spray among the fragments and
boulders below; now the kerplunk of a turtle
from a log; now a great, pearly-sided beauty
showing himself above the water; now the
shrill notes of a kingfisher; now the sunshine
laying a sheen of gold clear across the river,--
all this had endless charms for my soul.
   It was the loneliness of this journey, the solitariness
of my work, and the vexing and



patience-taxing nature of it, that, first of all,
drove me to look about me for some relief and
diversion. I found it in the voices of nature.
From the Wabash to St. Paul I can see every
turn in that road to-day. Necessity often puts
upon us a habit. One time it is good--another
time it is bad. In this case the habit has been
a benediction to my life. It is the habit of observation
of roadside beauties. And by beauty
we mean all that is quaint, or picturesque, or
sublime. To this day it is a positive delight to
me to travel any country-road for the first time,
for the changes and for the freshness of view it
gives.
   There came to me also from this trip the
quality of stick-to-itiveness. The power of persistent
and continuous labor is not natural to a
child. The most industrious boy wants relief
from any sort of work directly. The habit of
continuous labor, so necessary in the world's
work, is an acquisition. It is the requirement
of grim necessity overcoming the weariness of
the flesh. It may have been that I should have
had an occasional day of relief from that monotonous
work. And, I believe, father saw that
the work given me was too severe on a boy unused
to it. With every chance he had, he came
to the rear, ostensibly to help me bring up the



lazy ones, but really to keep me company for
the few minutes he could spare from his place
with the herd. There was not a night in camp
he did not look on me with pride. There was
not a morning that I did not go out with the
bravo of his good cheer, and the tonic of the
men, who declared that I was doing all the
work. I was half made to believe this, because
I could seldom see the men at the sides, and it
appeared to to me that I was driving that great
mass of cattle alone. On rainy days the rubber
suits went on, with storm-cap and leggins complete;
and frequently from the driving rain we
had to stop the march and turn the cattle under
the lee of the hills, or bunch them in the prairie,
and guard them about till the storm was over.
Jonah was thankful for the gourd. In the blast
of the rain I was certainly thankful for the rain-
suit; but I had no release from the job I had
undertaken to drive clear through. This was
characteristic of my father's dealings with me till
I was grown. Afterwards, a few years, there
was in me, for a time, a spirit of resentment
against the severity of what seemed to me then,
all work and no play. Father was surcharged
with business energy. He did not spare himself.
He was not disposed to spare others. His
temper was to put all who had to do with him



on their mettle. He was not a hard man either.
Capable men under him as workmen admired
him. He could not tolerate laziness. He had
no patience with a dolt. He had success in life,
and he merited it. He followed no visionary
schemes. He knew as if by instinct what it
took to get honest results in any direction.
   My school-days were not neglected. I had
really more odd spells to myself than I then
thought; but my time beyond that was not really
my own. The busy press of work on the farm
and with the herds would more than take up
my time through the year. I had not the little
liberties enjoyed by other boys in the neighborhood.
Frequently it was so that the Fourth of
July could not be taken. We were always loaded
up with an immensity of work. But I am very
sure that I was not kept in the press of the work
for mercenary purposes--my work saving so
much in hired help--for my father was at the
farthest remove from the mercenary spirit. He
was a money-maker. He loved the excitements,
the push, and the risks of business; but he did
not love money for its own sake. He was not a
miser. To his family he was lavish to prodigality,
for the times, and often in unexpected directions.
His investments were not always of the
wisest kind; for his domestic impulses mastered



his judgment now and then, and in this respect
there was a marked contrast with his business
ventures. They expressed the fact to which he
never gave expression in any other way, that he
was living for his family. His whole life-work
was a revelation of that fact. He did not see
some of the larger things of the world, such as its
philanthropies for the mass. He was not public-
spirited in the broadest sense. But for his family
he went beyond self as fully as ever Christian
gave himself in complete surrender to Christ's
cause. He did not see much farther than his
family. The limitations of advantage in early
life prevented any broader view. His devotion
to his family was the prompting of his affection.
It held him through the vicissitudes of his life.
It was the fountain of his strength and power.
I can see now that it was his purpose and ambition
not to let me go into the world empty-
handed in property values, and he did not wait
till he died to express that purpose. I can see
now, also, that he was all the time aware that
money possessions alone would result in a curse
instead of a blessing. I can see now that he bestowed
more care in giving me the personal investments
of industry and economy, with the
added faculty of patient plodding, than in the
bestowal of all other things. Since I have gone



beyond the smoke of his chimney to do for myself,
I have always been able to toil away from
the year's beginning to its end, and keep sweet
over it. I make record here of this greatest inheritance
of training from my father. He did
more for me than he knew. His work in building
into my life this thing, accomplished that in
which modern educational methods most seriously
fail.
   My father, after all, was, in the highest modern
sense, an educated man. He had the faculty of
putting himself into a special line of work, and
of holding himself there for a lifetime. He put
his whole thought and energy into it so that he
knew his business, and he taught what he knew
in the laboratory of practical life to those to
whom he was responsible. The world to-day has
no greater need than for this sort of workmanship.
The world has gone daft over societies,
and clubs, and conventions, and general by-laws,
and public position, and sociological problems,
and political parties, and ballots, and eloquent
sermons, and addresses. We tithe mint and
anise, and neglect judgment and the love of God.
Old-fashioned child-training does n'tcount. It
has gone everlastingly out of date. That small-
sized business has been turned over to nurses,
and kindergartens, and Sunday-schools, and day



schools, and later the colleges and universities.
We are personally so busy that we can not afford
to look after that small household item, and we
hire it done. We let it out in job-lots; that is,
we sub-let. The Almighty has an arrangement
with mortals by which he proposes that one man
married to one woman shall take charge of a
number of these little immortals, and be responsible
for them. And the fact that he has
quickly put a limit on the number given to one
man and one woman signifies his judgment that
the two are not ordinarily competent to take care
of and do a first-class job of training one more
,than that number. Those who think that this
work is a limitation of their powers, and that
they had accomplished larger things if hasty
impulse had not enthralled them, laugh in the
face of God's estimate of their abilities.
   But I am not to preach to you in telling you
stories of my childhood. I only wanted to
say here that my father, in my training, made
probably the most that could be made out of the
stuff. This from his side of things. My mother's
work on me was of another quality, and more
fundamental. She had a woman's view of the
higher humanities and the love of God.
   We sold our cattle at highly remunerative
prices to the Norwegian settlers who had recently



taken possession of parts of Wisconsin and
Minnesota, and were still living in sod-houses.
In the latter part of the summer we returned,
satisfied that our eyes had not in all the journey
seen so fine a farm as the one we bought from
the witch-ridden Dorkey.

   The spring following, there was a fine prospect
 of harvest; and as a declaration of war
 against the old cradle and sickle, a newly-invented
 McCormick harvester was purchased. It
 was a rude affair compared with what we have
 to-day. It was as heavy as a sawmill. It
 rattled like a threshing-machine. Less than
 four horses could not move it, and when it went
 at all, they had to go in a trot. The whole
 neighborhood was suspicious of it, not having
 seen anything of the kind before. The common
 sentiment was that it would no more work than
 a machine of perpetual motion. And there were
 some plain declarations of opposition on the
 ground that it would abolish the whisky-jug and
 the harvest jamboree. This, it was agreed, could
 never be done with men who knew their rights,
 and no man would ever get his grain up in that
 country without these two things. If this new-
 fangled affair worked, the harvest would be over
 in a jiffy, and there would be no time for a drunk



and a good time. One glorious June morning
this holy terror was put to work; and the fences
around were lined with the whole male creation
of the township, come to see the fun. Now and
then, as the men would stop to blow the horses,
or oil, or give the binders time to get out of the
way, one of these fence-rail gents, who prided
himself on his level head, would walk up to the
machine, look at it, then walk back a few steps
and spit. He would repeat this performance
unconsciously till the machine would start to its
work. The only effect it seemed to have on him
was to excite his salivary glands.
   A nine-year-old boy, of course, did not see all
of these things at the time; and they are reported
here in perspective--they are the complexes
of truth.
   One event that morning was to me real and
of lasting remembrance. It was my business
to get water to the field for the men. My dog,
Daniel, was a constant companion. This animal
came to our house the fall before, out of a home,
and I adopted him. For years following he was
my fast friend--the best I had in one sense; for
if I abused him in fits of anger, he would lick
my hand the moment I wanted to make up.
Daniel could not talk, but he knew nearly
everything I said. In some things he knew


      



   RODNEY AND DANIEL.




more than I did. This morning he was unfortunate.
He had gone into the uncut wheat and
was after some kind of small game; and not
being used to harvesters, the first information he
had was the sickle whacking at his tail; and before
he could get it out of the way he got it whacked
off twice, or nearly so--the first time clear off,
and the next four inches two-thirds off, so that
the piece hung to one side. I took the piece
that was cut off and carried it around with me
for a while, and tried to fasten it on with mullein-
leaves and inside strips of hickory-bark. Daniel
was inconsolable. I then tried to cut off the
clipped piece; but I lacked courage, and the dog
was unwilling. The tail finally healed and left
the cut piece on; but that part was always at a
positive angle to the other part of the tail.
   This mishap made Daniel the object of constant
remark. I believe he knew how it looked,
and was humiliated by it. For the. next five
years I. seldom met a stranger but what I had to
answer the question:, "What is the matter with
that dog's tail?"
   Over the alarming variety of answers these
strangers received, I came near losing my "reputation
for truth and veracity."
   Daniel was an honest dog, but after the accident
his spirit seemed to be somewhat broken.
                    


His speciality in the hunt was the opossum.
He would take them from under logs and from
old stumps in the day-time, and at night his delight
was to run them up bushes so small, that
I could bend over the bush till he could get at
them. I have climbed persimmon-trees, and
have shaken the lubberly things down to him.
A part of the first experience I had in taking
this kind of game was not very pleasant. The
dog caught it as I shook it from the bush, and,
with a slight shake, to all appearance, it was
dead. I wanted to save the pelt, and took the
dog off, and took it by the tail and started home.
Presently I felt that caudal curiosity tightening
around my wrist. I let go my hold, and tried to
jerk loose. I got scared, and jerked so hard I
fell down, with the "possum" on top. Daniel,
thinking the fight was on again, pitched in, and
with the first nip, the "possum" waked up,
and made his best fight; and I was not able to
get out from under till the fight was over. They
had it out right there over me. I got up, scratched
and scared out of my wits, but otherwise unhurt.
   The fame of my dog in his specialty brought
me quite a number of invitations from other
boys to go with them at night for the training
of their dogs. I went one night with two not



very reputable fellows, each older and a third
larger than myself. We had caught two very
large ones, and were ready to go home. We
were sitting on a half-decayed log, and there
came up some little contention about who
should have the game. In these special training
times I had been getting the catch, the
other boys feeling well paid if their "pups"
could get the hang of the business through the
older dog. These boys proposed to divide the
game with themselves, with the argument to
me that I had a better chance to get more than
they had. And to end the matter, suddenly,
without provocation, one of the boys whirled a
large opossum into the air, and brought it
down over me with such terrific force as to
knock me sprawling into the leaves. With this,
both boys broke into the dark, in a great guffaw
of laughter, each taking an opossum and
making for home. My dog came to me presently,
and we went home. The stroke was such a fearful
one, that the whole structure of my left
lung was jarred and damaged, so that I have
carried a weak lung to this day, and have been
a great sufferer. I kept the event to myself,
and meditated revenge. But a fortnight from
this time that boy took acute pneumonia, and
died in twelve hours. Before he died he



asked to see me. I went to his bedside, and
he said:
   "Rodney, I am going to die. I want you
to have that opossum-pelt. It is out in the
wood-house, stretched on a board."
   Was this his way of repentance? When he
offered me the pelt, did he mean all the rest?
Was this a way Providence had of telling me
that I need not go into the revenge business, or
take the weight of such responsibilities on my
blessed shoulders?
   I had another vivid experience, growing out
of the fame of this dog in his specialty. I was
given a respite of two half-days and a night
between them, and I took Daniel with me on
a visit to a couple of cousins, who lived fifteen
miles away in the river-bottom. One of these
boys was older, and one younger than myself.
We went for a night-hunt in the heavy timber
in the bottom. I was not acquainted with the
region, and hesitated to go far from the road or
the river bank. The two boys declared they
knew the whole ground, and boldly led the way
into the heart of the woods. We went chasing
to and fro, and were having great success; but
it was not long till I did not know my bearings.
Presently the younger boy said, "I do n'tknow
which way home is, no more nor nuthin'."



   The older boy declared his knowledge of
things, and boldly pushed on; but it was not
three minutes from the time he found we were
lost, till we saw that he was trying to find his
way out of the woods. As soon as we found
we were lost, our zest in the hunt was gone.
We were not tired. We were not hungry. We
were not cold. We were lost. We did not
know the way home. That fact changed the
whole aspect of things. The dogs were in pursuit
of other game, but we did not follow them.
The enjoyment of that night-hunt hung on a
thing we did not appreciate till it was gone from
us. Our bearings--that was one thing; the
hunt was another.
   When we are done with this hot chase of a
life, do we know the way home? In the things
we have pursued, have we been successful; and
all the while have the points of life's compass
been clear to us?
   We called the dogs in directly. We had
now more important business on hand. We
traveled for an hour or two, and we were evidently
going in a circle, for we came to a small
tree we had cut, when we thought we were
miles from it. We tried every expedient to find
our direction. We knew the dogs were not lost.
They were better off than we were. We tried



to drive them home, and each cur went in his
own direction. We remembered that in the
evening the wind was in the northwest, so we
built a fire to see the direction of the flames and
smoke. That was a failure. The smoke would
go first in one direction, and then in another.
   We knew that in the bottoms the moss grew
on the north sides of the trees. We went down
on our knees to feel of the roots of the trees.
It was no use. The moss was either all around,
or there was none at all. My dog came up to me
while I was down at the root of a tree, and put
his nose into my face with a questioning look, as
if to say, "Have you treed something?" I felt
humiliated. That dog knew the way home.
As compared with my dog, I had an overplus of
reason, but very clearly an underplus of instinct.
There can be a state for mortals wherein it were
better to be a brute. Than to be what I am, an
immortal spirit, and not know the way home
when the hunt of life is over, I had rather be a
dog, or a stone, or a stick, or a snake, or anything
I can think of.
   The highest pleasure of all human activities
depends largely on fundamental things that seem,
in a sense, to be separate from the human interests
themselves. If these things so necessary to our
enjoyment or success in life go from us, either



by carelessness or neglect, we shall be engaged
in none other than works of folly. The happiness
of this life depends on a knowledge of the
way out of it when we are done with it.
   We had come to a point where we were wan-
dering around aimlessly among the trees, trying
to make an estimate of how hungry we would
be before we should be found and taken out.
   One thing we knew--we wanted to go north
to the river, and to the road on its bank. Which
way was north? We needed another item of
knowledge to complete things. We were in the
condition of the two Irishmen in Texas. They
left their camp early in the morning, and
hunted aimlessly all day with a compass in
pocket, and feeling safe over the fact. When
the sun had gone about down, they laid that
compass on a log, and one said: "This is east;
this is west; and this is north; and this is south;"
and the other one said: "Good enough; and now
where is the camp?"
   We said, "Where is north?" We came to a
slight opening in the tree-tops, and we saw the
sky clear. All these years I had remembered
the few lessons in star-gazing father had taught
me as I sat on his knee outside the door of the
Hazelgreen cabin, in the gloamings of pleasant
evenings. He had pointed out to me the great



and little dipper, so that I could find them any
night when I had command of the sky; but
what could be done in this timber? I had enough
hope that I might see the great dipper, to look
out through a slight opening of the trees. There
it was, standing out as brilliantly as stars ever
shine. I gave a yell, and the dogs broke into
the darkness in quest of game they supposed to
be near. Lewis, the older boy, said:
   "What's the matter now, Rodney! Better
wait till we get out of here before you take
a fit!"
   "We will go out now," I said. "Come here
a minute--you and Ambrose."
   The boys came and stood behind me. One
said:
   "What do you see now-a 'coon, and what
do you want with him?"
   "No; do you see that bright star just in the
edge of the leaves of that hackberry?"
   "Yes."
   "That is the North Star."
   "0 pshaw!" said Lewis. "I do n'tknow
where we are; but I know that is nearer south
than north."
   "Now, you two boys listen to me, or I will
leave you here in the woods. I am going out of



here. Put your heads as close to mine as you can
get them now, and let me show you. Do you see
four large stars out here, nearly in the form of
a square--the upper ones slightly farther apart
than the lower ones?"
   "Yes; what of that?"
   "That is the bowl of the great dipper."
   "Dipper fiddlesticks," said Lewis.
   "Now, do you see three large stars running
out from this bowl, and making a curve away
into the top of that sycamore?"
   "Yes; but yer handle is on the bottom of yer
bowl," said Lewis, in reply.
   "Maybe that is the way they make dippers
up there," retorted Ambrose, beginning to yield
the point, or beginning to catch at a straw, I do
not know which.
   "Now, you see the two outer stars in the
bowl of that dipper are in a line with that great
star yonder, and that is the North Star. Come
this way now about ten feet. Do you see four
smaller stars almost in a square, as you look to
the left of that dead snag, and then three stars
running out from them to the North Star?"
   "No."
   "Look awhile."
   "0 yes, I see it!" said Ambrose.



    "So do I," said Lewis.
    "The stars in the handle of that point toward
 the North Star."
    I had carried my point. Lewis, now, by right
 of the sovereignty of superior age, became the
 leader of the expedition out of the woods.
   What a difficult matter it is to trace a star
 through the tree-tops at night! Lewis cleared
 the way, and Ambrose cut a joint-pole by which
 I was led, so that I had one business--that of
 keeping my eye on the star. We came to a
 bayou. I stood on the bank and watched the
 star, while a boy ran each way to see if there
 was any way around. They returned after a time,
 reporting no way around. We must wade or swim.
 Lewis started in and waded across, the water up
 to his breast. In the middle of the bayou, he
 asked me if I saw the star. Ambrose, with the
 water up to his chin, asked the same question.
 When I was in the water up to my neck, both
 boys on the other bank, simultaneously asked me
 if I saw that star. For two hours we groped our
 way on the other side, and at the last we came to
 the river-road, and were at home in half an hour.
 The folks at the house were getting ready to go
in search. We were tired then. We were wet
and hungry, and we were wiser and less 
presumptuous.



    How great are the things to attract and interest
 the mind in this overshadowed world!
 And it is not out of harmony with the fitness of
 things that we enter into all that they have for
 us; but like the North Star from the woodland,
 we need to keep our eye on the realities that are
 so great that no change is apparent from any
 point of view. The movements of the planets, we
 are told, are double. One is the motion around
 their own axes; the other is in the planes of their
 movements with the other planets around a common
 center. Life has two focals of influence:
 one is the hunt, the other is the compass-point
 for service after the hunt is over. The orbit of
 this life has its attraction and value; but we are
 in the sweep of that larger orbit from time to
 eternity. This is a momentous fact. It is as if
 we had been taken by one hand to be lifted to
 that city which hath foundations, while the other
 has been left free to hammer the iron, or push
 the plane, or drive a nail, or hold the plow, or
 garner the grain, or execute the law, or wield the
 sword, or dig in the mines, or guide a ship, or
 write a poem, or build a palace, or carve a statue,
 or train a child, or save a soul.
         





      
                CHAPTER XII.

   ANIMAL CHARACTERISTICS.

  
     
  "Thus, then, to man the voice of nature spake:
  'Go, from the creatures thy instruction take.
  Learn from the birds what food the thickets yield;
  Learn from the beasts the physic of the field;
  The arts of building from the bee receive;
  Learn from the mole to plow, the worm to weave;
  SLearn of the little nautilus to sail,
  Spread the thin oar, and catch the driving gale.
  Here, too, all forms of social union find,
  And hence let reason, late, instruct mankind.'"
     
                                          --POPE.
  

TO learn and know the characteristics of 
   animals and birds, tame and wild, is an education
in itself. It is a kind of acquisition not 
received from books. It is laboratory-work. The
small attention given now to this sort of 
knowledge, and the little importance attached to it, is
not to the credit of our educational methods.
Mr. Darwin strongly hints that these are our
kinfolks. If this be so, then a knowledge of
    


animal life is necessary to an understanding of
our own. Reason is not a distinguishing feature
of human life. Reason is a thing of degrees,
and the animals have it. Animals learn by experience
as we do. They may not have the sub-
reflective intellectual element, but they grow
wiser as they grow older. They have memory,
sorrow, courage, ferocity, strategy, deceit, reason,
conscience. I put these down, because they are
all well known to every country boy in all the
land. One pound of plain observation is worth
a hundred pounds of psychological theory.
   A school-teacher, boarding at our house, was
one evening explaining to father how it was
that an ox knew that grass was green; and that
a man knew that grass was green; and that a
man knew that he knew that grass was green;
and that an ox did not know that he knew that
grass was green-and that was the difference between
the animal and the human mind.
   Father said:
   "Do you see old Daniel lying there by the fire?'
   "Yes; what of that?"
   "Don't you believe he is feeling good?"
   "Yes; for he is probably neither hungry nor
cold."
   "How do you know that he does n'tknow he
is feeling good?"



   "The point is not there."
   "Then how do you know that he does n't
know that he knows that he is feeling good?"
   "Because the animal mind does not possess
that double reflex of power. It can not turn any
such an introspective somersault."
   "Neither can a wheelbarrow climb a tree.
But that does not settle the issue. I have been
outwitted so often by this animal life about me,
that I do not think very much of my mental
superiority. My distinguishing features must be
in other things. If this lower world of life, as
we call it, had language as the storage and expression
of thought, that might put into it the
principle of progress; and man himself would be
astonished, and put to his wits to keep ahead.
There is a rudimentary language down here now,
that has in it more than man has ever learned of
it. The animals know more of our language
than we know of theirs."
   "I think you are correct there, Mr. 
Blannerhassett," said the pedagogue.
   "Then who is the smartest? Animals know
much of what we say to them. My cattle all
know me. I go into the lot in the morning,
and they follow me to the edge of the lot and
ask me for a wisp of hay. They say plainly as
any thing: 'Give me a wisp of hay.'"



   Snifkins, the itinerant shoe-cobbler, was there
that night, patching our poor soles. He seemed
to wake up all at once, with a sly twinkle in
his left eye, and break into the argument with
a regular landslide:
   "There is nothing at all remarkable about
that, Rube Blannerhassett. I went down into a
lot the other day, where there was a bunch of
cattle, and I had n't the least acquaintance with
any of them. There was an old bull down there,
who not only followed me to the edge of the
lot, but he lifted the gate off its hinges, and
raced with me clear down to the house in the
most familiar manner possible. He might have
asked me for a wisp of hay if I had stopped
long enough; but I did not want to keep the
folks waiting for dinner--and--I--just hung
one-half of my coat-tail and a part of my pants
on the bull's horns, and went in the house."
   The cobbler then subsided into silence for
the rest of the evening. Father rallied from
this sally in a few minutes, and proceeded with
his argument to down the school teacher.
   "I saw a two-year-old steer once that 
understood German. I was taking a bunch of
fifty head from one of the lower counties home,
and stopped over night with a Dutchman. During
the night his cattle broke their inclosure,



and were mixed with mine in the morning. I
separated them, as I thought, and started on;
and after nightfall that day, the Dutchman
overtook me, and said I had one of his steers.
His Dutch was up. I gave him assurance that
a thing of that kind would be made right; so
next morning he pointed out his steer. I told
him where I purchased that animal, and what
I paid for him.
   "He says: 'I call dat stere to me, and de
oders vill never mind vat I sed.' I consented to
that test, of course. He began the strangest sort
of cattle-calling I ever heard, and that steer put
up his head, and came running to lick the 
Dutchman's hand for salt. I surrendered on the spot,
traded with him, paid him the difference, and
more, because he had me; paid him for his
time, and his bill over night. The steer I left
was a dead match for the one I took.
   "There is a difference between the flap of a
pigeon's wing after an acorn, and the flap of that
wing in fright. The last will set every wing in
the flock in motion. Wild geese in their migrations
through the sky are organized; and when
they feed, they make one of their number a 
sentinel on guard; and when they are through, he
feeds while they watch. One honk from the
sentinel puts every head up, and another puts



them on the wing. We are all familiar with the
peculiar sign of the mother quail, that sends
every little broodling into the nearest tuft of
grass, and you may put on your specks, and you
will never find a one; but you can see the
mother bird playing broken leg and wing so perfectly,
that you half suspect it is so, even when
you know better. A colony of bees knows more
about geometry than most people. An ant-hill
in the barnyard illustrates the principle of self-
government in a better way than any known
form of human society."
   "You may be right," said the pedagogue;
"but what do you call that?"
   "I have no name for it. The thing itself is
greater than the name. It is part of the mystery
of life. It is a school in which we shall not
graduate soon. There is more in it than in half
your colleges. Turn a boy out among these
things, and he will learn them faster than in any
school."
   "Are you opposed to the schools, then?"
   "No. The schools are good and necessary,
unless they undertake to monopolize the business
of imparting knowledge. Shall nothing
count in a child's life except the things he gets
from a printed book?"
   "I do as you did to the Dutchman; I 
                      


surrender," said the teacher; and the conversation
closed.

   Animals soon learn that a moving object
catches the eye quickly, and they make use of
it for their own protection. A rabbit will lie in
the thick grass till he is kicked out. One morning
I was waked before day to go to the hill-
pasture to look after the grazers. I had gone
through the bottom, crossed the creek, climbed
the bluff on the other side, which was so steep
that I had to pull myself up by the bushes that
grew up out of beds of matted ferns; and when
I reached the summit I stopped a moment for
breath. A vision of beauty was before me.
Over the knolls of the high grass-land lay a
hundred fat cattle, their glossy sides yet wet
with the night-dew they had not yet risen to
shake off. Behind me were great stretches. of
timber; and this elevation was above the tallest
monarchs. For miles up the valley could be
seen patches of the silver stream that flowed
almost immediately below me. The gray streaks
had gone from the east, and the borders of the
sky were lit up with crimson and orange and
gold, the last prophecy of the morning. But the
finest lines to all this beauty were just before
me. Not more than twelve feet away, on the



body of a small blue-ash tree, lay as pretty a
little gray squirrel as my eyes ever saw. Not a
muscle moved; but I was so near that my eye
caught the breathing. I tried to trace the outlines
of that squirrel on the tree. On one side I
could, but on the other side, from whence came
the shadows of the forest, the squirrel and the
bark of the tree faded perfectly into each other.
The frightened little animal was as still as death
till I went near enough to lay my hand on it;
then it dashed up the tree with a great clatter.
I went home that morning with a song in my
soul. All the reality of that scene is with me
to-day. It is my own, to remain mine forever.
   It is conceded that the fox-squirrel is the
smartest little animal of the forest. He is as
foxy as a fox, and, besides, he is brainy. In
Harper's famous picture, "All Sorts in our Class,"
the artist does well to put the fox-squirrel up
head. There is where he belongs in the animal
world. With a single hunter he stands more
than even chances for escape. He knows the
difference between a live hunter and his coat
and hat; and he can be depended on to keep on
the safe side of a limb. I found a fox-squirrel
one afternoon cutting hickory-nuts in a tree
about fifty feet from his den. I got a shot, but
so close was he to the limb, that I judge I only



scorched the hair of his neck or shoulder. I was
taking my time for re-loading, as I knew he
could not get from that tree to the others by the
limbs, and the dog would get him at the roots
if he went down; but in a moment he came part
way down the body, and ran out the longest limb
toward me, and from its extremest tip he made
a spring, aiming to strike me directly in the face.
I dodged him, but he went past my head with a
brush, and before I could rally from my astonishment,
and collect my wits, he was away, and
up the den-tree and safe. He escaped in the
only possible way. It was a daring and dangerous
leap--a game of bluff, if you please--but it
worked. It was a >plan, finely wrought out in
only a moment of time, under the most intelligent
apprehension of the circumstances, and
with no little knowledge of human nature; and
it was executed with remarkable precision, and
tact, and courage, and strategy.

   A boy out with a gun is an untamed vandal.
He shoots to hear himself shoot, and kills things
he ought to let live. For. a number of years
two bald-eagles had nested in a very large but
half-dead oak-tree that stood on the knoll of an
open cattle-pound by the side of the reservoir.
At the time of this incident the young ones had



been hatched and fed till they had grown too
large for the nest, and they had pitched off into the
underbranches of the neighboring timber. This
I did not know till one afternoon I entered the
woods, coming up from the lower bend of the
lake; and I saw one of the lubberly things sitting
on a limb quite a distance away; and with
no other object except to kill something, I made
a careless shot and broke its wing. It came. to
the ground, and when I approached it, it went
floundering away under the trees, snapping at
me, and making great cries for help. Help came.
There was a swoop of heavy wings, and great
talons piercing my hat, cutting my head, and
leaving me bareheaded. When I saw the mother
bird she had risen fifty feet among the trees, and
was turning to renew the attack. I struck at
her with the gun as she returned, missed my
stroke, and fell sprawling into the leaves. She
was emboldened by my discomforture, and by
what certainly appeared to her a speedy victory.
She flapped herself into the tops of the trees for
an attack fiercer than ever. I could do nothing
with the gun. The battle was on, and there was
no time for any sort of preparation, even to the
picking up of a club. There was nothing to do
but to stand up and fight, naked-handed. I was
not in danger of my life, but of being fearfully



wounded. From the dip she made in the air I
could see that she intended to strike me squarely
in a battle of life and death. I braced myself
and she dashed into my hands, with beak and
talons buried in my wrists. The blow knocked
me over; and as I threw her from me, it seemed
that my wrists were cut off, and both my hands
went with her. She was over me again in a
moment. I was on my back, with my boots in
the air, doing some tall kicking. She made
several charges on my boots, and I did some
dexterous turning to keep the impromptu fortification
next to the enemy. So the battle went
on--only for a few moments, I suppose; but it
seemed an hour. The wounded eaglet had gone
into hiding and become quiet; and with the fury
of the mother bird assuaged by this, she flew
out through the tree-tops and was gone. I was
willing to call it a drawn battle. I had been
ready to quit from the start. I was suffering
with my wounded hands and wrists, but I was
thankful I was not dead. I went home with
nothing for the day's hunt but what I got in
education. I think I needed that particular
scourging. Afterwards I could have killed her;
but in admiration of her courage and splendid
fighting qualities, I let her go.




   BREASTWORKS NEXT TO THE ENEMY.



   


   The next summer these two eagles nested in
 the same tree. My respect for the female since
 she gave me such a fight, was so great that I
 took profound interest in them; and as I spent
 the summer largely in the fields in sight, I had
 an opportunity to watch their movements from
 the early spring days to late August, when the
 young and old ones were not easily distinguished.
 First, there was the rude packing of dry sticks
 and willow branches and thorn-brambles into
 the decayed fork of the oak-tree; then the love-
 making, the nesting, and the great flight of
 the birds. It was a common thing to see them
 about eight o'clock in the morning start into
 the sky, and quickly fly out of sight, and then,
 swift as a bullet, they would drop down again,
 and sweep away to the dead trees standing
 in the water on the farther side of the lake.
 What a fierce, wild spirit they had! The eagle
 takes first place among birds. It was a fitting
 thing that the conquering Roman legions were
 led to victory by the eagle emblem in pure gold.
 The eagle is the adopted American bird, and is
 finely expressive of the American character.
 What boldness, what daring and swiftness of
 flight and endurance, and, withal, what a high
spirit!


   The fable has it that an eagle one morning
made a visit to an owl in the underbranches of
the forest.
   "Good morning," said the eagle. "I have
come to make you a friendly call, and to ask you
if you would not like to take a fly with me into
the morning air to-day?"
   "I am glad you have come to see me," said
the owl; "but I do not greatly enjoy the mornings;
I prefer the splendid melancholy and
silence of these shadows."
   "But, my friend, the sunshine is so much
better than the darkness. The day is better
than the night. The day was certainly not
made for this hiding, and the night was not
made for activity, but for rest. It appears to
me your tribe is coming, more and more, under
the thrall of darkness. If your ancestors had
fought against this drooping love of sitting on a
limb in the shade, your species had not been so
owlish to-day. For your race there is yet time
to retrieve. Spurn the darkness. Kiss the sunlight.
Leave this dismal swamp. Take a whirl
or two each morning into the upper air."
   "You are certainly a vivacious bird," said the
owl, sagely. "I know you belong to a species
greater than mine, and I do not care for a controversy
with you. I have heard your screams



overhead, and have spent no little time in 
comparison of my contemplative and philosophic
spirit with yours; and I have not been able
wholly to commend either my own course or
yours. I only know that, through heredity and
the manner of my own life, I have a special
adaptation and liking to these shadows."
   "I am aware that you are in my power," said
the eagle; "but at present I am neither hungry
nor belligerent. My contention is that, as birds
of prey, your species would be greatly helped
and advantaged by getting out of the swamps.
Come, take a fly with me into the heavens."
   "I am honored with your visit, and I accept
your courtesies," said the owl. With that they
pitched through the tree-tops into the air, one
screaming, the other blinking his eyes.
   "This is too bright for me," said the owl.
   "Come on," said the eagle. "It is better
farther up. This first glimpse you have is like
the blinding of the snow. You will see glorious
beauties directly."
   "My wings are getting weary, and I must 
return to the shade," said the owl.
   "Come up higher, and you will reach the
fountains of the pure air," said the eagle.
   "I am blinded in this light, and I bid you
good-day," said the owl, as he turned in search



of the shadows; and the eagle went on to meet
the sun.
    When circumstances are greater than the
 creature, there is degradation. It is so with
 the human spirit. To surrender to them is to
 perish. To conquer and make use of them is to
 live forever.

   The most interesting period in the nesting of
 these two eagles was after the eggs had been
 hatched, and the old birds had begun to feed
 their young. Then were they fiercest in fight,
 as I had already learned. Then were they most
 skillful in taking the finest fish of the lake.
 Then was there a daily clatter of young and old
 over the nest. The young ones soon became
 too large for the nest. From down and pin-
 feather they had come to full plumage. One
 day a crisis came. It occurred in eagle language
 and life, and I translate it here.
   A fine fish had been brought from the waters,
torn to tidbits, and put into the mouths of the
young ones, and the mother bird then said to
them:
   "My children, have we not taken good care
of you to this day?"
   "Yes, yes," said both the young ones.
   "Have you not had the best fish of this lake,



with young rabbit, and quail, and grouse, and
pheasant for your food; and have we not sheltered
you in the storm, and stood vigil over you
at night?"
   "All that, all that!" said the sleepy squabs.
   "Well, do you know you are getting too large
for this nest? Besides it is not for an eagle to
lie in a nest and be fed. You are about grown
now, and grown eagles know how to fly. See
here now, come with me;" and with this she
bounded into the air, and filled it with such 
vigorous calls that quite an amount of spirit was
shown by the eaglets. They stood up in the
nest, shook their great wings, and made crying
complaint; then they tumbled back into the nest
to keep out of danger, and let well enough alone,
as they had wanted for no good thing till that
hour. Then the mother bird became enraged.
She snapped her beak over them till they cowered
into the sticks. She tore the nest from under
them, and left them clutching to the bare tree.
She pushed one off, and it went floundering
toward the ground. She was under it in a 
moment, and carried it a thousand feet into the
sky, then let it go. What a tumbler! Half
way to the ground it got its balance, and made
an angle for the ground a half mile away, and
lay panting, with wings outstretched, on the



meadow; but for the first time in its life it felt
the thrill of the eagle spirit. During this time
the male bird caught the other eaglet, and flew
with it into the sky, and let it go. With this
struggle in the air, the eagle spirit was awakened,
and to fly became with them a consuming
passion.
   I would rather be an eagle than an owl.
To choose a high course, and pursue it, is
to master all circumstances. The comtemplation
of high thoughts and purposes is exalting,
and it is a sign of victory. To be fed and cared
for, and to grow fat, is to remain a squab. We
never accomplish what we never undertake.
There is no success without effort. Strength
and confidence come of effort. We know our
faculties and powers by experiment. To reach
the great end of life, we must get beyond the
idea of physical protection. The young eaglets
really were as safe in the air as in the nest.
The brooding wings were to see that they did
not fall; but they were of much greater value in
teaching them to fly. It were better for the
young eagles to be dashed to death on the ground
than to remain in the nest. To make no trial of
powers, is to court the extinction of the species.
Eagles do not tolerate a broodling if it makes no
heroic effort to fly. We see in this the meaning



of effort and struggle. The world expects young
people to undertake something. In honor, it
does not care what. Eagles do not care which
way the young ones fly; but they will slay them
if they do not try to fly; and in great reason, for
in that case they had better be dead than alive.
   Linger around the home-nest till the powers
are plumed, and then dare and do. Choose an 
individual struggle with the world. To be a 
dependent, is to become a weakling, sooner or
later. Have you the stuff in you to plan your
own life? Then cast everything in the issue to
achieve or die, and you will not die. You shall
have life, and a place here and for evermore.

   Naturally we expect wild animals of every
species to save themselves by flight when 
pursued. This is the rule, except with the skunk.
He comes toward you at sight. He is a very
confiding and friendly little animal. If you are
anywhere about his den, he would rather be near
you than not. He will meet you half way any
time. He will walk between your legs, and put
his fore paws against your boots like a pet cat.
You would think he had known you always, and
yet you do not feel like offending him. You
look for him to see his mistake directly, and run
away and mind his own business; but he still



confides in you. You do not feel like letting
him know that he is officious. You hesitate to
kick him, or hit him with a stick, or even kill
him on the spot. You keep quiet, and wish he
would excuse himself. You call him all the
pretty names you can think of, and slowly walk
away, all the while feeling peacefully uncomfortable
for fear he will be mean and troublesome.
And if you make your escape, you do so with an
exhilarated feeling, as if you had gone into some
high region, where the air was full of ozone.
This has an application to life.

   One autumn day I went into the hickory-
groves north of the reservoir to lay in my winter
supply of nuts. As I was tying my horse in the
edge of the grove I heard the crack of a rifle,
and I looked up to see two men turn a beef on
its side from where the gun had dropped it,
and with a knife they bled it there on the
ground. This was a familiar sight to me, and,
without further attention to it, I turned into the
woods near by, and began to fill my sack with
nuts. The ground here was literally covered,
and it became a question as to how great a
weight I could fill and put across the saddle.
For three or four hours I worked away, and
hardly looked up. The butchers had loaded



their beef and gone; but they had done a thing
not allowed by the owners of cattle on the
prairie. They had killed this animal where the
herds could get to the blood and scent it. It was
understood that a thing of this kind should not
be done, because it brought about quite a number
of unfortunate and unprofitable conditions.
Cattle turned upon the open prairie are not 
disposed to range everywhere. With care they can
be made to keep a limit of territory, say of two
or three miles around, and this without herding.
The leading cattle-raisers of the country had an
understanding about the ranges of their herds;
and, with a sort of squatter's claim on his 
geography, each stockman would take his herd,
great and small, in the spring, and let them get
their habits to certain waters and certain salting
places, and their disposition was then to keep in
the same bounds the whole summer. The stock
did better in this way, and were much easier to
find in the fall. There was one dreaded thing
that would break the value of this nature's law.
The scent of fresh blood of their kind would
mix all the herds, and throw everything into
confusion. It would produce great restlessness
for days, and it brought on mortal combats 
among the bulls. A stray heifer directly
came grazing up from the water's edge, and 



presently she scented this blood. She began 
bellowing in a fearful way. In five minutes there were
a dozen animals on the spot; in ten minutes
there were a hundred--all bellowing and sniffing
the air and horning the ground. The noise now
went out over the prairie, and the herds began to
rush in from all directions. In a half hour there
were a thousand head of cattle there.
   What awful language of sorrow this scented
knowledge of the death of one of their kind will
bring from a drove of cattle! What lonesome
and unpleasant feelings it produces ! To those
who never heard this sound, it can not be 
described. Distant thunder is sublime, but it is
never so awful as this. Thunder is the 
expression of inanimate power--this is the voice of life
in its own death-wail. When a large number of
cattle get under the spell of the blood-bellow,
they are for the time simply unmanageable; and
the oldest herdsmen will mount their horses and
ride out of hearing till it assuages itself. This
day I could no longer endure the sound; so I tied
my sack, and threw it over the saddle, to ride
away. As I mounted I saw old Emperor, the
leader of our own herds, coming across the prairie,
with large numbers of our own brand following
him. He was a great red-roan giant, near two
thousand pounds in weight; and his strides



shook the ground'about him as he came. I tried
to head him off. He paid no attention to me,
and I had to get out of his way. He horned his
way through the packed mass three hundred feet
deep, throwing them to each side as if they
were so many small fry, till he stood with his
nose at the spot--and such a defiant and awful
roar! It rose above the bellow of the cows and
younger cattle as the hollow echo of a storm in
the mountain gorges rises above the shrill whistle
that only brings the snow and sleet. The cattle
kept coming. The canal, two hundred paces to
the north, was here a boundary for the prairies
above us, but the cattle from them were, by the
score, now swimming the water and mounting
the tow-path, only to plunge their dripping sides
into the long grass and make for the scene. To
my consternation, I saw the great bull of the
north herds, King Lear, push his head up over
the bank, then come into full view, and leading
a hundred others, rush pellmell for the place.
The thing sent a chill through me. King Lear
belonged to a herdsman in the Birch Valley, who
was careful not to let him cross the water; but
this bellowing for the first time brought him
over. He was fully as large as Emperor--a
dark brindle, with stripes around the sides like a
tiger, and with long, shaggy hair over his eyes,
                      


and half hiding thick, stocky horns that had
stood the test of a hundred battles. I knew
what was coming. These strange bulls, meeting
here, would fight to the death. I threw my nut-
sack into the top of a bush and urged the horse
through the crowded mass, if possible, to keep
them from meeting. King Lear had the start
of me, and in no time the two animals were
sniffing the air opposite each other over the spot
where the beef had been killed. No sign of
grass was now to be seen. The prairie-sod had
already been pawed and horned away, and the
earth had been thrown out more than a foot deep.
The two bulls caught sight of each other. From
each there was a roar of defiance, a lashing of
tails, and a straight charge. The clash shook
the ground; and each animal recoiled from it
with a snort of blinding pain. Emperor threw
his head into the air, and the blood shot from his
nose. It looked as if he had met defeat at the
first onset. I remember I cried. I could not
stand and see him killed; and with the fool-
hardiness of a boy I rushed in to separate them.
I might as well have been in Guinea for all the
good I did. I rode between them. They were
about to charge under the horse, and I had to
get out of the way. The battle stopped the 
bellowing, and .the mass moved backward, and I


      



   EMPEROR AND KING LEAR.




rode round and round the maddened bulls, trying
to get Emperor's attention and drive him away.
The truce from the first charge lasted but a few
seconds. They moved sideways, came together,
and locked horns for a trial of strength. What
fearful, wild animalism! Nothing more terrific
in Spanish delights or Roman amphitheater was
ever seen. Emperor's sharp horn went into the
temple of the brindle bull, and with the faintest
flinch he rushed upon him and rolled him on the
ground; and, missing his second stroke, he threw
himself to his knees. Both bulls came to their
feet with horns locked; and both were furiously
maddened by their roll in the sod. In the
clash, now, Emperor's left horn was suddenly
snapped short off. This broke the lock, and both
went to their knees. I cried again. Must I see
the king of our herds killed before my eyes?
But Emperor's courage was not gone, nor his
strength. He was first to his feet, and he dashed
into his foe before he could straighten himself
for the charge, and rolled him clear over in the
sod, and, with a ferocious plunge, he sent his
sound horn full into King Lear's side. With
that I shouted in savage triumph. Since the
world was, it has made a difference whose ox is
gored. King Lear did not get up. He bawled.
Emperor shook his bloody head as if disdaining



to strike again a fallen foe, and slowly walked
away. King Lear bled to death in half an hour.
I made haste for home, and before night we had
Emperor's broken horn tarred and bandaged.
This battle became the news of the country.

   I have in mind, also, a case of conscience and
character. A part of my work for a few years
was to drive and manage a four-horse team. The
two leaders were match-horses. They were fine
and likely and spirited. They made a better
show than anything on the farm--so we drove
them on Sunday. They were fine steppers with
red tassels in their brow-bands. They would
dance in the harness, and pull, if everything was
all right with the driver and the harness, and
the grade was moderate, and the load reasonable;
but they were easily rattled, and when rattled
they would not pull a pound.
   On the near side at the wheel was a great
black horse of fine proportion, and generally
true; but there was a limit to his reliability.
On the off side at the wheel was an old bald-
faced sorrel horse we called Tom. Tom was not
a beauty. He would not go on the market at
all. Tom had a swayed back, an ungainly jaw,
and a Roman nose. He had a large-jointed, flat
leg, and the ugliest kind of feet, that looked as



   if they had just melted and run out over the
   ground. He was pathetically ugly. But the
   stay-chain was always, on old   Tom's side.
   There was no need of any stay-chain on the
   other side, for his end of the double-tree never
   went back. Tom was an honest horse. He
   was always ready, always willing, always even-
   tempered, and would pull at a heavy load up-
   hill whether the other horses pulled or not. If
   old Tom ever had a wicked delight, it was to
   pull a balky horse down under the wheel.
   Father used to say to me: "Now, Rodney, if
   you get in the mud, and you are about to stick,
   keep the leaders out of the way, and put the
   bud to old Tom."   Time and again, when the
   leaders would flinch, I have mounted Tom's back
   to give him a little more weight; and I have put
   my boot-heels into his sides, and felt the stay-
   chain tighten as he would catch a long breath for
   a pull; then the traces would twang, Tom's
   muscles would turn into iron, and the load would
   move. Because of his sterling worth, Old Tom
   was a family favorite. He was not for sale at
   any price. We kept him till he died, and we all
   went to the funeral, and gave him an honorable
   burial deep under the sod, where the crows could
   not get at him. If ever horses get to heaven,
   old Tom is there; and he is willing to pull at



any heavenly load. If holiness there be on the
bells of the horses, old Tom will be girded with
bells from fetlock to mane.
   There are people like my leaders. They are
more showy than trusty. They are beautiful,
but not reliable. They are good for a parade
and to cut a dash. They are coach-and-four
people. For a steady pull and a heavy load
they are not worth anything. Usually about the
time old Tom got the load out of the tug of it,
the leaders in my team would link in, and, for a
rod or two, nearly pull the tongue out of the
wagon. Old Tom would take a long breath or
so, and go quietly along about his business, as if
nothing unusual had happened. The leaders,
after taking hold at the wrong time, would quiver,
and snort, and pant, and dance for an hour. A
stranger coming along the road would give
credit to the wrong horses for pulling the load
out of the mud.
   The bulk of the work of this world is done by
solid pulling. And for this sort of work there
is not much credit given at any time. In the
steady going necessary to achieve it, there is not
much chance for show. And the people who do
this kind of work are seldom recognized as 
leaders in society. A few fine-conditioned people are
always belaboring these slow pullers for their



slowness. The fine folks are more generally
reformers and philanthropic in spirit. They
have fallen in love with humanity (in the 
abstract), and they take an advanced stand. So
did the leaders in my team; but they did not do
much pulling. Do you know it is one of the
easiest matters to take an advanced stand on great
questions affecting a community? There is more
reputation and glory to the square inch of merit
in it than in any other position one can occupy.
So there are people who make a dash in the
closing hours of a great and patient work, and
carry the laurels from the steady toilers, with
those who do not know them. Usefulness and
honesty are the broadest terms expressive of
character. They are the sum of the most 
admirable qualities. When an honest man speaks,
God listens. When an honest man comes to
die, God says: "Get ye ready, my ministers; an
honest man is dying. Gather the hosts, and go
down to the gate. Open wide the portals, and
when he comes, shout ye, shout ye, and bring
him to this coronal of universal praise!"        
  
  
  

      


               CHAPTER XIII.

   FISHING SCRAPES.

  
     
  "Just in the dubious point where with the pool
  Is mixed the trembling stream, or where it boils
  Around the stone, or from the hollowed bank,
  Reverted, plays in undulating flow,
  There throw, nice judging, the delusive fly;
  And, as as you lead it round in artful curve,
  With eye attentive mark the springing game."
     
                                    --THOMSON.
  

WITH a friend, last spring, I went fishing. I
       had a twenty-five-dollar fishing-rod. I
had the finest and most tempting bait. It was
the right month in the year, and the right time
in the month. It was the right sort of a day--
a fresh, balmy atmosphere, and with the air so
still that there was not a ripple on the surface
of the waters. I also looked at the emboweled
man in the almanac, and saw that the signs
were right. I fished all day, and never got a
nibble. I doubt if there was a fish in a mile of
    


the bait. Seines, and traps, and dynamite--these
have played havoc with the fish. If Isaac 
Walton were living now, he would die of a broken
heart.
   Some visitor at Niagara wrote that you could
get the use of a pole and a line there an hour
for a dollar. You could get some bait for a 
dollar. You could also get a man to show you the
best place to fish for a dollar. But there was no
use, he said, in paying that last dollar; one place
was as good as another--they did not bite 
anywhere. It makes no difference now where you
fish. These are degenerate days.
   The things that I tell you here are rather
fishy; but I am to record the facts. Our house
was a half mile from the Wabash and Erie
Canal, the great enterprise before mentioned,
extending from Evansville, northward and 
eastward, three hundred and seventy-four miles to the
Ohio line. It was begun in 1832, and completed
in 1853, at a cost of construction of over six 
millions. It never paid the hundreth part of one per
cent on the investment. It went to decay, and to
the fishes, soon after it was first put into running
order. Its waters were alive with every variety of
fish known to the rivers and lakes of the region.
And in turn it became a great hatching-pool to
stock the creeks, and more especially the reservoir,



which was its feeder at this point. Water-
moss grew along the edges of the bed three or
four feet out, and there was an equal space of
clear water in the center. I have seen this open
space black with fish for hundreds of yards in
length.
   One afternoon, when I had finished the first
plowing of the corn in the bottom field, about
three o'clock, I took an old rusty hook, and tied
to it a string four feet long, pinched a bullet
over it above the hook, tied the string to an 
ungainly pole, and, with angle-worms for bait, I
caught in two hours a string of fish greater than
I could lift into the wagon. The beauty of this
fishing was in the fact that I could see the fish,
and I disdain ed to put down the bait, except as
the larger ones would be near to take it. I
caught more than ten pounds of fish with one
worm.

   My first fishing alone, however, was for 
catfish. These are not a game fish, and you can
put on your muscle and throw them into the
trees behind you, if the size of the fish befits the
feat. A catfish can make the greatest resistance
to being pulled out of the water of any known.
It is better to fish for him with a cork. He takes
hold of the bait in such a bull-dog and definite



sort of way, that you can take your time to 
surprise him with the fact that he is snared. You
can fish for catfish, and if they do not bite freely,
you can take a nap between bites.
   My place this afternoon, I tell you about, was
at the first fork of a great tree that had been
chopped into the lake, and whose top reached
out into the deep water of the slough. It was a
day for yellow-cat. I had taken quite a number
of small ones and had re-baited, and had lain
down on the log for a nap, really wishing to be
let alone, and purposing to let the next meddler
take the bait or snare himself. I had just gotten
myself into position, when there was a great
surge at the pole under me, and with my effort
to get hold of it, before I could gain my 
purchase, another surge pulled me into the water.
I lost my hold; but as soon as I found I could
touch bottom, I made for the pole again. The
strength of that fish, making for the channel,
brought consternation to me. Time and again
in my efforts to pull him ashore, I nearly lost
my wits in the immensity of his plunges. In
spite of myself, before he became worn out, he
had taken me fifty feet out into the lake, where
the depth of the water gave me little or no 
purchase. For a long time that day it was a 
question whether a boy would get a fish, or a fish



would get a boy. I got the fish after more
floundering in the water than I had bargained
for. He was a twelve-pounder.

    One of the favorite methods of fishing in these
 days was with a spear or trident. The three
 barbed prongs had a handle ten feet long, and to
 this a cord was attached to return the instrument
 after striking the fish, or in case of a miss.
 The largest fish in these waters was the pond-
 fish. He could only be taken with the spear. He
 would sink himself in the mud and let a seine go
 over him, or he would break through the meshes
 like a dart. This fish is fond of playing and 
 feeding in the shallow, muddy water, flushed by the
 spring rains. He could only be found in the
 flooded grass, or in the elbow-brush, where a
 freshet had thrown the lake beyond its 
 boundaries. Your stroke with the trident must be 
 directed by the waves he produces on the surface
 as he moves, and he must be held firmly to the
 ground till he is over the struggle. I have taken
 out these fish nearly equal in weight to my own
 body.

   The buffalo was altogether the finest 
general purpose fish of these waters. He is a good
feeder, a good fighter, and a good grower. In



May and June great schools of these fish came
up out of the deep water to have a romp in the
shallows. Frequently, from  these herds, 
hundreds of pounds can be taken before they take
fright. When they become aware of the presence
of an enemy, the fun is over in a minute. 
Finding himself pursued, the buffalo makes a sound
of fright that can be plainly heard, but can not
be expressed in letters. It is more nearly like
the muffled working to and fro of the bottom of a
tin pan than anything else. Make as great an
effort as possible to sound the letter B with your
mouth shut, and you approach it. The leaders
first sound this alarm. Then hundreds take it
up with an answer somewhat different. The
noise must be the sudden explosion of the air-
sack into the water. With your head under the
water, this noise is like distant thunder. When
you are fishing for buffalo and hear this sound,
put up your tackle and go home.

   The black bass was our game fish. For
the true fisherman they gave the finest sport.
They were too quick for the spear. To take
them with a hook was a fine art, which but
few possessed. They were a prey to the nets
and seines; but this is business. There was
neither sport nor skill about it. You bait your



hook for a black bass; but you catch him, not
with that, but with "guile." You must know
him  and his haunts.   You must know what
sort of a fish he is, and when he gets hungry, or
you may fish in the waters full of him, and never
tempt him to your snare. In all our country
there were only two skillful fishermen for black
bass. There was a tradition that they did not
bite for boys at all. In this particular, I know,
my blood was up. I quit fishing for all other
kinds. The two men who knew best how to
take them never took company. But, after much
persuasion, I was one day permitted to become a
silent partner with the crack fisherman of the
region. Of course there was much of his work
that could not be imparted by words, or even by
seeing him do it. Experience is the only school-
master. Two things I did learn: one was,
do not try to land your game straightway; the
other was, keep still. Successful fishermen go
alone. A noisy  crowd never caught game
fish; they catch minnows and turtles. Absolute
silence is an essential with the black bass. The
knock of the oar on the boat, the jar of your heel
on the bottom, a cough or a sneeze, will send
them out of reach in two seconds, no more to
return for that day. They go at the least noise,
and they go to stay.


   
   The third day from my solemn day's 
watching the crack fisherman, I took my outfit and
little boat at the first sign of morning, and
rowed down the arm of the lake, and then a
mile west to the mouth of Splunge Creek.
The orb of the sun was half way up over the
tops of the bottom trees on the other side of
the lake, and was beginning to build a bridge
of orange and gold across the stretch of water
to the western shore, and the ducks and geese
which had taken to the center of the lake for
the night were beginning to move towards the
shore for feeding, when I tied my boat to an old
snag about fifty yards from the edge. The
water here was in a slight current, and about
three feet deep. I had taken every precaution.
I had crept to that place, using one oar, and with
all the stealth of an Indian. I had on three
articles of apparel--a hat, a shirt, and a pair of
pants. I had a long, slender willowy pole, and
a line of tested strength. It was made of home-
spun flax-thread. I had forty-three splendid
silver-sides in the minnow-bucket. The silence
was oppressive. I could hear my heart beat,
and it came near jumping out of my throat, as I
was holding my breath baiting the hook with
the first minnow, when a mallard-duck, with
a great clatter and quack-quack, flew out of the



covert of grass near by, and went scudding away
across the smooth water. The thing so startled
me that, with a nervous twitch, I dropped the
minnow overboard. A great whirl in the water
a moment after showed the game present. I
baited again, quicker than I can write it, and threw
the hook out. It had not gone two feet under
the water until it was taken. Swish--sciz-z-z!
went the line, out to full tension, then back, and
around the boat; and five minutes were gone
before that monstrous bass was taken in. There
was no waiting for the game that morning. The
water was alive with it. The fish in the water
seemed to regard the snared ones as making
sport for them. They would play about the
victims till they were taken into the boat. A
thirteen-year-old boy at one end of the pole and
a six-pound bass at the other--what majestic
sport! Did your nerves ever feel the thrill of
this sort of excitement? There is no human
sensation like it. There is more nervous 
exhilaration in it than in a shock of electricity. A
fine fish, worth the taking, is able to send up
the line and over the pole into your arms and
nerves a dance of indescribable delight. This
morning the fish quit biting at nine o'clock. I
was weary with my splendid catch; but I had a
hundred pounds of as fine fish as were ever taken




   A HUNDRED POUNDS OF BLACK BASS.



      


from any place. This exploit made me king fisherman
that summer. I had suddenly become 
famous. I enjoyed the notoriety, because my boyish
mind was filled then with that sort of thing. Of
ambition, I had never thought. Of philanthropy,
I had never learned that there was such a thing.
Whether I was a sinner or not, I did not know,
and did not care. I had never yet thought of
giving a moral account of myself. No human
demand of that kind had ever been made on me.
I do not believe the good God had made any, for
his reckoning with me came later on. I only
knew that I loved fishing better than bread.
The sport was a delight to me for its own sake.
Call it what you will. Name it the remains of
savagery, to which heredity clings--no difference.
It is fun to fish when they bite.
   
   The lake containing these fish was artificial.
The embankment that held it was a mile and a
quarter in length, and of immense proportions.
Five hundred Irishmen worked at it for more
than a year. One contractor had the north end,
and another the south end. During the time of
the building of this dam, a strife arose between
the contractors. The man on the south was paying
seventy-five cents a day for able-bodied men.
The man on the north was short of hands, and
                     


offered eighty cents, and soon got nearly all the
men. The man on the south nursed his wrath
two weeks, and offered eighty cents and a jigger
of whisky. The north works were vacated. As
a standing offer it took from him his imported
help as fast as it would arrive. Whisky was the
drawing card; but it cost the south contractor his
life. In a drunken mele he was killed by one of
his men. Then the northern man secured the
whole job, and finished the dike without whisky.
   During the time of this whisky contract the
Irish camp at night was an awful pandemonium.
The one dram each day was a whet to the Irish
appetite that afterwards knew no bounds. The
night-camp was an inferno. Many a poor man
lost his life in its drunken brawls. There being
no burial-grounds near, it was their custom to
take their dead comrades with them to the works
each morning, and lay the body in the embankment,
and before night it would be buried thirty
feet deep in the earth of the great construction,
there to await the resurrection morn. During
the day these plodding builders would not forget
to mention the virtues of the deceased. In
place of a priest, their fulsome praises of the dead
were made to answer for a funeral service.
About the same things were said of each man;
but they were put in terms strong enough to



satisfy the living that splendid things would be
said of them, if any one of them should be
killed, and as like as any by the very man who
might swing the club to crack his brain.
   Next day after Jimmy was killed in the "Irish
dance," the men would put his wheelbarrow
where they could all pass by it, and each man
paid his respects to the memory of the dead.
   "Poor Jimmy!"
   "Jimmy was a good boy, Jimmy was."
   "Jimmy was a game man, but he had bad
luck last night."
   "Jimmy was a foine man with a shovel, Jimmy
was. No man on the works could hold a candle
to Jimmy. The works will suffer, the works
will suffer."
   "Jimmy was as plucky a man as ever yese
see. He would pick his man at the drop of a
hat."
   "Yes, poor Jimmy was too free that way. So
he is dead to-day."
   "But Jimmy was a good Catholic. He had
no priest to shrive his soul; but the Holy Mary
will be merciful to Jimmy when she knows the
grit in the man."
   In the course of a few years this lake filled
with the myriad life of the finny tribe, and 
attracted idlers to its banks for an easy living.



The land immediately about was largely owned
by the Canal Company, and these idlers took a
squatter's claim, built cabins, and were spending
a free and easy life. They were pre-empting
the best fishing-grounds, and making a monopoly
of the business. They were turning the 
Sabbath into a day of hunting and sport. They
were gambling and running houses of infamy to
the ruin of scores of young men. They were
killing the cattle of herdsmen for meat, and
were becoming insolent of what they called their
rights.
   It came to pass that the land-owners of the
region, to get rid of this bad citizenship, decided
to cut the embankment, and let the lake into the
river. The law formally protected the company;
but the whole canal scheme having failed of its
purpose, there was no utility in the lake, and if
cut, in case of resuscitation of the canal project,
the lake could be restored at an expense of a few
hundred dollars. There was a plot to cut it out,
but it was a plot in the interests of decency and
good morals. The time set to cut the embankment
was on a certain November night. A particular 
wild Irishman--a land-owner, professing
friendship--gave the plot to the fishers; and,
unexpectedly, these forty or more men, when
they had reached the place for the cutting,



found as many or more fishermen, armed to the
teeth, and in possession of the embankment.
Shovels and pickaxes were of no service against
pistols and shotguns; so there was nothing to
do but to retreat in good order, if possible. The
hot-headed among the fishermen were urging
war on the spot. They proposed to make use
of the advantage. The land-owners scattered
and dismounted, and stood behind their horses.
The cool-headed among the fishermen were 
disposed to be peaceable. In one sense they had
the advantage; but to make use of it would avail
little. In an attack in the dark they could not
hope to kill many of these law-breakers, and
there would be a hereafter. The fishermen were
disposed to parley. Under the shadow and
covert of a thick grove of walnut-trees, the 
landowners had quietly gathered for council, and had
decided to ride off, leaving the men in possession,
when the leader of the other party called
out in the dark:
   "I will meet your spokesman, and he shall
not be harmed."
   The leader of the citizens thereupon walked
out with four others, and held a consultation with
them. The fishermen said they were there to
protect their property interests. They admitted
the count of bad morals and thieving, and promised



to lead in a reform. The parley closed with
an agreement that the lake should stand two
years, to give the fishermen time to wear out
their nets, and then the dike should be cut. But
at the end of the two years the fishers were better
equipped than ever.
   On another blessed November night, at the
late hour of eleven, the old clan met at the place
of its former defeat, armed to the teeth, and with
trusty pickets and scouts to guard the workmen
while the embankment was being cut through.
Before daylight there was a stream running
through, two feet wide and eighteen inches deep.
Before night next day, the crevasse was fifty
feet wide and ten feet deep. What a fearful
torrent and flood of water rushed out to flood the
low-lands beyond! What multitudes of damage-
suits followed! Several arrests were made for
the destruction of public property; but nothing
came of them, except a number of fat attorney's
fees.
   All this is incidentally preliminary to a great
fishing time. After the water had run about
half down in the lake, some parties staked the
crevasse, and kept the bulk of the fish from 
entering the river. They had finally to resort to
the bed of the creek, which was three miles or
more in length, and to an occasional bayou, and



to an original shallow pond covering about forty
acres. With the approach of winter the water
froze over, and on the ice fell an eighteen-inch
snow. The fish were so packed in this confinement,
and so shut off from the air by this covering,
that when a hole was cut in the ice, they
rushed up to it like pigs to a trough. They
could be taken out with any sort of snare or
sharp instrument. The common tool used was a
pitchfork. The news of this sort of fishing soon
spread over the country, and the creek and pond
were lined with men with teams, and hundreds
of tons were- taken within a fortnight. I cut a
small hole in the ice near an old log, and in two
hours and a half took from it fifteen hundred
pounds of fish. Alas! there was no skill in this,
and there was no luxury in it. The whole community
was surfeited with fish. Besides, the
goose that laid the golden egg was slain. I have
had a thousand regrets about the destruction of
this beautiful lake of water. With that, my 
fishing days were ended.
   



   


               CHAPTER XIV.

   "WILD OATS"-TWO CROPS.

     
        
     "Stinkingest of the stinking kind,
     Filth of the mouth, and fog of the mind,
     Africa that brags her foyson,
     Breeds no such prodigious poison."
        
                                       --LAMB.
     
   
          
             
           "Take the open air,
             The more you take the better;
           Follow Nature's laws
                To the very letter;
           Let the doctors go
                To the Bay of Biscay;
           Let alone the gin,
                The brandy, and the whisky."
             
             --ANON.
          


ONE afternoon, I was sent out over the 
neighborhood to invite hands in to help raise the
new barn-timbers next day. I had made my
way partly around, and passing through a wood-
lot, I fell in with a boy who had been to Hazel-
green in the forenoon, and had purchased a new
style of Star-plug tobacco. He was chopping
     


wood and chewing tobacco, especially the latter.
He was very much in love with the quality of
his plug. He, could take that thing from his
pocket, and put it to his lips with more than ordinary
gusto and manly dignity. I thought I
never met a boy with as fine manners. He
showed me how to swing an ax, and to strike
the timber at just the right angle to throw the
chips. He gave me quite a number of samples
of how a boy did who was able to put on airs.
I borrowed a chew of tobacco. This fellow was
a liberal soul, and offered it freely. He urged it
on me. Tobacco-users, they say, are all free-
hearted. They will divide the last chew with a
fellow-mortal, though he be a stranger. And
they take to themselves great credit for this
trait, as if they were some sort of superior beings,
made so by the possession of the bent of this
appetite. The whole guild is more or less self-
deceived by that thing. That is not 
free-beartedness, or liberality, or a desire to benefit others,
but a desire to divide a certain amount of 
filthiness and sin with others. Mortals are given to
deceiving themselves with the notion that, if
others are involved in similar weaknesses and
sins with their own, there is a divided 
responsibility. This high spitter of a boy, with all his
airs, was not exactly easy with his fresh plug,



and he sought to involve another boy for 
companionship. He succeeded. He made me feel
like a child in his presence, and then made a
fool of me. I took a chew, and went on. There
was a pretty girl at the next house. I had my
pockets full of sweet notes from her, and another
was due me. I intended to go in there and
make myself agreeable; but before I reached
the gate, I was having some very disagreeable
feelings. I halted at the gate, made my errand
known, and, with very little courteous ceremony,
I turned down the path that led out into the
woods toward home. I walked in the path alone
for a while, and then, using the path for direction,
I made it from tree to tree. I saw things green,
and I saw things black. Then I turned 
completely blind. The world w:uld whirl half way
round with me, and then whirl back. The path
before me would wriggle like a struck serpent,
then come up before my eyes and scatter itself,
till I could not find it. Several times the path
scattered itself among the tree-tops, and I could
not go on without it. While holding to the trees,
I had the sensation of slipping up to the tops, of
turning to a turkey-buzzard, and of soaring into
the sky, and vomiting filth and carrion over the
fields. I would get about a mile high, then I
would turn to a jackass, and go thundering to



the ground; and with an awful thrash I would
bring up at the roots of the tree where I started.
I remember at the time wondering at that.
After one of these flights, I could see the path
again for a few yards ahead; then the green and
the black would return, and the path would sift
itself out through the tree-tops, and I would
take a greater buzzard-flight than ever, turn
to a jackass, lose my powers of flight, and come
to the ground with an awful thud. Alighting
seemed to knock me into my senses for a few
minutes. I made this trip three separate times.
You say I was sick? Yes, I was really sick ; but
it was doubtless good for me that I got such
first-class entertainment out of my first chew.
It induced me to go out of the business, then
and there. If the nausea of the poisonous 
narcotic had come into my system by tidbits, I
might have been a tobacco-user. But, soberly,
will a weed that throws the body and brain into
that sort of furor be of any value to either?
Some one has defined a cigar as "a little roll of
tobacco, with fire at one end, and a fool at the
other."
   I do not fully understand how I came through
my boyhood days sober and respectable. Since
I am not a drunkard, I am certainly not a
creature of circumstances. Environment 



sometimes works its opposite. It produces disgust,
and throws one the other way. The laziest
man in all our country raised a remarkably 
industrious boy. The healthful influence of 
opposites, however, is only exceptional. The law of
an evil life is in the direction of the sway of
temptation. The old Lanning grocery in Hazel-
green was a standing woe. It was a miserable
shanty, with a rude counter along one side and
across one end, and on this counter was the
great whisky-barrel, with a faucet and a tin-cup.
The drinking of rum, the debauchery, and blood-
shed of this hole, no pen will ever describe. In
the name of the wreck of all the playmates of
my childhood, except two; in the name of every
broken-hearted woman in that community; in
the name of every child born with the alcoholic
life in its veins; in the name of a community
overcrowded with weaklings because of rum, I
put down an indictment against that Lanning
grocery. I put down the work of one little
doggery.   I put it down because my soul
loathes it.
   
   
   Under one proprietor it has made a 
thousand drunkards.
   More than twenty of these have died with
delirium tremens.
   A thousand women, and as many more



children, have been brought into wrongful and
cruel suffering.
   Lanning's children, five in number, all
gone to the bad.
   The business of the community robbed of
its strength, and the enterprise of it driven out.
   For Lanning himself, an old age of 
despair and abject poverty.


   I was under the influence ot liquor once.
Three of us, one Christmas eve--Dan Banner,
Lewis Hardy, and myself--went to Hazelgreen,
and made the following investment. We had
no thought of doing such a thing, until we were
in the atmosphere of the place. We had gone
to make our usual Christmas purchase of 
candies and toys:

      
         Three glasses of beer,15 cents.
         Three   "    "15   "
         Three   "    "15   "
         Three glasses of wine,30   "
         One glass of whisky for Dan,10   "
      

   We bought some matches and nails. We
had no purpose in this, other than to give an air
of business to the transaction. We went out of
town noisy. We threw the nails against a barn,
and made a fearful racket. On the road home,
Dan took offense at some small matter, and



wanted to fight. Rather than not get a fight
he would try both of us at once. We were not
in a fighting humor, and were surely not in 
fighting condition, and we persuaded Dan to put that
thing off a day or two. We stopped by the road-
side, and wasted our matches trying to start a
fire with green-oak branches. Lewis tumbled
into the leaves, and was soon in a maudlin and
insensible state. I took .in the situation, and,
with Dan's help, we loaded him up, and started
down the road to Lewis's house. We had gone
about twenty feet when we had a head-end
collision. The ground was frozen and rough, and
we both stumbled and fell. Lewis gave a 
pitiful, quivering whine, as his head went into a
deep rut, and as we could get nothing further
from him, we thought we had killed him. We
felt for his pulse, and did not find any. We
carried him down to his mother's house, and laid
him on the top plank of the steps, made for 
crossing the rail-fence in front of the cabin. His
mother was a widow. We could not bear the
thought of taking in to her the dead boy. We
straightened out his legs along the plank, and
tied them together with Dan's big bandana.
With my handkerchief we tied his wrists 
together across his breast. We put a chip on
each eye, to keep them from the hideous open





   "WE PUT CHIPS ON HIS EYES."



      


death-gaze when his mother should find him next
morning; and we left him there in the cold
silence of that wintry night. We left him, 
somewhat consoling ourselves with the idea that his
body, fixed in that way, would be in shape for
the coffin. This was long after midnight. I
went home with Dan for the two or three hours
till daylight. In a silly, whimpering way, we
talked of going to the funeral next day, and tried
to think of the future of a boy who died drunk.
I was first to come from under the influence of
the intoxicants. What fearful physical 
depression and headache! What awful moral 
humiliation! What smitings and agony of remorse!
There was a slight mental relief in the 
knowledge, without going to make inquiry, that Lewis
was not dead. But physical death to myself, or
to the other boys, under natural circumstances,
would not have been so awful as this occurrence.
I had been so familiar with drunkenness in
others, and had so loathed it, and now it had
touched my own life with its damning disgrace!
Without feeling that the other boys were greater
sinners than myself, I resolved to break their
companionship. I resolved never again to 
enter Lanning's grocery. I started home, and the
thought of meeting my parents, filled me with
horror. What account could I give of myself?



We had not thought of drinking until we 
entered the grocery. But why did we do such a
thing? I searched for mitigation and excuse,
and found none. I seriously, for the first time
in my life, contemplated not returning home.
The thing was not done in a corner, and the
news broken to my mother would put despair
into her life about me, and break her heart. I
saw, through the dark contrasts of that morning,
how my mother's pride had been centered in
me. Every stitch in my clothing had been
taken by her diligent fingers. The blue-and-
scarlet wool-muffler around my neck had been
finished by her needle the day before, and tied
about me with a kiss. I could stand my 
father's chastisement, if it came; but I could not
meet my mother's sorrow. The news reached
them before I did; for it was high-noon before I
had made the journey of half a mile. When I
entered the house, there was silence, and there
was silence in that home for days. I could see
that they were wondering if this was the 
beginning; if all their hopes and plans were to be
blasted. They showed me the greatest 
solicitude. Mother especially was more than usually
attentive to my wants. I never saw the glory
of this home-love till then, and it seemed to be
burning me up. Instead of wrath, I had kindled



love, and it was about to consume me. No word
of rebuke ever came from either of them. After
some days of this chastening silence, father said
to me:
   "Rodney, I had rather bury my boy, than to
know that he would live to become a drunkard."
   Mother said:
   "If you want to kill your mother, take 
another drink in Lanning's grocery."
   I told them that if they could trust me at
all, they should never have another hour's 
anxiety about that. Then the shadows fled from
that home, and the coming days brought a 
blooming paradise.
   The man who sells liquor is a scamp. The
man who buys and drinks it is a scamp. That
drinkers are simply unfortunate people, with
good, clever hearts, is sickly sentimentalism.
Drinking, when its consequences are known, is
always the product of a bad principle.
   Not long ago I was in conversation with a
famous physician, who had come from the sick-
room, and he said:
   "I have just been trying to patch up the
body of an old toper."
   I said:
   "Do you prescribe alcohol?"
   "I seldom use it in my practice."
                                     


    "Why?"
    "Well, there is no place for it as a necessity
 of life. It supplies no force to matter. It has
 no new matter for organized tissue. The animal
 tissues can not assimilate alcohol. It is a
 product of death, not of life. It is one of the
 ghosts of putrefaction and decay."
   "What is the first effect of alcohol on the
system?"
   "It quickens the action of the heart. This it
does by weakening the contractile force of the
arteries and minute blood-vessels; but languor
always follows this increased and unnatural work.
Chloroform will do the same thing. Alcohol is
only slower."
   "What is the next effect of alcohol on the
system?"
   "Functional muscular change. The lower lip
usually gives the first sign. Then there is loss
of use of the limbs. The most effective way to
ruin the muscular power is to introduce alcohol
into the system."
   "What do you regard as the next stage?"
   "The mind is in chaos. Reason is off duty.
The stomach also revolts, and there is vomiting.
The animal instincts are supreme, and there is
finally insensibility."
   "What gives the toper his red nose?"



   "That is a delicate question; some people
have red noses who are not addicted to alcohol."
   "I am aware of that, doctor; I am after a
diagnosis of the toper's nose. The other folks
never neglect an opportunity for explanation.
Each one of them tells you how his proboscis
came to be in that condition; and he tells it
glibly, as if he had familiarized himself with it."
   "Then I will tell you. It is the effect of
alcohol on the blood corpuscles. The frequent
weakening of the contractile force of the small
blood-vessels affects them so that they do not
return to their normal condition after the immediate
effect of the alcohol is gone. The blood-
vessels become irregular and congested. Cutaneous
excitation passes away at first; but finally
the vascular supply remains to tell the tale of a
constant debauch. The abiding effects of 
intoxicants shows on the nose first because the
circulation in the nose is feebler than in most
other parts of the body. Alcohol has done its
damage elsewhere.
   "The reduction of arterial tension by alcohol
is also the cause of roaring in the head, often 
experienced by drinkers. Indeed, the permanent
effects of the alcoholic life are the most serious.
It were serious, but not so greatly so, if surface
excitement, and uncertain muscular action, and



the maudlin foolishness of a crazed brain, were
the only results. Alcohol produces an excess of
fatty globules, causing fatty degeneration of the
heart. It also produces an excess of the connecting 
tissues-affects the liver, and brings on 
abdominal dropsy. It is also the fruitful cause of
Bright's disease; and of course delirium tremens
and death."







                CHAPTER XV.

   AN INDIAN LEGEND.

       
         
       Over wide and rushing rivers
       In his arms he bore the maiden;
       Light he thought her as a feather,
       As the plume upon his headgear;
       Cleared the tangled pathway for her,
       Bent aside the swaying branches,
       Made at night a lodge of branches,
       And a bed with boughs of hemlock,
       And a fire before the doorway
       With the dry cones of the pine-tree.
       All the traveling winds went with them,
       O'er the meadows, through the forest;
       All the stars of night looked at them,
       Watched with sleepless eyes their slumber."
         
                                  --LONGFELLOW.
       

ONE bright, brisk morning in June we turned
      the cattle out of the pound in the edge of
the timber, and drove them westward more than
a mile to the sweet grass on the high ground of
Fort Harrison Prairie. We started them 
 


northward as we had done many a day before, and
they went lazily feeding over the short grass
toward the marshes of Lost River, two miles or
more away. The cattle knew as well as we did
how long it would take them to fill their
paunches, and about when they would get thirsty,
and where they would get water. By ten o'clock
they would reach the lowlands, and go tramping
knee-deep in mud through the sage and elbow-
brush to the edge of the sluggish stream that
had hardly channel and current enough to know
where it was going. They would fill themselves
with water, and stand in the stream midsides
deep, without moving for half an hour. An ox
full of grass and water is the laziest thing on
earth. These cattle, after cooling themselves,
unless they got a scare, would hide in the
deepest shades along the water-course till the
middle of the afternoon, and would then come
browsing over the prairie again. Our work for
the day, therefore, was not finished till near 
sunset. Herding cattle is a lonesome, lazy business,
if it is skillfully done. There is no profit in it
unless skillfully done. The cattle, while 
feeding, must be let alone. To be forever bunching
them is to fail utterly.
   We knew our business, and the next thing to
do was to get ourselves out of sight somewhere



in the shade, and take things easy for at least
twelve mortal hours.
   Our horses were sniffing the fresh air of this
June morning in a restless way, wanting to be
turned loose to their own feeding. Father was
mounted on a dark, dapple-bay printer horse,
which was seven years old that day. The
morning sun shining on his glossy coat showed
him as spotted as a leopard. He was a nervous,
fretful creature. He was not vicious or tricky,
but so high-tempered and full of life that only
a splendid horseman and rider was safe in
handling him. Whoever mounted him found
both his forefeet in the air to be off like a flash.
No slow-poke was ever on Jerry's back. When
your foot first touched the stirrup, you had to
mount or quit trying. Jerry was not averse to
being ridden--he only meant to say by this wild
impetuosity of spirit: "I will carry you like a
cradle, and as fast as the wind, if you can get
into the saddle." To be carried by this great
horse was worth an effort. The fine nervous
spirit of the animal under you was like a tonic
to the system. I had been on this horse, and
had held my breath, and let him fly over
the prairie. He was not my horse, and I was a
little jealous of him.
   I was riding a powerfully built sorrel mare,



five years old, who answered to the name of
Croppie. She had known nothing but the saddle
from a colt. She had been trained specially
for cattle-driving, and was finely adapted for its
quick spurts and short turns. She was high-
spirited, but in a different way. She had never
known defeat. She was ill-natured almost 
beyond endurance--certain she was to nip me,
when I mounted, unless I held her head the
other way with the rein. She believed in her
own rights and powers. Among fifty horses she
would master the whole of them. She scorned
a fence, and during a night she would lead
everything in her field into mischief. Over the
prairies and along the roads I had tried the
crack animals of all the boys of the country, and
she easily led them. But she was always mad
about it. She ran with her ears back. She
seemed to enjoy being mad at everything about
her. I often wondered if she knew her beauty
was marred by the tip of one ear being frozen
off when she was a foal, and if that had not
made her ill-natured. This mare was my property.
I was afraid of the speed of Jerry, and
jealous. The two had never been tried together
in a test of speed; but I had sent them both
separately over the smooth sod, and had tried



to gauge the speed of each by the swish of the
air, and by the way the tufts of grass flew by
me. Jerry looked as if he could outrun Croppie.
For a mile heat, I was sure he could; and if
ever the test came I intended to stipulate the
distance.
   Father says:
   "Well, my son, the cattle will now take care
of themselves till we need to put them in the
hurtle at night, so we might as well hunt a
shade and hobble the horses on the grass."
   "Where shall we go?"
   I was looking wistfully down a stretch of
prairie with as smooth a surface as ever nature
makes in the wilds, towards a cottonwood-tree
standing alone in the open space not more than
a long quarter away. I was on the point of
saying to father, "Watch Croppie. run!" when
he startled me by saying:
   "I can beat you to that cottonwood."
   "Come along then," I said; but before the
words I had lashed the mare in the flank, and
the third jump I was leading the horse a length.
My mare did not need the whip to do her best
that morning, but I gave her the lash each jump
on general principles. I came out three lengths
ahead. Each turned outward in a short curve



and brought up under the cottonwood. The
two racers put their noses together, and father
said:
   "Hi, ho! your little sorrel hoss can run like
a jack-rabbit."
   I paid no attention to the slightly 
disrespectful banter. I knew I was riding the queen of
the turf.  Nothing more was said about the
race. We turned the heads of the horses 
westward, and went at a slow pace down a narrow
dip in the ground, and up on the high bank
which overlooked the Wabash more than a mile
each way. The tulip-trees were in full bloom,
and their branches were hanging over the banks
till the tips kissed the water. There were
shrubs of every kind, and such wild profusion of
flowers that the air was redolent with their 
perfume. Across the stream in the low ground,
where the river had thrown its alluvial for 
generations, great sycamores and walnut-trees
towered till the tops were level with the eye as
we stood on the summit of the prairie. The
sun was throwing a monstrous silver sheen on
the water. The finny tribe were snapping up
every beetle that was so unfortunate as to strike
the current. Spirits of Beethoven and Handel
and Mendelssohn, keep silence here! The
birds in these branches are bringing from their



throats a chorus of songs greater than all your
oratorios of art. 0, the ravishing beauty of
that place! The greatest dullard would have
been hushed into silence by the scene. This
aroma of leaf and bud and exuding trees is an
enchantment, but it is real. If this does not
enter into your life, what does? To walk over
a carpet of cowslips and blooming buttercups
is to have the sweetest thoughts, and to have
new messages of beauty enswathe the spirit.
   There may be things in these visions of the
beautiful in nature that the morbid soul never
sees; but to the soul able to read nature, it is all
very real. There is not the first glint of 
hallucination about it. Invisible currents of 
magnetic charm come from the trees and the 
flowers. To resist such a charm is to be a great
sinner.  What free course the spirit has!
What broad fellowship the heart feels! What
catholic sympathies the soul breathes! Nature
is a mesmerist in her quieter moods, and she is
wholesome in her violences. Her lessons are
all spontaneous. There is no plan or 
premeditation, no getting ready for an onslaught of
pedagogy. There is a simple, clear voicing of
the truth in monosylables. Nature is the 
greatest teacher of childhood. Purity, sincerity,
brotherhood are poured into a child's soul



through its avenues of beauty. Nature is never
weary, she is never impatient; she never scolds,
so that you are afraid to go again. Nature is
willing to wait till the fullness of her beauty is
able to show itself in the developed forces of
your own character. She does not expect to
change the spirit radically or momentarily.
Her hand is most delicately plastic. Nature is
not a hard teacher; she wooes and wooes until
the heart's strife is calmed in her presence. The
things done for the soul by the trees and brooks
and sky are not formally recorded. They
simply do their work and want no credit. To
teach useful things, and reveal herself by 
degrees--this is nature's business. Nature is coy
of a thousand things. This wrought universe
is largely a mystery yet. The human mind has
only come into the edges of the great unexplored.
But nature says, If you will come into
responsive association with my moods, I will
not hide my heart's love from you. Follow the
bees, and be taught industry, wisdom, 
government. Go into your garden and tend it; but
listen to what the flowers say to you, and the
voices that speak to you out of the shimmer of
the morning and evening light streams, and
then go up to gleam at you from the stars. Go
out under the covering of the night when the



dew is falling, uncover your head, and let God
bathe your brow with nectar, and claim you for
his child.  We have no use for any theology
which denies nature's teaching. We have never
felt free to deny it a spiritual existence. Nearly
all that is real about it must be spiritual. These
evanescent and changing forms of matter do not
constitute its reality. When the soul of a child
responds to the opening of a flower, it is drawn
by something more than the organic chemistries.
There are real spiritual forces at play on the
spirit there. So it is that the things most 
completely natural are the greatest character-builders.
A biologist is not so deductively. He has
deciphered great laws from a multitude of small
things; and the least sinful of all the idolatries
is to become a worshiper at shrines built in the
woods, or on the prairie, or on the ocean, or in
the angry bosom of the storm-cloud. A boy in
the country lives close up to a lot of facts, and
the real substance of all his experience comes to
be a part of him  in manhood. Their intent,
greater than we usually give credit for, is to 
influence his nature. The things a boy gets from
nature are not spread out before him all at once.
They are not ostensibly spread before him at all.
He opens his eyes and sees; he hears, he touches,
he tastes, he smells; and all these sensuous



awakenings abide his own time for subsidizing
and reflection. What he needs is given him in
fragments, without his being able at the time
to see how they go together. From the many
pictured pages he may not see the profound 
harmony and unity until he is able to correct all
spiritual aberrations in the sober, settled 
experiences of mature manhood. Man matured is the
best known illustration of the correlation of
foroes. All nature is conserved in the 
countryman come to town. The trees and brooks and
landscapes have an immortality in him.
   So the wild life of my childhood had this
deep philosophy to me. The same conditions
to-day would afford me a great and instructive
companionship. I am yet frequently driven to
go out into the thickest woods, and stand under
the overarching trees, and feel their sympathy
and stillness and seclusion, and let them take all
the bitterness and soreness out of my heart, so
that I can feel at peace with the world again. I
can not get so near God in this great crowd.
My heart aches for the woods. 0 the woods,
the woods!

   Father had removed his hat, and was looking
out over the water in reverent silence. There he
stood, six feet two inches--his black hair, now at



forty, turned to an iron gray--smooth-shaven
face, thin lips, decided Roman nose, reddish blue
eye, and as keen as a hawk's. He had in him all
the marks of a fine Scotch ancestry. He was
not a philanthropist with broad views, but a 
typical American.  He was a money-maker and a
lover of his family. He gave the energy of his
business life to my mother and myself. He was
a proud man that day. I believe he was proud
of me; not because I beat him in the race, but
because of the awful purpose I showed to come
out ahead. It would have been the same if he
had beaten me; and he really intended to do
that, but he did not have the horse-flesh under
him.   He saw, I think, that there was some of
his own spirit in me, and he was proud of it.
Nothing of this did he say; he simply looked
out over the water.
   The horses reaching for the prairie-grass, 
reminded us that we must unsaddle and let them
graze. He took two hobbles from the loops 
behind his saddle, fastened them around the fet-
locks of the horses, then slipped the bridles and
let them go. We turned into the shade of some
apple-trees, which were now laden with the 
settings of fruit.
   "This is the famous Indian orchard," said
father.



   There were five large, thrifty trees set in a
semicircle, opening to the south. The elevation
of the ground in the center was artificial, and
there were plain traces of the wigwams of the
savages. I soon found some arrow-heads, and
the upper and nether stones of an Indian meal-
mill, about worn out, and for that reason, 
doubtless, cast away there.
   "Did the Indians plant this orchard?" I
asked.
   "Yes; they brought the seeds from 
Pennsylvania. Here the tribes were permanent enough
for this sort of business. There is a beautiful
legend about this orchard, and this piece of
ground in the center."
   "What was the legend?"
   "I do not know that I can tell it as it was."
   "Try it, father; try it."
   "I will tell it as I heard it, and if it is not all
true to fact, it is true to nature.
   "This, you see, is a surpassingly beautiful
spot. So will you find that the camp-grounds of
these 'children of the forest' are usually famous
for beauty of situation. We are charmed with
this beauty, and the Indians were attracted by
the same things. An Indian encampment is an
infallible index to the finest point in the country.
   "This orchard gets its name from the legend.




   WIGWAM OF LENA AND NEMO.



   


These trees were planted and cared for by the
heroine of the story. Eighty years ago there
was here an Indian village. You see that this
is the only place within miles where such a view
of the river can be had. Here the tawny 
savages fished and hunted. Here, on the clear
ground, the squaws raised Indian-corn. On these
stones they ground it into meal. On other flat
stones they baked it for their lords, and took a
little for themselves, if there was any left. Here
Indian boys were tanned by the sun darker than
nature in birth had made them. Here they 
became skillful with the bow and the sling. Here
the young warriors would come from the hunt,
throw their game at the wigwam door, and go
down to the river there and bathe their weary
limbs, return to the camps, and recount deeds
of valor for the hundredth time.
   "Among the women of this village was one
unlike the rest. She was a young, fair-haired,
blue-eyed Anglo-Saxon. She was prized for her
superior knowledge in tent-making, for her skill
in tilling the soil, and for the fact that she had
added refinement to every rude Indian art. The
Indians of this country, as you have already
learned in your school-books, contested every
inch of ground against the approach of the white
man. From the Eastern Coast to the Mississippi
                 


might be called conquered territory. But the 
Indian left a bloody and blackened road behind him.
He has faded before the white man, because the
white man is a man of destiny. As the Indian
retreated, he burned and pillaged white 
settlements, and carried off with him women and
children. This beautiful, blue-eyed girl in the
camp of the Delawares was taken when a child
from a burning cabin, after its father and
mother had been massacred. The girl had
never known any other than this sort of life.
   "When it became apparent to the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania that she must, in self-
protection, guard the far West from the 
encroachments of a foreign power, it became
necessary to make peace with the Indian tribes
of the region, To do this, there must be shown
a vigorous policy toward them. Pennsylvania
furnished a thousand troops, to which was
added a company from Virginia, who marched
into this Western country to treat with the
strong tribes up and down the Ohio. Finding
an army coming west, many of the people of
the States, and from the settlements, who had
relations or friends who had been captured by
the Indians, came west to search for them.
   "The campaign was under the command of
 General Boquet, who succeeded finally in holding
 


a peace-council with the representatives
from the Delawares and the Senecas and the
Shawnees. After the pipe of peace had been
smoked, and after much parley, they pledged
themselves to bury the hatchet, and to bring in
all the white captives as far west as the Wabash.
The Shawnees were sullen and morose
in this council, and they were the strongest
and most warlike tribe; but they finally 
consented to bring in all the white captives. Red
Hawk was their chief representative and orator,
and his voice was law among them.
   "By the stipulation of the peace treaty, all
the white captives were to be brought in by the
next spring. Runners were sent to all the 
villages to carry the news of the treaty, and with
them went an order to bring in the captives.
A fearless and swift Shawnee brave was 
dispatched to the villages along the Wabash. His
course was a direct one. By the rising and the
setting sun, by the moss on the trees, and, when
neither of these were available, by an unerring
Indian instinct, this young warrior, just now 
approaching manhood, made his way across 
pathless woods and broad rivers, and through dark
forests, where even the Red Man had seldom
been. He would take his food with the arrow
and bow from game so unused to being hunted



that nothing tried to escape him. He plucked
wild grapes from the burdened trees, and drank
water from sources that none but the wild animals
had ever known. At night he slept on
the ground, with his two arms for a pillow, and
with nothing for his covering but the emerald
mantle of an American sky. Day after day he
traveled through wood and over prairie, till, at
last, in the afternoon of an autumn day, he
stood yonder across the valley on the knoll by
that cottonwood, and he saw the smoke curling
from the wigwams of this Delaware village.
Through the glint of orange and crimson leaves
he saw the waters of the Wabash for the first
time. The day before, a mountain-eagle had
swept in front of him, and he had put an arrow
through it, and had plucked its finest feathers
for his hair. A broad belt, richly wrought with
beads, encircled his waist. In this belt was a
scalping-knife and a tomahawk. A tanned deer-
skin was thrown over his shoulder in old Roman
fashion. His ankles were wrapped half-way to
his knees with the strings that fastened his
moccasins. In the rich gloaming of that autumn
evening, clad in the finest Indian costume, stood
Nemo, the hero of this legend, before the 
wigwam of old Wakarusa. This aged chieftain
(after a vesper-song from the blue-eyed Saxon



girl) had been rehearsing for more than the
hundredth time stories of his own bravery; and,
flushed with the excitement of his own tales, he
saw a shadow fall into the door of the wigwam.
He looked up, and there stood, not three paces
away, a hated Shawnee. Old Wakarusa raised
the war-whoop and grasped his weapons. The
young Shawnee stepped back a few paces, drew
an arrow from his quiver, fixed it in his bow, and
stood waiting.  The Delaware chief advanced
with tomahawk till Nemo had drawn his bow to
transfix him, when the blue-eyed Lena rushed
between them, and shouted to Wakarusa:
   "'O, my father, slay not the stranger. He
only asks for food and shelter, and he comes
on a peaceful mission.'
   "'Does a Delaware parley with a Shawnee?'
said the old man.
   "'He is an enemy,' said Lena 'but he is tired
and hungry, and asks for repose. Did a Delaware
ever refuse these even to an enemy?'
   "The old chief threw down his tomahawk,
and welcomed the young brave. Lena placed
food before the new-comer, and then gave the
old chief his venison. After the silent meal,
Nemo took from his neck a string of shells, on
one of which was engraved the Great Chief;
and on another a pipe of peace; and on another



was engraved Nemo himself, leading a white
captive to the home of the Great Chieftain.
These symbolic were plain to Wakarusa. He
knew that the Shawnee had authority from the
whites to take Lena to the settlements. Lena
listened attentively, but she could not 
understand it all. She knew she was a pale-face but
she had never seen another than her own. She
had an indistinct and filmy memory of her
childhood. Her mother's face would come 
before her now and then, like a passing shadow.
She had a confused impression that she had
been in war and had fled from fire. She was
looking in the face of the old chief, and she saw
consternation there, and she said:
   "'What is it my father?  Has the Shawnee
brought you bad news? Have the Delawares been
defeated? Has the Great Spirit forsaken us?'
   "'My child,' said Wakarusa; 'you are the
fair one among a thousand. You are as pure as
the snow, and dear to me as my life. I took you
from a burning building after your father and
mother had both been killed; and 0, how many
moons I have been a father to you! And now
the pale faces have sent for you. I know the
consequence of keeping you here. You are not
a Delaware. The wigwams of your people are
far toward the sunrising.'



   "'Why should I leave you?' said Lena; 'I
know no other father. If there are people of
my blood, I do not know them and will not be
like them. This wigwam is the only home I
know. Must I leave it?'
   "'My child,' said Wakarusa, 'waste no words.
You know not what you say. By the time of
the morning light be ready to go with this young
Shawnee. He will not harm you. He must
give an account to the white man for your keeping.
Wakarusa's heart is broken. The prairie-
grass will grow over his grave in a few days.
My eyes are now dim, and I shall never see you
again, my beauty.'
   "In the gray dawn of next morning Nemo led
Lena through the dew of the grass over the
prairie sward where we left the cattle an hour
ago. He led her toward the sunrising along the
way of the pathless forest. Other captives were
brought to Nemo, and he became their guide in
the long journey eastward.
   "Nemo gave his finest care to Lena. He
wrapped her in his own deerskin in the chill of
the night. He fed her with the best parts of the
venison. The- Shawnee moved and won the
heart of Lena. They were betrothed; but the
white captives were delivered, and Lena with
them. Nemo returned to his people, but there



was a great purpose in his heart not to lose his
fair-haired Saxon. The flesh of his own dark
cheek was not a curse, and he claimed her with
a silent oath before the Great Spirit, and with
his approval. Lena's childhood had fixed her
character. She knew nothing of her father and
mother, and her brothers were as strangers. She
had no taste for the delicate living and rich 
luxuries of the civilized. Her heart was never
drawn from her Indian lover, and she wept for
the glorious beauty of her home on the Wabash.
   "The written statutes have but little control
over the affections. The laws of Pennsylvania
forbid this admixture of blood in marriage; but
it did not prevent the mutual love of these two
children of the woods. Under cover of the
night Nemo escaped with his betrothed into the
forest, and they undertook their long journey to
their home on the Wabash. After the two were
far beyond the bounds of civilization, with the
primeval forest two hundred miles deep all about
them, these plighted ones were married by all
the forms that nature knows anything about.
There, in an open space in the woods, they
swore to each other a lifelong fidelity. The
wild fawn came to the edge of the thicket to 
attend the wedding. The bear growled consent.



An eagle flew above them, and screamed a 
welcome. This was to them mostly a silent, 
glorious journey of joy. They had to go cautiously,
sometimes traveling only by moon and stars
through the hunting-grounds of the Miamis,
who were the mortal enemies of the Shawnees.
One evening before sunset, as they were passing
by stealth through a dense growth of oaks, 
suddenly three Miamis were upon them. Nemo
leaped behind a tree, and the Miamis began tying
Lena's hands. Nemo put an arrow through the
foremost. The next Miami thought to keep Lena
between himself and her lover, but Nemo clipped
a ringlet from Lena's hair and sent an arrow
into his brain, and he dropped dead at her feet.
Nemo sprang from behind the tree, and the two
warriors stood for mortal combat. Nemo's
arrow missed its goal, and two tomahawks
whistled in the air. One now fought for love,
the other for hate. Nemo received the Miami's
blow on his left forearm, dropped his tomahawk,
caught the knife in his belt, and put it into the
heart of the Miami. Three scalps were taken,
and the two traveled by night till they were out
of the Miami country. When Nemo and Lena
reached this spot the summer was gone. The
snow covered the earth, and the bleak north-wind
whistled about them. The wild-geese and the



waterfowl of every species had gone south, and
the river was frozen from bank to bank.
   "The Delaware camp had been broken up,
and old Wakarusa had been buried yonder in
the prairie-grass, but the mound above it had
not yet sodded over. Neither asked the other
what to do. Nemo with his tomahawk cut ten
smooth poles and stood them together with an
opening at the top; then placed them around
with others; then covered this frame-work over
with bark, and outside of this they thatched it
with the tall spears of prairie-grass that stood
above the snow. They built a fire in the center.
Nemo rubbed together two pieces of basswood
punk till they took fire by friction, then he blew
them into flame with his breath. Nemo's trusty
bow supplied meat of turkey and deer, and here
they lived and loved till spring broke upon
them as we see it to-day.
   "Lena had brought apple-seeds in her wallet
from the orchards of her people. She planted
them here around her wigwam. This rude hut
was her home, and she garlanded it with flowers,
not neglecting the grave of her foster-father.
Her garden here was just such as this soil will
give to diligent hands. It was to her the gift of
God. Nemo was a warrior, but from his wife



he had learned to know God also. Rare 
combination, he was a worshiper and a brave.
   "For the length of many moons, here Nemo
and Lena lived with the wolf and the panther
and the bear for their companions--with the
birds for their friends. This paradise of nature
was their home. Their canoe was like a thing
of life on these waters, and the sweetest fish
to be caught from any stream Lena roasted
over the coals in her, tent. They were a law
unto themselves. They saw the truth, and 
followed it. They answered the voices of nature;
so they paid no penalty, and were happy.
   "A child was born unto them--a beautiful,
bright-eyed boy. This child was brave and 
tender-hearted. Lena clothed him in the finest
buckskin, and wrapped him in furs on wintry
nights. She would weave his hair with the
feathers of the red-bird, and in the beauty of
spring she would deck his brow each day with
a coronal of flowers. Lena was a happy woman.
   "One autumn day, as the sun was beginning
to touch the tops of the trees in the lowlands
here, Nemo was sitting in the door of his tent,
while Lena was preparing the evening meal,
when his eye caught a moving object making
its way around that drift yonder, just this side



of the bend in the river. Nemo's eye kept
trace of the moving thing as it came around
the drift, and crept close to the bank, and came
up the stream, until he could see that it was a
canoe containing five painted warriors. The
canoe stopped in the eddy at the bank yonder,
and five braves crouched into the willows, and
began single file to ascend the bluff. Nemo
sprang for his weapons and shouted through his
teeth, "Miamis!" This was answered with
a war-whoop, and the Miamis came rushing
toward the wigwam. In their rush their arrows
were missing their mark. An arrow from
Nemo's bow killed the leader, and another the
next, then the three were upon him. In the
desperate encounter he took the life of another
Miami, and an arrow pierced his own breast, and
he fell dead at the door of his tent. Lena in
consternation took the child from its couch,
threw it into the arms of her enemies; then
caught the scalping-knife from the belt of her
dead husband, and took her own life before they
could reach her,--thus preferring death to dishonor.
   "It is said the surviving Miamis buried Nemo
and Lena both in one grave out there beside old
Wakarusa. The legend goes on to say this
child was taken down the river to the Miami



tribe, grew up among them, and escaped to the
Shawnees and was the companion of Tecumseh
at the time of the treaty with General Harrison;
that he fought in the battle of Tippecanoe, and
finally died by the side of the great chief in
the battle of the Thames. Thus endeth the
legend. It is known to all the tribes. It is a
standard in Indian folk-lore. The Shawnees
believed there was an enchantment about this
place, and their maidens thought it a priceless
privilege to make a pilgrimage to the grave of
the virtuous and heroic Lena.
   "It is past noon and we have not eaten,"
said father.
   The place seemed to me too sacred for 
hunger, and I went out to the summit to see if the
horses were in sight, and when I returned he
had unrolled the delicate lunch mother had 
prepared for us. We minced at it. Father had
been so wrought upon by his own story that he
had no desire for food, and he then laughed at
it. We talked another hour of the Indians. I
dug into the tent-mound--found other trinkets
of beads and carved shells and arrow-heads--
placed the find in the packsaddle--then we
caught the horses and rode back over the prairie,
where we found the cattle ready filled for the
kraal. We reached home an hour after night-



fall, and a queenly woman gave her husband
and son a royal welcome.
   My thoughts and feelings about the Indians
were largely shaped by this legend and the Life
of Daniel Boone. Neither of them is quite true
to life. One overdraws the picture, and the
other does not do the Indian justice.


      




               CHAPTER XVI.

   SUNSHINE.

 
    
       "A worm! A god!--I tremble at myself,
 And in myself am lost. At home, a stranger,
 Thought wanders up and down, surprised, aghast,
 And wondering at her own. How reason reels!
 O, what a miracle to man is man!
 Triumphantly distressed! What joy! What dread!
 Alternately transported and alarmed!
 What can preserve my life? or what destroy?
 An angel's arm can't snatch me from the grave;
 Legions of angels can't confine me there."
    
                                      --YOUNG.
 

UP to this time, along these pages, I have been
   Trying to present dispassionately some of
the very common yet very natural forces that
influence child-life. I have not been in search
of the vicious and the good; but of the good,
bad, and indifferent. I have purposed to make
record of some things which have never yet
given any moral account of themselves, and
   


with the feeling, all along, that just such things
as these will appear finally to have great 
significance in the character. I do not believe
that the smallest events in the life of the 
commonest child are simply facts and nothing
more; that they are simply bones without life.
Whatever touches a child, touches a life; and to
touch a life without influence, is an impossibility.
It were an interesting study at least to inquire
into the action and reaction of the non-
ethical forces. In the scale of all the influences
it is not utterly futile to ask where these little
things belong. There may be a large philosophy 
in a lot of small things.
   To trace the laws of the moral nature and
the hand of Providence through one's own
dawning intelligence, is a difficult introspective
work; but it is not egotism. I have spoken in
my own name and authority. I have used the
first person, singular number, the more freely 
because I knew that I was not to record remarkable,
but natural things. If anything profitable or
edifying shall come out of my childhood annals,
the world need never lack for literary material.
We know only the surface lives of one another.
The real history of the commonest human life
would be a remarkable thing. Mortals are not
possessed of the data for such a work. An auto-



biography, even, could not be a work of that
nature, because the human spirit has not sufficient
knowledge of the springs of its own activities.
Others do not know us as we know ourselves;
and we do not know ourselves as we are,
or as God knows us. It has not been my 
purpose thus far to designate a product, but to
point out streams of influence; and to do this
without the least intimation that I believe 
myself now only the composite shape into which I
have been squeezed by these streams of 
influence. An event may have influence without
having the mastery. The first condition might
be healthful, and the last destructive. The 
sovereignty is within. The human spirit must be
distinguished for evermore from all purely natural
things, for at bottom it is a great solitary. To
be a man is to be distinguished from nature; to
be an individual is to be distinguished from
one's fellows. The man who has been built into
the mass, like bricks into the building, stands
or falls with the mass. The man who has been
built alone can stand alone. These are the
Daniels and Nehemiahs. They are like Moses
and John the Baptist. They are the Alexanders
and the Caesars and the Hannibals. They are
the incarnations who have kept themselves from
absorption. The essential thing in this world is
 


personality. It is this that conquers and uses
nature, rules kingdoms, re-shapes the world's
policies, and drives back the moral death-damps
from the face of society. The personality 
represents vigor, and vigor means duration--it
means immortality.
   There may be something in phrenology, but
 the bumps do not make the man--the man
 makes the bumps; though it is confessed he
 must have a sensuous world against which to
 bump himself. The point is in the distinction.
 The potentials are within; and they are
 creative. The universe without is the exponent
 of the soul's highest powers. There is nothing
 little or small that can possibly happen a 
 deathless spirit. Any force capable of influencing a
 human being is a character-builder; and it does
 not go by without doing its work in one way or
 another. It is not relevant to ask a mortal to
 show that force in its final product. He might
 be able to do so; but more likely he is not able,
 because he is not God. The soul in eternity
 will be impressed with the fact that it has been
 this way. The world ground will be upon it
 forever. Whether outward and upward, or
 downward, this life will have made its mark.
 So then also with each small event.



   I rise up to-day to be satisfied with my 
childhood. I suffered somewhat from ignorance and
superstition, and from boorishness, and from
lack of opportunity as it is now understood; but
I had compensations in country air for my lungs,
and wholesome food, and I had time in solitude
to make the acquaintance of nature and life, and 
I had a home.
   It is said that nations have their spontaneous
age, which is followed by the reflective. The
same thing is true of the individual. I have
learned since my boyhood that the most serious
time in a boy's life is from the time he begins
to think that in a few years he will have to
take responsibility on his own shoulders. The
certainty that he must get beyond the smoke of
his father's chimney, and choose an individual
struggle with the world, is of more serious concern
with him than the particular work he will
undertake.
   The world is not very considerate of a young
man's feelings. When he comes to be about
grown, it begins rudely to put a man's boots on
his feet, a man's coat on his back, and a man's
hat on his head. It expects him to stop his
whimpering and undertake something. So, at
such a time, he begins to take measurements of



himself and of the world. He becomes a vexed
questioner of his own duty and aptitudes. He
is more or less alarmed in the presence of an
obligation to arrive at a life-long conclusion.
It will never do to stand still, and let the world
go by. This intellectual turbulence, however,
in a young man beginning his career, is rather
a favorable sign. It signifies a determination
not to live at random.
  It signifies an intention that the debits and
credits of life shall balance. It signifies a
knowledge that to begin life as a shirk is to
close it despised.
   I am not sure but the reflective age came to
me sooner than usual with boys. From my
fifteenth year father hardly exercised paternity
over me, as I understood it in childhood. It
was companionship. I had already come to
better educational qualifications; and it was a
part of my work to make all his business calculations
requiring figures. I became, therefore,
familiar with his business life and methods, and
naturally took great interest in them. In the
intervals of my school-work I was his constant
companion in the field and among the herds,
and in his buying and selling. I was the confidant
of all his plans for money-making. In
our work there were many hardships. We were



out in rain and storm, and we went winter and
summer. There were weary days and whole
nights of travel. There was great personal 
exposure in much of it, and, to me, these times
had their discouragements; but I was held up
and urged on by his unflagging interest and
zest in the business; and in the face of many a
hard job he would say to me: "This is a hard
job; but there is money in it, and the money is
for you, Rodney." So I learned that it was, as
in after years a rich patrimony of money came
to me. But the richest human thing I ever
coveted was the mantle of my father's royal
spirit.
   What I should undertake as a life-work was
naturally and wisely, I think, left an open 
question during the years of these annals. It is
time enough to climb a mountain after you
reach its base. I never lacked neighborly 
advice as to what I should make of myself. In
these gratuitous offerings it was always assumed
I could make of myself whatever I preferred.
The thing would come out to order, of course.
It had not in their cases, but it would in mine.
The folks who have traveled the journey of life
part way, have usually made up their minds
about things as they have passed along. They
have opinions. They think they have taken in



the situation. They pride themselves on the
reliability of their own experiences. Yet these
my counselors were not all in harmony with
each other.  I saw them along the way before
me; some light-hearted,-just getting started in
life; others farther along, and weighted, like a
ship to its guards, with the load; others had
gone to the summit, and were trembling down
the sunset side to the grave. In certain ways I
saw crowds going; in others so few that the road
would be lonesome, at least for lack of company.
I saw people in each other's way, jostling
and pushing each other out of the road and
down the precipices.. I saw others, who had
formed partnerships and had difficulties.   I
heard much bewailing over the lot of others,
who had taken the wrong road.  I saw people
in all stages of prosperity, and in all stages of
adversity.  From the lives ahead of me there
came a bedlam of sounds.
   And yet they were, as a rule, in the attitude
of regarding me as in my leading strings, the
upper end of which they must hold, to keep me
from bumping my precious nose. It is not
strange that young people have little relish for
taking advice. Some of these people who were
brimming over with advice, were possessed
with the wretched weakness of never being able



to make up their minds in their own cases.
They were not lacking in patient and profound
analysis of their own mental aptitudes. They
sought the advice of all their uncles and their
cousins and their aunts, and then they stood
around in the great open threshold of life, until
it was too late to take anybody's advice. They
recruited the ranks of the great army of the 
undecided. A few of them are living to this day.
What their business is I do not know, and I have
known them from childhood. They have not
pushed out to sea, neither have they anchored
to shore. They are idlers, with nothing to do.
Breathing, with them, is spontaneous. They expect
somehow to get provender, and they expect
animal nutrition to take care of itself; but they
do not expect to take any responsibility or to do
any work. They appear to be without an idea,
unless it is that they have come to the wrong
world, and they are trying to repudiate their
surroundings. They taught me at least what
my life ought not to be.
   I do not know a time since I was old enough
to think about it at all, that I lacked confidence
in my own future.
   Among the honorable pursuits, one's life here
is not taken under the calculation of nice
chances. There are reliable features and 



certain results to any manly life. So surely true
is this that to fret is to sin. Success or failure
is not settled by the toss of a copper. Success
is as natural as can be. This is not a chance
world. There is no such thing as accident.
Good luck is an evil angel with despairing
wings. Success in life is not measured by results
but by the things that bring about the results.
You stand on the bank of a great stream
and you see the foam on its surface, and the
leaves and driftwood in its eddies. These 
attract your eye, and may be the first things to
rivet your attention, and partly because they
are surface things; but they lead you directly to
see, and, above all, to feel the sublime and 
resistless volume of the current. Any human life
may have such volume in it as to be practically
resistless. The river will sooner lose its 
channel than an honest life its course. The river
will not lose its channel, because it makes its
channel. It will reach its destiny. So will the
soul purposed in high things reach its destiny
through all the changes of human circumstance.

    My greatest lessons were from life. I saw a
 purpose to win in the wolf-chase; I saw the
 glory of high aims in the eagle's flight; but the
 greatest inceptive lesson of profit of which I



can make any estimate, was my hunt with the
two boys in the bottom. The next day I saw
its spiritual parallels, and I have never been
able to get away from them. I had no religious
creed, but I believed in God and in the immortality
of the soul. I could see, therefore, that for
place or position or wealth, no man could afford
to be beaten on his spiritual side. For about
fifteen years, I am sure, I opened my eyes to see,
and then I began to shut my eyes and think.
I was an honest, if not an earnest seeker after
the truth--the real truth, as distinguished from
phenomena. I was in constant contact with the
common religious life of the community; but,
unlike the great majority, I could not accept all
that I saw and heard. It was a time for the
reign of the pulpit ignoramus. Now and then
a Simpson would come in reach, and sway the
people into charmed and rapt attention to the
concerns of the eternal world; but the common
pulpit pabulum was a conglomerate of narrowness
and bigotry. There was so much ignorance
in it, not only of the Scriptures, but of
the commonest facts of history and human
nature, that a large share of the common sense
of the community stood out in revolt against it.
Some of the poorest excuses for manhood were
the greatest mouthers of piety. There was



among us a numerous sect whose preachers
were great disputants. They were ready for a
debate day or night. So it was that the key to
the religious life of the country was the school-
house debate. Here the religious (giants!) pigmies
met and contended over the very shreds of
doctrine, as if heaven or hell hung on the issue.
The community would divide itself. Each side
would take unfair advantage of the other.
   And in the rising religious strife would be
manifested all the worst passions of bullyism.
Religion in the community became not a life;
not the showing of any likeness to the character
of the Nazarene, who went about doing
good. It was a system of disputations.
   I was not able to draw the line between the
reality and this, its travesty. So I became a
scoffer at religion as I saw it. I said, if that is
religion I do not want religion.

   There was also another side to the religious
forces about me which did not produce so great
disgust; but it brought greater perplexity. My
mother was a member of the sect called Methodists.
This fact, of course, had its predisposing
effects on me; but it did not explain the
things I heard and saw.
   Two words will define an early Methodist.



Faith is one, and zeal is the other. The faith
of these people ended in superstition, and their
zeal ended in furor. I could see how the intensity
of these two qualities became an explanation
of their swift accomplishments under the
most adverse circumstances; but I could not see
their relevance to the Christian life. These
people had no learning, but they certainly had
originality. They had a free-hand movement
and spontaneity of life which gave offense to
precedent-loving people. Their preachers were
usually men of energy and self-reliance, and
they were rich in religious enjoyment. Now
and then there was a brother more noisy than
edifying; but these wandering itinerants were, as
a rule, men who had directness of aim.
   They never shot at game over the hill. They
preached as if they believed the light was in
their candlestick, and they never allowed things
to go by default. But how rude and uncultured!
The only compensation I can see in it was, that,
on that account, they may have had some adaptation
to preach the gospel to plain people.
Certain it was that they were not waterlogged
with a fastidious taste about deviations from the
rules of good grammar or rhetoric. They were
more intent on the content of the message than
on language, or manner, or the graces of oratory.



   These Methodists were a furious set. They
were swayed by great gusts of revival, that, like
a cyclone, took up everything in its bosom. It
did not appear that such mercurial spirits could
hold together. It looked as if the material they
worked on would all be used up as soon as the
world should become civilized. They delighted
in a species of religious intoxication, many of
whose manifestations were intense and violent.
Bad effects, mentally and physically, were coming
from them. In some cases there was loss
of consciousness--mental blindness--mental
deafness--lasting for hours. There were not
only leapings and shoutings which were natural,
but out of taste as expressions of the joy of 
intense natures under the impulse of religious
fervor, but there were now and then violent
contortions ending in hysterics. There were
frequent cases of insensibility. All conscious
rationality was gone. Naturally, it is expected
that the human spirit will have some quickenings
of movement in the face of its destiny; but
without question, these revivals had damaging
features about them. Abnormal physical states
were sometimes produced by them. I saw these
things, and it put an end to my interest in the
meetings. They stood between me and the



truth. But the preachers gloried in these 
phenomena. They declared they were the power
of God; and now and then a man would use all
his art to bring them about. He would court
the greatest crudities of worship. What strange
notions about seeking religion they had! In a
sweeping revival, there was an overgrown young
man seeking religion. He was at first at the
altar on his knees, then down on his face on the
floor, then on his back. The contortions of his
arms and legs made it a little unsafe for the
workers around the altar. They pulled his
boots off each night, so that his kicks would not
injure the shins of the saints. One night he
was in a fearful way, but was not converted.
The pastor said to him at the close:
   "John, you must not be discouraged; you
pray on, and God will bless you."
   "O! I am not discouraged," said John; "I
thought I was about to get through there once
to-night, but I gave out."
   Some of the people would meet angels on the
way home; some would have special revelations
from heaven; others would recite marvelous mental
visions, which they believed to be from God.
   An aged colored woman attended the meetings
in a certain place, and was convicted of



sin. She was unlearned, but of strong 
propensities both physical and mental. She was
wrought upon, and became an earnest seeker.
She conceived the idea that she was to be 
converted in a boat on the water. The itinerant,
in his rounds from house to house, in the 
interim of the public services, called to see her, and
found her sitting in a wash-tub praying 
earnestly. The preacher said:
   "Dinah, I do not believe it is necessary for
you to punish your body that way. That will
do no good."
   "O, Brudder, I's gwine to be converted in dis
here way," said the colored woman.
   The preacher left her mourning. Next
morning she came to the meeting, and told the
following experience:
   "My brederin, I tells you how it was. I
prayed way into de night, most nigh to de
mo'nin. By an by de water begin to come up
in dat room! Dat tub begin to go out at one
end, and den it begin to go out at tudder! It
float roun in dat room! De moon shine down
in dat water! After a long time mo', a little
white dove cum fru de winder, an lit on de bow
ob dat boat, and sed, Peace to di soul! An den
I knowed I was converted."



   I stumbled over things like this. That was
 an hallucination, evidently. I could see no
 truth anywhere near such things. My mother
 did not know about these matters, and she
 would only say that was the human side; and
 then she would hold me more than she knew
 by her calm and and holy life.
   This colored woman was a truly religious
woman ever afterwards. This was the perplexing
thing about it. These phenomena would
not please me by showing wholly bad results.
The profane would become reverent; the 
licentious would become pure; drunkards would 
become sober; and many were evidently lifted
into better lives.
   For four years I stood confused in the face of
these incongruities. In a morning meeting I
heard my mother say that she knew that the
peace of God was possible for the human heart,
that she had daily communion with the great
Father, and was a very happy woman. That I
believed. I was glad I could believe something.
I had then three articles to my creed. The
being of God, the immortality of the soul, and
the reality of my mother's faith.
   Might it not be that these people were honest
in that they were ignorant of many of the complex



laws influencing mind and body, and were
putting a wrong interpretation simply on these
phenomena, which were natural and psychological,
and not at all miraculous? I had a little
experience one morning that gave me a clue to
the religious trance. It was before breakfast,
and I was not well; but, whittling a stick, I cut
my finger. A slight matter indeed; but as I was
holding my own hand for the bandage, I sud-
denly became sick and lost consciousness. I
had fainted; after a boast of years that such a
thing could not come to me. The particular
thing about the occurrence was the peculiar 
sensations and intellectual quickenings I had on
coming to consciousness. The clearest and
sweetest and most remarkable intellectual 
visions of a life-time centered in that moment. I
could wish for their return, did I not know they
were produced under abnormal physical 
conditions. This mental experience was suggestive
of meaning to me sometime afterwards, when I
heard an honest but mistaken trance revivalist
say: "If the Lord ever takes you into a trance
once, you will pray to be taken again."
   Some one has defined nightmare to be a state
in which the nerves of motion are sound asleep,
and the thought-centers are fully awake. 



Somnambulism is almost the opposite. It is a state
in which the nerves of motion are awake, and
the thought-centers are asleep. A trance has
been defined as a state in which some 
departments of the mental stimuli are dormant and
asleep, while others are awake and active.
Those in the trance state are likely to be awake
along the line of the prevailing disposition. If
the trend be religious, and the subject be 
ignorant of the reflx influence of the mental and
physical powers, it then takes but a small vein
of the superstitious to lead the subject honestly
to the conclusion that God has been making a
special and most favored communication.
   It came to pass that these psychic and mural
forces which are of such interest and perplexity
to my religious thinking, began to disassociate
themselves from the real questions at issue. At
the last, and truest and best of all, I became
aware of my personal accountability to God, in
the sense that I saw and felt my sinfulness;
and I sought and found the riches of an 
unmeasured peace.

   One more thing I will put down here. After
five years of heraldry and courtship, I won the
heart of the most brilliant and beautiful country-



girl in four counties. I married her. It was
the smartest thing I ever did. We have gone
down the years together, and there has been
sunshine--sunshine.

THE END


      
        






   
   

   

WELL TOLD TALES

A SERIES OF EXCELLENT STORIES THAT FULLY JUS-
TIFY THE TITLE THAT IS GIVEN TO THEM. THEY
HAVE BEEN CHOSEN WITH A VIEW TO MEETING THE
POPULAR DEMAND FOR GOOD FICTION AT A MOD-
ERATE PRICE. THEY ARE WELL PRINTED ON GOOD
PAPER, AND TASTEFULLY AND DURABLY BOUND IN
CLOTH, WITH HANDSOME COVER DESIGN.

SIZE, 5 1/4 x 7 3/4 x 1 1/8 INCHES. Price per volume, net, 50 cts.
                           POSTAGE, 1O CTS.

      

         ACROSS HER PATH,By Annie S. Swan
         ALDERCYDE, By Annie S. Swan
         THE AYRES OF STUDLEIGH,By Annie S. Swan
         BARBARA LEYBOURNE,By Sarah Selina Hamer
         BRIER AND PALM,By Annie S. Swan
         CAMERTON SLOPE,By R. F. Bishop
         CARLOWRIE, By Annie S. Swan
         THE COLONEL'S CHARGE, By Carlisle B. Holding
         DORIS CHEYNE,By Annie S. Swan
         THE GATES OF EDEN, By Annie S. Swan
         HER BEN,By Carlisle B. Holding
         HILDEBRAND AND CICILY,By M. A. Paul
         IN HIS OWN WAY,By Carlisle B. Holding
         THE LEAST OF THESE,By L. T. Meade
         LIFE ON A BACKWOODS FARM, By Wm. Riley Halstead
         THE LITTLE CORPORAL,By Carlisle B. Holding
         MAITLAND OF LAURISTON,By Annie S. Swan
         NORMAN REID, M. A.,By Jessie Patrick Findlay
         AN ODD FELLOW, By Carlisle B. Holding
         ROCKTON,By Kel Snow
         ST. VEDA'S,By Annie S. Swan
         SHEILA,By Annie S. Swan
         THE UNEQUAL FOUR,By Samuel W. Odell
         A VEXED INHERITANCE,By Annie S. Swan
         THE YOUNG ARTISTS,By Mary E. Ireland




CINCINNATI: JENNINGS & PYE
NEW YORK: EATON & MAINS


        
     
        
    
    
