
   ----CITATION---- 
        Doremus, Jennie Brown.. Jennette Browning. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1824
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    


      


      

      


      
      
      	Frontispiece
        
          
            Jennie Brown Doremus

          
        


      
      

      
        
          JENNETTE BROWNING, OR A HOOSIER GIRL'S VICTORY,
           A TRUE HISTORY OF A REMARKABLE LIFE,
        
         BY JENNIE BROWN DOREMUS, KOKOMO, INDIANA.

        


        PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHORPRINTED AND STEREOTYPED BYJONES &
            KROEGER,
          WINONA, MINN.
        
      

      
      
      	Verso
        COPYRIGHT,1889, By JENNIE
          BROWN DOREMUS,
          KOKOMO, INDIANA.

      


      
      
        PREFACE.

        In presenting to the reader the history of the life and trials of Jennette Browning there
          are many important things to be considered First--To what extent,
          consistent with her present interest, and the interests of her friends, can we give her
          story plainly and truthfully. Second--In writing the history of this
          interesting life we have aimed to present it in such a manner that the many lessons we
          wish to teach may be impressed upon the reader. The book, though clothed in fiction, is
          founded upon truth, and no heart trial of our heroine has been overdrawn. Like the story
          of Charlotte Temple, we give it to the world with its pathetic truths, rounded up by
          fiction, that persons and friends of the characters herewith connected, may neither be
          injured nor humiliated; that every parent may be touched by the simple story; that lessons
          of great importance may be gleaned therefrom; and that they may live long in the hearts of
          the American people, when they realize it is from one who has suffered for her country,
          for her loyalty to her fellow men, and her honor. It is a simple Hoosier story, given in
          language that the youngest child may comprehend; and all can feel that they have sat down
          to listen to a strangely touching story of the war, and of real life at that interesting
          period of our country's history, from one who has seen it in all its phases. We trust, at
          least, our story may bring sunshine to the life of some one who, perhaps may be ready to
          yield to despondency, but who, after reading Jennette Browning, will say, "I have no cause
          for complaint."

        THE AUTHOR.

      
      



      
      

        CONTENTS.
        

        
                      
 
          PAGE.    
                        CHAPTER I.              
                          THE CHILDHOOD,5
                        CHAPTER II.
                          HAYWARD'S ATTENTIONS TO THE "CHILD WOMAN,"21
                        CHAPTER III.
                          LOVER AND BROTHER GO TO WAR,31
                        CHAPTER IV.
                          THE HEART TRIAL OR THE GREAT SACRIFICE,46
                        CHAPTER V.
                          JENNETTE'S CONVALESCENCE AND HER MESSAGE TO CHARLIE,61
                        CHAPTER VI.
                          THE SISTER'S SECRET,73
                        CHAPTER VII.
                          JENNETTE'S VISIT AND COMBAT WITH MORGAN,84
                        CHAPTER VIII.
                          THE GREAT SORROW AND THE UNFORTUNATE DRIVE,97
                        CHAPTER IX.
                          JENNETTE'S FATHER DIES AND HER FATE IS SEALED,116
                        CHAPTER X.
                          CHARLIE HAYWARD RETURNS FROM THE WAR TO LEARN HIS FATE,131
     
                                                 










          PAGE.
               CHAPTER XI.
                 JENNETTE GOES TO LIVE WITH HER UNCLE,155
               CHAPTER XII.
                 CHARLIE HAYWARD IN THE FAR WEST,166
               CHAPTER XIII.
                 JENNETTE'S SORROW AND MRS. ALLEN'S SECRET,172
               CHAPTER XIV.
                 THE BABE AND THE RETURN HOME,186
               CHAPTER XV.
                 THE PROPOSAL, THE WARNING DREAM AND THE DESERTION,202
               CHAPTER XVI.
                 CHARLIE TELLS THE STORY OF HIS EARLY LOVE,216
               CHAPTER XVII.
                 JENNETTE'S ROMANCE,233
               CHAPTER XVIII.
                 RESCUED AFTER TWO YEARS,245
               CHAPTER XIX.
                 THE REJECTED LOVER-SCANDAL AFLOAT,254

               CHAPTER XX.
                 LEAVING HOME AND MEETING THE GIPSY AGAIN,264

               CHAPTER XXI.
                 THE DEATH OF JENNETTE'S UNCLE,276

               CHAPTER XXII.
                 THE KIDNAPPING AND FRUITLESS SEARCH,291

               CHAPTER XXIII.
                 CHARLIE HAYWARD FINDS A WIFE,305

               CHAPTER XXIV.
                 THE DAWNING OF BETTER DAYS,313
               CHAPTER XXV.
                 OTHO AND FERN ARE UNITED IN MARRIAGE,325





          PAGE.
               CHAPTER XXVI.
                 JENNETTE PURSUING COOPER IN SEARCH OF GUT,337
               CHAPTER XXVII.
                 THE DOUBLE SURPRISE,353
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
                 GUY's RESCUE,366
               CHAPTER XXIX.
                 JENNETTE IN COOPER'S CLUTCHES,377
               CHAPTER XXX.
                 BLACKBURN REJECTED-JENNETTE RETURNS TO HER FRIENDS,389
               CHAPTER XXXI.
                 DR. HAYWARD IS STRICKEN WITH A SEVERE ILLNESS,396
               CHAPTER XXXII.
                 GOING WEST AND TEACHING SCHOOL,404
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
                 FOUND AT LAST,423
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
                 THE SURPRISE AND GREAT HAPPINESS,436
               CHAPTER XXXV.
                 DR. AND MRS. HAYWARD IN THEIR NEW HOME,454

 
          
         
 

      
      


      

    

    



      

      

      	JENNETTE BROWNING

        

          
            THE RESCUE
          






          






          CHAPTER I. THE CHILDHOOD.

          
            
              Whatever adult fate we earn,
              Whate'er the censure or the praise;
              Still will the fond heart sometimes turn
              Back to those careless, happy days.
            
          

          Nestled away among leafy trees and thick-set vines, upon one of the old river hills of
            the beautiful Ohio, was a neat, white cottage, the birthplace of Jennette Browning, the
            heroine of my story. She was born Nov. 25, 1844, and was not, as story writers would
            have it, the most beautiful of her sex. But, as we are dealing with facts, we must give
            you a true description of her as she swings herself down from the piazza by honey-
            suckle vines that hang in luxuriant masses around the door.


          She was just twelve years of age, with hair like fine spun gold, straight as the thread
            old Joe Phelps was weaving into a web that promised a rich return, and of which Jennette
            was to share liberally; and her eyes were as blue as the heavens above her on that clear
            June morning. She was very small for her age, trimly built, with a tongue like a parrot
            or mocking bird. To say she was not self-willed and impulsive, would not be  the truth; yet, to say she was not good-natured and
            kind-hearted to the least and last, would not be doing her justice; for surely there
            never stood on the banks of the old Ohio a more loving and generous being than our
            little heroine. She was not an heiress, so far as money goes, but she inherited the true
            and noble blood of the fine old English stock that came over in the Mayflower. Although
            many generations had passed since the landing of the Pilgrim fathers, yet her people had
            the same republican spirit, love of liberty and the Bible--and it seems that little
            Jennette came into full possession of all their noble traits. She inherited all their
            love for the word of God, and at this early age had made it a study and was ever ready
            with some passage of scripture for one who was given to doubling, or for one desponding,
            she had at her command some cheering promise gleaned from its sacred pages.
          So her life, up to the morning we introduce her to our readers, had all been sunshine.
            She sang and danced and played by the river-side with a little friend whom we will
            introduce as Adolphus Farrar. And this morning as she stands in the June sunshine while
            it plays and toys with her golden hair, she is preparing for a fishing excursion in a
            little boat, with her friend; and as she saw him coming over the meadow "she could not
            wait," as her mother declared, "to come down stairs like a lady," but like the tomboy
            she was, climbed right down the trellised vines, and with bonnet under her arm and
            fishing rod in hand, awaited his coming


          






          She was the youngest of the family and one of three girls. Her eldest sister, eight
            years her senior, was a brave, worthy young lady whom everyone loved and admired; but
            Ferrell, next to her, and five years her senior, was proud, selfish and overbearing; she
            was quickwitted and prided herself on being the belle of the neighborhood and the
            handsomest girl in the country.
          Jennette always was to blame for whatever happened. She was censured for all that went
            wrong about the house--for gates left open and young trees spoiled from her having
            climbed them, and for general romping. But she had become used to it, and when she knew
            she was at fault, she took all the scolding and said never a word; but perfectly
            self-willed, she was never moved by word or look, if positive she was in the right.
          But above all she held dear, was a good and noble brother, whom the reader will know as
            Jerry Browning. He was sixteen years her senior, and was all in all to her. He had cared
            for, loved and petted her from the little crib bed where he was wont to lie down by her
            and sing the lullaby song.
          The reader will please pardon the digression, for we have wandered from our subject and
            left Jennette going fishing with Adolph.
          "Hello, Dolph, have you bait and all ready?"
          "Yes, come on, Jen, we must get to the river before the sun gets too high, or we will
            be too late for bass!"
          " Well, then, for a sucker!" said she.




          

          "Jennette," said her mother, "you must not be so hoidenish!"
          "Oh!" said Ferrell, "she is dreadful! Mother, I would keep that girl at home until she
            learned how to talk and act, if I were you."
          "Don't fret, sister mine!" laughed Jennette, "Uncle Joe says I'm a real daisy, and
            worth a dozen aristocratic girls like you!"
          "How's that?" inquired her father, "Who said you were a daisy?"
          "Why, Uncle Joe, and I reckon he knows."
          "Ha, ha," laughed Mr. Browning, "you and Joe are one in interest now, until that web is
            out of the loom. But where is my wild gazelle going to run to now?"-- This was the name
            by which he always called her when playfully speaking.
          "Well!" exclaimed Jennette, "did I ever see such a time, as I am having, to get off to
            the river this morning! Dolph, father has come, to read me a lecture I presume, and who
            knows when we shall be able to reach that fishing boat!"
          "Oh, a fishing excursion is it," said Mr. Browning. Well, if you don't get upset in
            that boat I'll miss my guess!"
          "Father," chimed in Ferrell, "that girl will ruin us all with her Hoosier ways; and I
            would make her go to her room and read etiquette till dinner time, if I were you. She
            just leaves everything in disorder wherever she goes, and romps and climbs, and visits
            old weaver Joe! and what could be more ridiculous?" 

          

          But Jennette was off like a gazelle--as her father declared --leaving Ferrell's words
            to die on the air. As she ran, she looked back with a roguish smile, and said, "Ferrell,
            fish will relish better for dinner than etiquette!"
          Her father said, "Never mind, Miss Ferrell, she needs plenty of exercise to develope
            that little body of hers; and if she is a little Hoosier, she is a little blessing! and
            what would home be without her? she is always doing something; leaving her mark, I know,
            but she means no harm by it, and she has a wise little head and a good, kind heart, and
            you do wrong to speak so unkindly to her. She is very sensitive and nervous, and you
            would do well to take heed to my words."
          By this time the children had reached the boat, when Jennette stopped suddenly and
            said, "Dolph, I am going to have my fortune told, to-day."
          "Your fortune told to-day! Why, Jen, I thought we were going a fishing!"
          "Well, we are; but, Dolph, I'll tell you something if you'll never, never tell!"
          "Well, Jennette, I promise." He always said Jennette, when he wanted her to understand
            he meant to be honest and keep his word with her.
          "Dolph, you know we sometimes fish at the foot of the blue ridge?"
          "Yes!"
          "Well, I know where there is an old woman who lives away up the gorge between the hills
            there, that  tells fortunes. Let's get into the boat and
            drift down there, and if you will go with me we will find out what our future lives are
            to be made up of. I know just where to find her; she lives all alone, and keeps nothing
            about her but a parrot and a deck of cards, and with these she will tell our
            fortunes."
          "Pshaw, Jen, I know your fortune, and you know mine!"
          "Yes you do. "I'll guess you do not know whether I'm going to marry a soldier or a
            knight!"
          "No, you are not to marry either of them! but a boy that goes fishing with you. Now,
            that is flat-footed, and truth, too; so let's not seek the old
            woman."
          Jennette blushed after the manner of little girls, and said, "For shame, Dolph, you are
            joking now! I do not mean to do any such thing; I mean to marry a
            great man, or none at all!"
           "A man who can catch great fish, you mean, Jen?"
          "No sir," she said, with a scornful turn of the lip, "I never will marry a man who can
            fish! Father says a man that can catch fish is of no account."
          "Oh." said good-natured Dolph, "I reckon I'm not the lucky chap, then; for no boy on
            the Ohio can catch larger fish than I can, nor more of them!"
          "Well, what do you say, Dolph; will you go to the gorge with me?"
          "Why, yes; if it don't take too long to get your fortune told!"
          So saying they jumped into the boat, which Dolph  had
            fastened to a tree at the river's brink, and away they went down the calm, blue waters.
            Jennette, singing, in girlish glee, snatches of songs, then dipping her oar into the
            water's smooth surface, said. "Dolph, did you ever think that we are all sailors?"
          "Why no, Jen! I never had any hankern after a sailor's life; much less believing myself
            to be one in reality!" 
          "Oh, well, you don't understand me, Dolph! I mean that life, to me, is like a river,
            flowing on to the great ocean of eternity, and we are sailors drifting on its tide, at
            the mercy of the winds."
          "Why, Jen, you are growing eloquent! I never study so much about things as you do. You
            must not expect boys fourteen years old to think of anything but fishing and hunting,
            through vacation, and having a good time --as we are to-day."
          "No," said Jennette, looking very womanly, "I never do expect much of boys! Do you know
            that when I grow up to be a woman, I mean to be a woman's rights woman, a politician and
            a preacher, too!"
          "Why, Jen, you know preachers do not meddle with politics!"
          "Yes they do, if they are real good ones! If they love their God, they will love their
            country. For this glorious union of States is one of the grandest governments known
            under the heavens. It speaks freedom to all men--save the poor black men and women; and,
            Dolph, I believe God in his own time will lead them out of 
            bondage, just as he did the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt"
          "Well, I'm not much on Bible, but I know it says, "Servants obey your masters," and, as
            all my relatives live in the South, and own colored people, I believe it to be a good
            institution. There are cousins George and Al, that have their waiters, and I think it
            awfully nice to have a man get out my horse and buggy, clean them up
            nicely, and drive up to my door--and all I have to do is to get in and give orders where
            I want to be driven, and just be at liberty to command them as I please."
          "Adolphus Farrar! you selfish creature! you are just like old Pharaoh! and I'd never, never marry a man that holds to any such
            principles."
          "Oh come, come, Jen! don't get furious nor quote any more scripture to me now, for here
            we are at the gorge, and if you really want to know whom you are to marry, we had better
            anchor here and be after hunting the witch. But what if she should tell you some
            terrible fate awaited you; do you think you would be happier for knowing it?"
          "Yes, let it be good or bad, I want to know the worst, that I may provide for it."
          "You can not arrest fate, Jen. If you are to marry a statesman or a southern
            slaveholder, its all the same --you'll do it."
          "All right, sir, about me marrying a Southern slaveholder. I'll strangle such a fate as
            that and bury it too deep for resurrection."


          

          "Well, Jen, so let it be; but come on, now, I will help you over this marsh up to the
            hillside."
          "Never mind, sir, a boy who would have a poor colored man drive his horse for him, and
            take half the pleasure out of the ride by so doing, would be too lazy, should I prove
            helpless, to get me out of the mire. So you'll see how one who depends on self can skip
            right over such difficulties as this;" and suiting the action to the word, she sprang
            past him and was half way up the hillside before he had recovered from his astonishment
            at her agility.
          "Well, Jen, you know the whereabouts of the old crank, so you may lead the way." 
          "Dolph, I fancy, should war be declared and you had to face the enemy or go on a scout,
            you would as soon have me go before then, as now."
          "Well, think as you please, Jen; but you know I could send my darkey in my place, while
            the anti-slavery man must meet the enemy on his own ground."
          "Well, Dolph, a man that could not fill my place in Congress, could not fill it in war!
            But here we are at the hut of old Mrs. Spears; we will see if you are ever to own any
            flesh and blood in human shape, to drive around at your will."
          "Good morning, Aunty Spears," said Jennette, "I have brought this boy, and I want you
            to tell him what his fate shall be."
          "I should think I had brought her, rather;" said Dolph, as I know who used the oars as
            we came down the river."


          

          "We needed no oars," said Jennette, "we drifted! any one can drift, it's so easy to drift."
          "Yes, yes," said old Aunty Spears, "it is indeed easy to drift, but
            hard to pull against the stream!" And fixing her black bead-like eyes on the two
            children before her, she muttered something about dark days, and high waters to be
            crossed by such a frail little creature, as the little girl was.
           "Well, Aunty, we want you to tell this young girl's fortune."
          "Yes, and this young boy's fortune too," said Jennette.
          "I have not come for that purpose; I came only to fish!"
          "Well, I want to fish after all this lady can tell me about my
            future," replied she.
          "Well, well, child, some duties are hard to perform!" --and taking
            her cards out of an old greasy chest, she began running them through her fingers, and
            this is what she said:
          "Little girl, you are brave as well as noble, but your life will be as checkered as my
            old apron here."
          "What do you mean, Aunty? "
          "Why, child, I mean that you will pass through many, many trials! You
            will be twice foiled in the dearest object you will ever set heart on. Your life will be
            a great romance,--yet all too much a reality. But, little girl, whenever you get into
            trouble others will get you there, and when it comes, if I can help you, remember,  come to me. Your life is soon to be in
            peril; and one whom you will afterwards learn never to forget will rescue you."
          How little Jennette comprehended the great import of her words, and how much she
            realized them in after years, we shall see.
          Turning to Adolphus, she said: "Sir, you are away below this child in blood and
            principle, and of course blood makes principle. You are a lazy boy, and fond of being
            waited on; but you shall never enjoy the luxury of servants, and a blackened and wasted
            life shall be your fate!"
          "Well!" said he, somewhat chagrined at her words, after the conversation he and
            Jennette had had.
          Little Jennette's blue eyes sparkled, and she said, "Well, Dolph, while I'm having my
            trouble, you will not be riding around with servants waiting on you!"
          "Well, no, not according to Aunty Spears's prophecy; but as you are intending to
            strangle certain fates, I think I'll throttle this one!"
          So, in childish glee they left the hut not much wiser than before; for, somehow, they
            could not understand the nature of her prophecy,--for the time had not yet come.
          "Now, Jennette," said Dolph, "we have wasted too much time already, and we must be
            hurrying on to the fishing place; for I feel that we have spent a very foolish half
            hour, with an old fool who knows nothing of the future!"


          


          "Ho, ho, Dolph, don't get angry because she makes you her own servant."
          "No! not that, Jen, but she slandered the blood of my parents; says I am not as good
            blood as yourself. Did not our parents both come from old Virginia?-- yours from the
            Puritan stock, mine from the Berkeleys! Who dare say they were not
            gentlemen, and gentlemen that loved leisure, and believed that they should have black
            men, who were greatly their inferiors in race and intellect, to wait upon them? And, as
            blood will tell, I stick to the old landmarks."
          "Dolphus Farrer! Dolphus Farrer! I say, do you intend me to believe that God is a
            respecter of persons, when he firmly declares he is not? Do you mean to tell me that
            buying and selling black men and women make men gentlemen? You might as well try to turn
            the waters of this river to flow the other way, as to try to bend my mind and heart to
            that belief. No!" cried she, as she paused upon a jutting crag that overhung the waters
            "I hope when I am old and ready to die, I may have a better record to reflect upon than
            that! I would that my life might be pure, as the waters beneath my feet, and that the
            image of Christ might reflect through my life as clearly as the water reflects back my
            image here! And if it should, I must and will not forget mercy. The mercy God shows to
            me, I must show to his creatures--my fellow-men."
          While she was talking, Adolphus, though young as he was, realized in his heart that she
            was a child woman,  and "if not handsome, she is good, and
            the old woman has well said she is better than I am."
          "Well, Jennette, let me put the bait on your hook, and we will not debate this question
            further this morning."
          While Jennette agreed, her heart beat wildly, for she was fully aroused at the
            injustice of the boy who had been her playmate from the cradle, and whom she loved as a
            brother.
          As they fished, and chatted away on different subjects, they began to realize that it
            was almost noon, and they were very hungry. So, gathering up their fish-- which were not
            a few--they made for the boat, preparatory to returning up the river, and home. They
            both plied their oars dexterously now, for it was pulling against the stream, and no
            longer drifting. They were making their way nicely, when their ears caught the sound of
            clattering hoofs and flying wheels. On they came, as if pursued by demons, and the
            children were now just where the bank was low and the road made a bend and came very
            close to the brink of the river; and while they were looking to see what could be the
            matter, a two-horse carriage, with large, fiery horses, maddened with fright, came round
            the bend like lightning, and quick as thought they left the road and plunged into the
            water. The children were near the shore in shallow water and the horses made their way
            directly toward them. They avoided a collision, but somehow their boat was struck so as
            to capsize the frail craft and throw them both into the river. 

          

          Adolphus, being the strongest and used to swimming, soon gained his presence of mind
            and boldly struck out for the shore, leaving poor little Jennette to fight the mighty
            current alone.
          But not far behind the carriage was a young gentleman, who had seen the fright of the
            horses, and saw them make their plunge into the river, and he hurried to their rescue,
            if possible. But on discovering the children, he took no further notice of the horses,
            only that they were floating off in a tangled mass, half drowning--but his whole thought
            was how to save the little golden-haired girl he saw coming up for the last time. He
            knew not a moment was to be lost; so, throwing off his coat and hat, he sprang into the
            water and caught her long, floating hair as it was going down, and swam to the shore
            with what he supposed to be her lifeless body. He wrapped her in his coat and held her
            head downward; --while Adolphus went into paroxysms of grief. He had known Jennette
            Browning as a sister, playmate and friend, and had it been his own flesh and blood he
            could not have cared more.
          Mr. Hayward--for this was he who had so heroically saved Jennette--told Dolph to run
            over the hill to a farmhouse there, and tell the lady of the house to come quickly with
            some warm remedy.
          Poor, little, half-drowned Dolph ran as best he could, and between sobs and half
            uttered sentences the lady understood that some one was drowned.
          She caught up a flask of whiskey that stood on the 
            mantlepiece, and made her way as quickly as possible to the river side--to find little
            Jennette half aroused to consciousness.
          The young man gave her a brief description of what had happened, while they put a few
            drops of the liquid into the mouth of the poor little girl and rubbed her limbs well
            with the same. Soon she was able to sit up and the first thing she asked for was
            Dolph.
           "Here I am Jennette! what do you want?"
          "Why, I want you to take me home! How did you get me out of the water?" At this Dolph
            blushed. He realized for the first time that he had not acted very gallantly.
          But Mr. Hayward, seeing his embarrassment, came to his relief, and said, "Why, little
            fairy, he came very near being drowned himself ! and I got you out."
          "Oh! did you? well you are a dear, brave fellow, and I'll always love you, and brother
            Jerry will, too."
          " Well," said young Hayward,."for the love of such a little girl as you, I could dare
            to brave danger and feel well paid for it;" and he pinched her pale cheek while he said,
            "I guess your brother would not love me very much if I did not bring you home--where do
            you live? "
          "Why, don't you know where the house they call the bird's nest is?"
          "Well, yes, I guess I do ! do you live there?"
          "Yes, sir, and oh, I will be so glad to have you go with us; for Dolph is not strong
            enough to row us both, and I don't feel much like helping him."


          

          "No, I'll see you safe home this time, little Miss, and the next time you had better
            not go fishing." Then, securing the capsized boat, he took the children in and landed
            them at the foot of the hill on which Mr. Browning lived. Taking Jennette in his arms he
            carried her home, while Dolph made his way over the meadow in the direction of his home,
            with wet clothing and no fish, for they had all been lost in the capsizing of the
            boat.
          Jennette was welcomed in many ways. Big-hearted brother Jerry took her and pitied her
            most of all, while her parents gave Mr. Hayward a hearty greeting, and assured him of
            their life-long gratitude, for thus saving the life of their dear little girl. But how
            sister Ferrell did pronounce all kinds of maledictions upon her for going fishing and
            acting the real Hoosier, with a trifling boy like Dolph Farrer.
          Jennette dressed herself in a white dress with blue ribbons, and was fully restored,
            only a little paler than usual, after all.
          Mr. Hayward was struck with the extraordinary manner of the child, --"child-woman! "
            --he kept repeating to himself--"I wish she was five or six years older, by zounds, I
            do, then it would be a piece of real romance.'
        


        






        
          CHAPTER II. HAYWARD'S ATTENTIONS TO THE "CHILD WOMAN."

          
            
              The gayest hours trip lightly by,
              And leave the faintest trace;
              But the deep, deep track that sorrow wears,
              Time never can efface.
            
          

          How sweet it is to take up memory's chain, and trace it back, link by link, to
            childhood's door--where life was all unclouded, and peace, unalloyed, flowed like a
            river. We sometimes feel that we can almost hear the birds singing and see the flowers
            blooming around that dear old home, where, like the undisturbed birdlings, we still
            hovered in the parents' nest. But alas! when we take a full view of the past, we often
            stop and shudder at some terrible recollection of more mature years.
          It was in the summer of 1856, just when a new campaign was pending, the year of the
            election of James Buchanan to the presidency, that the question of slavery was greatly
            agitated; and the reader will remember that the growing fortunes of the North had
            awakened great jealousy in the South--the whole opposition having its root in that
            sectional institution, slavery.
          About this time Harriet Beecher Stowe's book,  "Uncle
            Tom's Cabin," was making its way into almost every Northern home; being read and
            digested, it had its peculiar awakening powers in the hearts and minds of the good,
            loyal citizens of all the Northern States.

          It was under these influences and this state of affairs that we find Jennette Browning
            just merging into womanhood. She was known far and near as the brightest, aptest girl in
            the country. Her impulsive nature caused her, through love of truth and right, to have
            many warm friends; yet, some bitter enemies. She read and re-read "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"
            and everywhere expressed her admiration for it. She said she intended, some day, to go
            South and make public speeches in favor of the abolishment of slavery. Her father
            laughed at her, but inwardly admired the spirit and enthusiasm she manifested on the
            all-important question--he himself being in perfect unison with her. Yet, he would tell
            her, that a little Miss like herself should be seen, not heard, and that he believed
            God, in his own good time, would deliver the millions whose groanings had reached the
            throne; and that even now --he would tell her--he believed the kind and loving hand of
            the Father was beginning to reach down, and ere long the shackels would fall off and the
            glad news would go forth "that a free Nation had been born."
          The campaign of '56 had set in in real earnest, politics running very high. Horse
            companies were formed and Hoosier girls would ride fifteen and twenty miles in a day, to
            celebrate and help carry out the martial  spirit that was
            pervading every breast, while great wagons were gotten up, with long beds, that would
            carry thirty-two little girls in uniform, representing the number of States then in the
            Union.
          Jennette was always to be found among the Republican girls, with her blue ribbons,
            making as much display of her delicate little form as possible. For she felt as though
            her presence helped to carry out the idea of freedom and human rights. It was in those
            days she used to perch herself on the loom bench beside old Joe Phelps, and tell him all
            she had seen and heard at the grand rally.
          Old Joe was the weaver of all the home made clothing worn by the farmers of that
            community in those days--which was no small amount--therefore he was kept busy the year
            around; in summer he wove linen, in winter jeans and flannels, and never took time to go
            anywhere himself, but was content to listen to Jennette's glowing descriptions of the
            wonderful sights she had seen and the things she had heard. He never tired of listening
            to the wee tattler, as he called her, and said if ever there was a girl inspired it was
            Jennette. She pitied him for his lonely life, and never wearied him with her talk; and
            many were the new dresses and aprons she received from the good old man that loved her
            as his own child. "For, sure," said he "if all the world would turn against the blessed
            lamb, never would I!"
          Amidst the political contest Jennette and Adolphus  became
            very much estranged--our readers have already learned his political views. The parents
            being at needle's point on the subject, the children had imbibed the same spirit, and as
            her brother was a politician, and laboring hard to defeat the Democratic party, it set
            up a barrier between the Farrers and Brownings that nothing could pull down; and only at
            school did Jennette and Dolph meet on friendly terms. The reader knows the result of
            that election. Buchanan was elected, and Fremont defeated, and a Democratic
            administration was carried on.
          After young Hayward had brought Jennette home, as related in our last chapter, he went
            west, and remained there until the winter of '57 when he returned to Indiana. He soon
            called on the family of Mr. Browning, with a secret desire to see the little fairy girl
            he had rescued from the jaws of death. He found her grown much taller, with a shy
            reservedness she had not shown some months before.
          Charlie Hayward was a poor young man, having no fortune but good health and ambition.
            His father had died when he was quite young, leaving him and an older brother to care
            for the widowed mother, until her recent death, which left him alone in the world, with
            no one to care for him except the elder brother, who lived near Mr. Browning, and had
            taught the country school each winter for five or six years--the only school Jennette
            had ever attended in all her school days. Charlie had learned from his brother John,
            what a bright and active mind she had, and how much she prized truth and  honor. This, with the form and face of the little girl
            always before him, urged him to seek the good will of the parents, whom he knew to be
            well bred and above the average of country farmers.
          On learning Mr. Browning's political views, Mr. Hayward concluded he must be very
            discreet, (his politics being decidedly Democratic,) and, as Jennette was yet too young
            to pay his addresses to, he would be obliged to wait a few years; so he concluded to
            improve every opportunity to show some favor toward the family, and, if possible, creep
            into their hearts and confidence, before they should come to know his politics. "Then,"
            he said, "I'll not be contentious; I will let the old gentleman have his way, so he lets
            me have a chance to win the love of his daughter."
          Charlie Hayward always won his way into all hearts, for he was a happy, congenial
            spirit, with eyes as black as night, and hair like the raven's wing--which hung in a
            mass of curls around a high, full forehead and well developed head--with complexion as
            fair as a lady's. As the winter grew into short days and long nights, Charlie used to
            call at Mr. Browning's and spend an hour or so each week, and soon became a welcome
            visitor, for he was very agreeable and highly entertaining.
          Mr. Browning soon learned to. look with pleasure for his coming, as well as all the
            family, who expected to have a good time whenever he came. Even aristocratic Ferrell,
            who had just graduated with high honors, would condescend to laugh and chat away an
            evening with  Hayward with evident satisfaction. He would
            tell all manner of jokes on himself, and often tease Jennette by telling something which
            he professed to have heard from the school which she was attending. After teasing her
            into a cry, he would coax her into a good humor again with the promise of a sleighride
            when Saturday came, which he always fulfilled without fail. This he cunningly did while
            the parents laughed at his wit, little thinking he was fooling them all, for Mr.
            Browning had never thought of such a thing as a young gentleman of twenty-three thinking
            anything of such a waif as Jennette, other than as a little school-girl. He knew it
            pleased her to ride out, and he felt he could trust her with the one who had saved her
            life so gallantly. Thus, many were the long sleighrides they took that winter. And
            Charlie Hayward was loth to have spring spread her green mantle over mother earth, when
            the snow and cold had afforded him so much pleasure.
          The reader will remember that the then Territory of Kansas was undergoing terrible
            conflicts. The people were trying to prepare the way for admission into the Union as a
            State to which no slave holder could bring the blackened curse of slavery.
          About this time an organization known as the Knights of the Golden Circle, whose
            principal purpose was the extension of human slavery, began to develop. It had its
            degrees, and none but those who attained to all its honors were permitted to know its
            full designs, and not until complete assurance was obtained that they could  be fully trusted with its real purposes, were they admitted
            to full membership. Such associations were widely organized throughout the South, and in
            many of the northern States. The members of President Buchanan's cabinet favored the
            schemes of these conspirators, which enabled them to mature their plans secretly, yet
            efficiently. And while these officials were thus weakening the Government and
            strengthening the hands of the enemy, politicians were skillfully enacting their part of
            the program, and artfully framing a pretext for secession.
          The hour of triumph for the people of Kansas came, however, and the State was admitted
            into the Union with her free Constitution; adding another star of liberty to the
            national banner of freedom.
          But I have digressed somewhat from my story; for I want to impress upon you, my dear
            reader, that, although Charlie Hayward was a Democrat, and had his home in Kansas, he
            had no sympathy with secession.
          Young Hayward had to express his opinion or remain a neutral man--which was a disgrace
            to the name of a man in those days. So, when it reached the ears of Mr. Browning that
            Charley sympathized with the Democratic party, he denounced him at once.
          Jennette had fast grown into a Miss of fifteen years, and began to realize she loved
            Charlie Hayward, despite his politics, and with all her love for Liberty and Union. She
            had a young lady friend just her own age, who was very dear to her. They were always
            together as companions and friends, and all their secrets were  familiarly exchanged. Flora Arlington was very handsome, with a wealth of
            brown curls, and a complexion like the blush of a rose; yet she was haughty and had some
            very bad traits of character. She was jealous-hearted, and extremely selfish; sly and
            cunning, she would stoop to do very low things. She loved Jennette Browning as well as
            she was capable of loving one of her own sex, but if she heard, at any time, compliments
            passed upon Jennette, it worked a jealous feeling through her whole nature. Jennette
            being open hearted, never given to deception, was often made the victim of her
            caprices.
          It was now in the autumn of '60 and the political question was waging warfare among the
            neighbors, friends and relatives right at home. While Mr. Browning and his son Jerry
            were working daily and hourly for the Republican party and for what they believed to be
            the best interests of their country, Charlie Hayward claimed to be a Jackson Democrat
            and loyal to the government. But Mr. Browning gave no quarters to Democratic
            sympathizers, therefore his door was forever closed against young Hayward.
          Nothing daunted, Charlie watched his chances, and improved every opportunity to have a
            conversation with Jennette; and, as she was too noble a girl to clandestinely seek an
            interview with him, it rendered him very unhappy.
          She often went to the house of her friend Flora, and he, some how, would be sure to
            call there and walk home  with her. She tried every way, by
            all argument and persuasion, to get him to see that the man who cast his vote on the
            democratic side, voted with traitors; but he could not see it in that light. She told
            him that if war should be declared,--which at that time seemed very evident--she
            intended to do what she could for Union soldiers, if it was nothing but pick lint to
            bind up their wounds.
          Charlie admired her all the more for standing up for what she believed to be right, and
            said he loved to see her eyes kindle, and her cheeks glow with patriotic fire. She
            showed her real nature then, and he realized how much she was capable of loving--and
            that was what his heart longed for,--the heart of a girl that could love or hate with
            all her might.
          When at last the year of '61 was ushered in, and Abraham Lincoln took his seat, the
            secessionists of South Carolina could not suppress their anger longer, and fired upon
            Fort Sumter. Great gloom fell upon our Nation. All hearts were touched as one vibrating
            cord. Mothers looked on with a sigh; for "oh! my son," was the pervading thought of her
            heart, "must he go to lay down his life?" Wives cried unto God, "spare my husband, oh my
            God!" Hearts that were plighted were wrung with agony, for must their idol be dethroned
            by the cruel war cloud that was lowering so threateningly in the political horizon?
          All over the North the call went forth that "brave, strong men are wanted," and while
            they rallied around  the insulted flag of our country, none
            but the recording angel can ever tell how many prayers, tears and blessings were poured
            upon the altar. Like Abraham of old, they beheld the altar and the glistening weapons,
            but where, oh where, was the sacrifice? Would not God provide himself an offering in
            some other way? But oh! mothers, wives, sisters and loving hearts, you
              remember the sacrifice, and so does He who stayed not His hand.
          Charlie Hayward had, until then, no thought of enlisting in the cause; yet, why he did,
            we shall see.

        
        


        
          CHAPTER III. .LOVER AND BROTHER GO TO WAR.

          
            
              Faithfulness in the humblest part
              Is better at last than proud success,
              And patience and love in a chastened heart
              Are peers more precious than happiness.
            
          

          How often it is when life is just unfolding its first sweet bud, that the killing
            frosts of some great sorrow sears and dwarfs the precious gem, forever hiding it in the
            folded cup--never to bloom out as a rose which yields its fragrance to the great world
            of passers by--but, dwarfed and scorched, it sinks into the shade of despair, to die
            unappreciated and forgotten.
          The reader will remember that Jennette Browning was self-willed and very persisting in
            what she believed to be right.
          When war had fully opened upon us with all its evils, Mr. Browning had refused to let
            Jennette have anything to do with Charlie Hayward--with the warning that if she did, he
            would disown her. She sank under this blow for a season, and gave up to despondency,
            feeling that her father was surely unjust in his demands; yet, he was her father, and
            she was loth to disobey, at  whatever sacrifice. But must
            she give up all she held most sacred? This was the first pure love she had ever given to
            any man; and oh! what tenderness; what deep throbbing of the heart; what great awakening
            to womanhood does first love bring. But, as time passed on, and the mind of Jennette
            began to develop and mature, she asked herself the question, "Should I lose all that
            seems so dear to me, just for a whim of my father's?" She would soliloquize thus: "I
            have heard my father say, that first love was the strongest and most enduring that ever
            came to the human heart; and that he married my mother, who was his first love, much
            against his parents' wishes, and that he had never regretted it. So, why should not I
            have the same privilege?" But feeling at a loss to know just how to proceed, or what to
            do under the weight that seemed to be pressing her to the earth, as she sat alone one
            day in the shade of an old fir tree, impulsively she sprang to her feet exclaiming half
            aloud, "I will go to Uncle Joe Phelps, he always has a way for me when I can see none
            for myself." So, off she flew in the direction of the old weaver's, feeling assured he
            could relieve the awful suspense of mind she had been laboring under ever since Charlie
            Hayward had been refused admittance to her father's house.
          "What is it now, child?" asked the shrewd detective, glad to see the little girl, for
            he knew something was wrong as soon as he saw her; her pale face told him plainer than
            words, that she was suffering in mind. He  guessed the
            truth at once and said, "Jennette, has something happened, honey, to make ye feel
            bad?"
          "Oh, Uncle Joe," replied Jennette, for she knew she could safely trust to his Irish
            wit, "I have come to tell you I am so wretched, and I want you to help me, if you
            can."
          "Go on, child, I will do all I can; I told ye before if iver ye git in trouble, and
            iverybody forsook ye, niver would I."
          "Oh, I know, Uncle Joe, that's why I came to you. Well, father has refused to let me
            even speak to Charlie any more, and I feel that his reasons for so
            doing are all unjust, and I can not help it, Uncle Joe. I love Charlie Hayward; and to
            be entirely debarred from him, breaks my heart," and she wept like a child.
          Poor old Joe's heart was touched with the tenderest sympathy, and he said, "Ye blessed
            darlint, I'll faix matters for ye, if ye'll jist do as I tells ye, and keep sealed
            lips."
          Jennette promised, for she knew she could fully trust him.
          Now he proposed that she should come over on a certain day, and help him beam a web.
            She had often done this, by holding the web of yarn for him, while he turned the beam
            that wound it in the loom,--much to the horror of sister Ferrell, and, in fact, all the
            folks at home. But now she is more than ever determined to help him; as he proposed to
            let Charlie know the day they might meet there and have a talk undisturbed;  and if her father should happen to drop in on them, as he
            was in the habit of calling on Uncle Joe occasionally, it was to be an accidental
            meeting between the young people. At last the day arrived for the beaming of the web;
            much to the satisfaction of young Hayward and Jennette. The work had scarcely begun,
            when in stepped Charlie, with a gun on his shoulder. Uncle Joe excused Jennette
            instantly, and many were the vows made and exchanged between them. And when at last it
            was time that Jennette must go home, she told Charlie he must be very guarded and not
            even look at her when her father was near, for fear of the dreadful consequences.
          Uncle Joe, who had pretended to be too much engrossed with his web to have noticed the
            lovers, now spoke to Jennette and said: "You young folks jist leave this matter all with
            me, now. I'll tell ye, many is the note I've carried to its place, and niver a bit am I
            the worse for it;--and if ye's will jist pass notes through my hands, it will save this
            clandestine meeting, and mebby ye's can love on paper jist as well."
          Jennette blushed at the frankness of Uncle Joe, while Charlie exclaimed, " Capital!
            Uncle Joe, you are a trump! "
          Jennette threw her arms around the neck of old Uncle Joe and said, "Oh! Uncle Joe, you
            have always been so kind to me, I shall love you as long as I live, and your gray hairs
            shall not be laid to rest without one mourner." 

          

          He wiped the tears from his eyes, and said, "My blessed lamb, what would Old Joe do
            without his little Jennette? I have not forgot how I loved my Catharine, away over in
            auld Ireland, and many a lonely hour I've passed since she went to rest; an' sure,
            Jennette, without ye, I would have a very dry funeral."
          Hayward smiled, while he was half jealous of the caress she gave the poor old
            weaver.
          "But darlint, you had better be after gitten home now, for a sorry time would it be to
            us all should your auld father happen in on us,--as he is a little suspicious of my
            politics, any way, and says I do not love America as I should, and all that. But bother
            if I care, so ye gits on all right."
          Young Hayward took both of Jennette's hands in his own, and said, "Jennette, if we are
            never permitted to have another private interview, until this cruel war is over, say you
            will be true to the one that once saved you, and is now ready to lay down his life for
            you?"
          Jennette hung her head, while great hot tears welled up from her very soul, and said:
            "Mr. Hayward I promise with all my heart."
          Charlie drew her to his breast and whispered in her ear, "Jennette, if I should
            volunteer and go to the war, would that suffice for your father?"
          She drew back, turning pale at the thought, forgetting for the moment everything except
            that he might get killed. Words sprang to her lips, but she checked what she was about
            to speak, and said: "Oh ! do not go  to war for my sake,
            dear Charlie, but for your country's sake, remembering that the old
            flag must still wave, and that it takes lives to carry it safely
            through this crisis."
          He snatched her to his heart again, imprinting a kiss upon her lips, and said, "My
            brave little girl, I do love my country. I am a Democrat, but a loyal man, to my
            country, my God, and my little, brave Jennette." "Go, now, and if you hear I have
            enlisted, pray for me, and the God that answers prayers, will bring me back to you.
            Then, surely, I will have gained my prize. I will have fought for human rights, and a
            human heart, and it shall be mine, with the little body in which it
            dwells."
          She pressed his hand, and walked slowly away, while he gazed after her as long as he
            could see the golden hair that peeped out from under her broad brimmed hat that autumn
            day; and as she wended her way homeward, she realized more fully than ever before, the
            depth of her love for Charlie Hayward. And it appeared to her she had lived years in a
            few hours; and that her life seemed shrouded with dark forebodings. Why was it? Was it
            because he had intimated that he was going to war? Was he more to her
            than thousands who were in the field, to-day, were to their lady loves? "Oh, no !" she
            cried to herself, "I shall not say stay, when his country is calling for brave men. No!
            no! never! I will say, go! go, with my blessing! and perhaps father may see, through the
            very act, that, although a  Democrat, he is a loyal man and
            loves the old flag, even to the laying down of his life."
          It was now in the year of '62 and almost every evening the drum was to be heard,
            calling for volunteers, in the little village of B--- , where Mr. Browning resided.
          It was on the evening after Jennette had met and talked with young Hayward at old Uncle
            Joe's, that there was great excitement in the village. The drum was beating, loyal men
            were enthusiastically urging young men to enlist, and save their country. Mr. Browning
            stepped out and said: "Gentlemen, all that keeps me at home, to-day, is the gray hairs
            you see, that cover my head. I am bent somewhat with the weight of years; but I love the
            land of my nativity. I love the flag that has so long waved over us, and has so proudly
            unfurled its stripes and stars on foreign shores as one that kings have honored. And
            now, boys, who will be the first to put his name down here, as one who loves his country
            well enough to protect it with his life?"
          As he held the paper in his hand, who can tell the astonishment of Mr. Browning, when
            young Hayward stepped up and took it and signed his name in a bold hand.
          Cheer after cheer went up, while Mr. Browning was at a loss what to say. But, turning
            to the crowd who had gathered to shake the hand of the young hero, he said: "Who will
            come next?" This time it was Jerry Browning; the oldest son, the first born and the
            pride  of the gray haired man. Oh, how this changed the
            tenor of his feelings! He bowed his head and wept such tears as none but a father can
            weep, under like circumstances. Regaining himself he said: "Go, my son; do honor to the
            name you bear, and if I had a thousand sons to go, I would not say no!"
          Another long and loud applause went up on the evening air, and Mr. Browning returned
            home, with mingled feelings, warring within his breast.
          Jennette had retired, with throbbing pulse, before her father came home; for, somehow,
            she felt that that would be the night in which Charlie Hayward would pass away from her
            forever. She heard distinctly her mother's and sister's rejoicings, when the news was
            broken to them that Charlie Hayward had enlisted, and Jennette wept bitterly when she
            heard her father say: "I hardly care whether he ever returns or not, for I feel that it
            was all for the sake of blinding me into believing him to be a loyal man, that he may
            secure Jennette. But he need not flatter himself on that point."
          Mr. Browning wisely withheld the tidings of his son Jerry's enlistment, knowing the
            feelings of the mother heart; he said, "Ah no, I will let her sleep one night more,
            before she knows of it." So on the morrow the news was gently broken to Mrs. Browning,
            who seemed to sink under it so much that restoratives had tb be used.
          Jerry Browning had been married for several years, and had a wife and three little
            children to leave behind  -three promising little boys; and
            his mother had always felt that while others ought to go to war, Jerry was excusable,
            for his family was too young to leave. But Jerry said, "While other men left all and
            went, he would go, too." And while he had always been an enthusiastic politician, he
            felt now, he could and must still be found working.
            So he went to work with a will, and soon got up a company for the 89th Regiment Indiana
            Volunteers. This, to Jennette, was like laying the dagger to her heart; her ever loved
            and idolized brother, she knew he must now go, and she must say, "Good bye." And oh! if
            it should be the last time. But then, she said, "I will trust to that God who controls
            the destinies of men."
          As the day drew near for his departure, she sought often, many times a day, some lone
            resort, where she could pour out her soul to God in agonizing prayer, for strength, for
            courage and grace to bear her up under this awful trial; and help her to bid him a
            cheerful good bye--that he might not go away with the picture of her tears, and her
            awful grief, ever before him. But alas! when the hour came, the day for which she had
            asked so much courage, it found her unprepared; and when father and mother and sisters
            had all said "Good bye," through many tears, Jerry turned to his favorite little sister
            and said, "Jennette," then a great strong man, bowed down with a grief he could not
            express, folded her to his breast and covered her face with kisses while great sobs
            shook his manly frame.


          

          She threw her arms, lovingly, around his neck, and in the bitterness of her grief she
            sobbed aloud, "Oh! Jerry, Jerry, do not feel so badly; I will pray for you, and God will
            surely bring you back to me; for oh, how can I live without my own dear brother,who
            taught my little feet to walk, and my tongue to speak, and who has loved me and cared
            for me all my life with more than a brother's love."
          Calming herself at last she said, "Go Jerry, and prove yourself as noble, on the field
            of battle, as you have ever been to your little helpless sister; and your name will live
            forever in the hearts of all good men and women."
           "There never was a greater treasure left behind, than I leave in you, my little
            sister, my darling Jennette."
          He could not trust himself to linger longer with the little girl, whom he loved more as
            a child than a sister so he waved a farewell, and was gone.


          Oh! the sad and lonely hours that came and went. She cried in the bitterness of her
            spirit, " What shall I do? all that I love most on earth are on the battlefield; and the
            bullet that takes the life of them,--if fate decrees it so--will mortally wound the one
            who loves them!" But ere long there came a letter from the 46th Indiana to the hand of
            Uncle Joe; and Jennette was soon apprised of the fact, and over she hastened to the hut
            of her kind old friend; with trembling hand she opened the letter, which ran as follows:
              
            
              
                
                  MY DEAR JENNETTE
                    :
                  While here in camp with hundreds talking and laughing in their gayest moods, I
                    am sitting apart from them all, communing with my own heart, and writing to you.
                    I wonder if ever man loved as I love my blue-eyed little Hoosier girl. Now,
                    Jennette, I know that while I am on the battle-field you will ever remember me
                    in your prayers. I want you to remember me when the sun sinks in the western
                    sky; remember me when it comes forth from the east; remember me when it proudly
                    walks the midday heavens; and know that I am thinking of you, my darling, my own
                    Jennette. I am not at all afraid you will ever forget me for one single hour,
                    nor fearful that another heart can win you. I know that to love once with you, is to love ever; and should your father
                    find out our correspondence, and I never get an answer to this my first letter,
                    and I remain three years, or during the war, know this: I
                    shall ever believe you to be the same, and unchanged to me.
                  Yours truly and devotedly,
                    CHARLIE HAYWARD.
                  
                
              
            

          0, how Jennette wept, when she read the tender, loving sentiments of Charlie's heart!
            "Yes," she cried, while she pressed the letter to her heart, "I shall ever remain the
            same."
          Uncle Joe noticed her agitation and said, "Come my little girl, if ye've read that bit
            o' paper, ye had better drap it in the flames here, for sure yer father might be afther
            finden it out."
          She caught her breath at the thought of having to burn the dear words his own hand had
            penned, and that had come from his heart straight to hers.
          But Uncle Joe insisted, and reluctantly she walked toward the fire, while she read
            again the burning words  of love that engraved themselves
            upon her memory forever. At last, kissing it, she threw it into the flames and sat down
            and wept, that even that little boon was denied her, when her heart was breaking at the
            loss of both lover and brother. At length she arose and said, "Good bye, Uncle Joe, and
            a thousand thanks for your love and care of me."
          "Not at all, Jennette; for I will do all I can for ye without thanks, at all, at all,
            ye poor little abused darlint."
          She walked toward home briskly, for she did not care to have her parents know where she
            had been. And as she was pondering what the future had in store for her she heard the
            sound of wheels, and looking back saw young Jay Cooper, with his fine matched ponies,
            the finest in the county, and of which he was very proud. Tipping his hat politely, he
            asked Jennette to take a seat beside him, and he would take her home. Jennette would
            have preferred walking, in order that she might have nothing to break in upon her
            meditations; but, knowing it would be unladylike, to decline so pleasant a drive, she
            allowed him to seat her by his side. He chatted gayly and pleasantly, as he drove at
            full speed; and playfully asked her, how time passed without Charlie Hayward.
          She answered pointedly and said, "Dull enough, I assure you."
          She knew her father would be more than pleased to see her drive up with Mr. Cooper; for
            he was of a fine  old family, that had both name and wealth
            to carry them through. Besides, they were very patriotic in principle, and clung with
            devotion to the Republican party. Mr. Browning had often held up Mr. Cooper's good
            qualities to Jennette, in the most glowing light possible; drawing a contrast between
            him and Hayward, saying: "Why throw yourself away on such a fellow as he is, when such
            men as Cooper are to be had?" Cooper had made some advances, that Jennette had slighted,
            at different times--for which she was greatly censured; but on this evening he made
            himself very agreeable. And on being invited so cordially, by Mr. Browning, to come in
            and take tea with the family, he consented to do so, with a secret determination to win
            Jennette Browning, if possible. The family were all secretly hoping that this visit of
            Mr. Cooper's might awaken a new interest in Jennette's mind for him. After tea was
            served, and he was ready to drive off again, he asked Jennette if he might have the
            pleasure of a drive with her the next Sunday afternoon. She dare not refuse, for he had
            frankly proposed the ride before the members of the family, and she knew to refuse,
            would only call down censure upon her own head. She saw no way but to accept the
            invitation.
          Oh, how she dreaded the hour of his coming, for she felt it was sacrilege to the memory
            of Charley Hayward. And she preferred solitude to any one's company. But the day and the
            hour arrived, and young Cooper came, looking handsome, and his ponies never showed to
            better  advantage than they did that day, prancing and
            pawing the ground, restless to be going. And when Jennette was seated, they darted off
            at lightning speed.
          Mr. Cooper was so attentive and proved so congenial a companion, that Jennette rather
            enjoyed the ride; and could not say she felt altogether indifferent to his attentions.
            As they were nearing home he pressed her to accept his company to an illumination party,
            that was to be given at Dr. Arlington's the next evening, in honor of a victory won by
            the boys in blue. She said to herself, "Oh! if I could stay at home and not be forced to
            go in society. But, then, father would guess the reason and would get angry with me. So
            to go with Mr. Cooper will only be to please my father, and blind the world as to how
            much my heart is suffering; " therefore, she said, "Yes, I will go."
          Cooper was a happy man and inwardly rejoiced .that Charlie Hayward was out of his
            way.
          The party was a grand affair, and all pronounced it a success; every one seemed to be
            gay and festive; while Jennette must play her part and smile when she would rather have
            wept.
          Flora Arlington was looking her handsomest that evening, and knew, as far as beauty
            went, she far excelled Jennette. Yet she felt jealous when she saw the most intelligent
            of the party draw near Jennette and talk as if she was a woman far beyond her years.
            Flora could converse only on some trivial subject, where she could jest and be
            frivolous; while Jennette was  thoroughly posted on all the
            questions of the day. She would talk of the war, with patriotic fire burning in her
            soul, and all loved to hear her express herself. Mr. Cooper was proud that he had the
            honor of bringing the most intelligent girl to the party.
          Flora Arlington watched her chance, and stung Jennette by saying, just loud enough for
            Cooper to hear, "What would Charlie think if he knew you had so soon forgotten your
            vows."
          Jennette spoke clearly and distinctly as she answered, "I expect to keep all vows
            sacred, that I make to God and my fellow men--not breaking one!"
          Flora was easily cowed by Jennette's bold, open manner of speech, and willingly changed
            the subject; leaving Mr. Cooper feeling as if he occupied rather an awkward
            position.
        

        




        
          CHAPTER IV. THE HEART TRIAL, OR THE GREAT SACRIFICE.
          
            
              How sad to break the tender cord
              That binds two hearts in one,
              And he who deals the fatal blow,
              Must surely and forever know
              He never can atone.
            
          
          There are hours in our lives that seem blank, as if they held nothing of interest. To a
            proud and sensitive nature, how terrible it is to feel that life is not what is desired;
            that its destinies are controlled by the hands of others, who know not how tenderly and
            delicately the soul is framed together, and what careful handling it should receive,
            when love has fastened its hold deep down in the heart, and seeks to be enthroned there.
            Days came and went with Jennette Browning, and she moved about as one living for others
            and not at all for herself; like a piece of machinery she was moved from place to place.
            With no will of her own save to try to teach her heart submission; she was thus wholly
            subject to the will of others. Meanwhile Jay Cooper never let an opportunity pass that
            he might do something to ingratiate himself in her favor. But her heart shrank  from him; she did not want anything to do with him, and
            loathed the thought of his society. Her father, however, kept a vigilant watch and
            became suspicious that Jennette was corresponding with Charlie Hayward. He spoke
            privately to the postmaster about her mail matter, and ordered all letters, if any, from
            the 46th Regiment, stopped in his hands, and told him to watch old Joe Phelps, for he
            was suspicious that a letter from Hayward would pass through his hands. The day again
            came when Uncle Joe received a letter for Jennette. The postmaster, easily detected it,
            and being an intimate friend of Mr. Browning's, informed him at once, and he availed
            himself of the privilege of going over and positively demanding the same from poor old
            Uncle Joe, who was feeling that he had a happy duty to perform; he could make Jennette
            happy by thus helping her to hear from her lover.
          When Mr. Browning entered the hut, Uncle Joe noticed there was something wrong, but
            without ceremony Mr. Browning demanded the letter he had received from the 46th
            Regiment.
          Uncle Joe was at a loss, for a moment, what to say, but at length spoke and said: "I
            have a few friends, Mr. Browning, as well as yerself, and why demand my letters? What is
            a letter to any one except its owner?"
          "That's another matter, Joe," said Mr. Browning, "but I want to ask you a plain
            question, and I want you to answer on the honor of a man: Have you at any time received
            a letter or letters for Jennette, through  the postoffice,
            from the hand of Charlie Hayward?"
          To Uncle Joe Phelps this seemed the hardest trial of his life, for Mr. Browning had
            been a kind and faithful friend to him, in the past. When he came to live near him in
            his home on the Ohio, he was a stranger, poor and lonely, and with no earthly relative
            to care for him. Mr. Browning had taken him in, pitied him and had given him a house to
            live in, and in which to weave. He had cared for him often when he was sick, and,
            altogether, he owed him a debt of gratitude he felt he never could repay. Yet, had he
            not loved the dear little blue-eyed girl, whom, he said, ever reminded him of the wee
            little lassie he had laid away under the daisies, by her mother's side, before he left
            "Ould Ireland?" and when Mr. Browning had left the river country, old Uncle Joe had come
            with him to Howard county, where he still lived in one of his houses and continued to
            weave, to support what he called a "useless life." But now a great trial was upon him,
            to tell Mr. Browning an untruth; to deceive him, when he had asked him a pointed
            question was a terrible thing to do. So, looking Mr. Browning in the face, he said, "Mr.
            Browning, you have been a faithful friend to old Joe, and mebby I'm in the wrong now;
            but Jennette has been all in all to me; she has been my only comfort for so many years,
            and to do either of you a wrong breaks my heart. So I will jist say, if I have a word or
            two from Hayward to Jennette, she shall niver know it; I shall niver gin it to the poor
            thing, if ye demand so much of me. Her heart is  nearly
            broken now, poor dear; and mebby its all no use," he wittingly said, "for rumor goes he
            writes steady to another girl."
          "I hope he may be writing to some one else, I'm sure, but, Mr. Phelps, if you have a
            letter it is mine. She is under age, and as a father who loves her, I am here to demand
            it of you; and if you want to prove your gratitude for my past kindness, give me the
            letter."
          Uncle Joe turned pale at the thought, but firmly refused, and said, "No, no, Mr.
            Browning, she shall niver know its contents, and that is sufficient. And if she fail to
            hear, perhaps her love may die out afther a while."
          "I am afraid not. Jennette is not the kind of a woman to throw away a true love, and
            ever let another take its place. But this I consider the most inconsistent act of her
            life. This wretch, who has no means but empty hands and empty pockets, and I believe, in
            his heart is a traitor to his country; while she has good, loyal admirers, who are ready
            to fall at her feet--but for this worthless rebel she shuns them all.
          "He followed me out to this country when I thought to get rid of him forever; and if he
            had staid away, I believe Jennette would have loved Jay Cooper, and all would have come
            out as I desired. I hope that some intervening Providence may hinder his return. That is
            all the harm I wish him."
          "Mr. Browing, I am afeared ye are a little too hard," Uncle Joe replied, "I heard Mr.
            Hayward speak  in loyal terms of his country. He said he
            was a Jackson Democrat and a loyal man, and was going to protect the flag at all
            hazards, and I am sure he loves Jennette dearly, and would mack a gude livin for
            her."
          "Phelps, I want to hear no more from you! My daughter can never marry a man that must
            toil late and early to eke out a meager living for her, while she is a brilliant young
            lady, and worthy of the best man in the land."
          "Och! I know! I know! but what if she should mack some other man a miserable, unhappy
            wife,--what then?"
          Mr. Browning said, "Phelps, you are the middle party in this matter; this deceitful
            Hayward is only making a tool of you, whereby he can accomplish his ends. And now I tell
            you, if you ever give Jennette the letter you have in your keeping, you will rue the,
            day as long as you live. Mark my words! And Jennette's intimacy with you shall be as
            completely cut off as her and Hayward's communications are. Hear me out! If you ever
            aid, or further on in any way, this clandestine love matter, I'll turn you out of doors
            and send you adrift."
          Old Joe felt his knees tremble,--it seemed as if they could not hold him up; for the
            thought of being barred out from Jennette's society, took all the pleasure out of his
            life. He felt he could not live much longer, and all the comfort he had, now he was old,
            was Jennette's company. She read and sang for him often; "but, alas,"  he cried, "those days are all gone, gone forever." So he
            went back to his loom with a sad heart and trembling limbs, and Mr. Browning walked
            rapidly homeward, determined to have a private interview with his daughter that would
            settle the matter forever, one way or the other.
          When he arrived at the gate Jennette met him with a light in her eyes that showed
            eagerness, and asked:
          "Did you get a letter from the 89th?"
          "No, not this morning; but I wish to speak to you, privately, Jennette."
          She knew something terrible was troubling him, and she shuddered at the thought. " What
            if he has found out my correspondence with Charlie."
          She led the way into the parlor, and shut the door. He began with trembling lips that
            touched Jennette immediately; for she loved her father devotedly, and could not bear to
            see him grieved. She listened, with baited breath, for what was to come. He
            continued:
          "Jennette, I love you, darling, as no one but a father can love a child."
          "Oh, I believe it, father! Did you suppose I doubted your devotion for a moment?"
          "Yes, Jennette, you have proven by your actions that you have doubted my love for
            you."
          Guessing at the truth of the whole matter, she stammered out, "Why, father?"
          "Because you and this unworthy wretch of a Hayward have chosen to use old Uncle Joe as
            a medium  through which to communicate; and now, Jennette,
            it grieves me to say that if this is not forever stopped, I shall have to resort to
            harsh means, whereby I can save you from such a fate. Let me never hear of you entering
            the hut of old Joe Phelps again. That was all very well when you were a little girl, but
            as a young lady you are to keep yourself entirely away and have nothing to say to him.
            Why, Jennette, I am astonished that you should even think of such a man as Hayward as a
            lover! I have always been proud of your ambition; proud to know you had high
            aspirations; and while I know you have ever been a true and noble girl, it pains me more
            than tongue can tell to know you will deceive me in any way in order to correspond with
            this fellow, who is unworthy of you in every respect."
          Jennette could bear no more, but fell on her knees before her father, who was looking
            so pale and agitated, and clasping his hand in hers, she said:
          "Father, my own dear father, I have done all you accuse me of. I have loved, and do at
            this moment, love Charlie Hayward, with a love I can never, never give to another man;
            but if you'll forgive my folly and my weakness in this matter, I will clutch my heart
            strings and tear them from my bosom, before I will grieve my poor old father more. Say
            you will forgive me, father, and all will be forever past, if my life goes out with my
            love." She was shaking now as one with a terrible chill.
           Mr. Browning became alarmed at her agitation, and  drew
            her to his breast and said, lovingly, " There, there, my little girl, do not feel so
            badly; I will forgive, I do forgive you. Jennette, you shall have all you desire; you
            shall not make this sacrifice for nothing, for I will do all in my power to make you
            happy. And while you have devoted admirers you need not waste one thought on a trifling
            fellow, who would sacrifice principle for a fancied love. He only fancies he loves you,
            because he rescued you from the water. I would rather you had gone down, never to rise
            again, than that you should become his wife."
           "And again, Jennette, you are my little politician; you have ever been foremost in
            condemning disloyalty, and this Hayward would rather be in the South to-day, in arms
            against the Northern armies, than in the ranks of the Union soldiers. But he will fight
            against what he believes to be right, in order to dupe an old man and get his
            daughter."
          "Oh, father, father!" cried Jennette, say no more, I can not bear it. Charlie is noble,
            brave and good; you do not, can not, nor never will understand him. While I owe him my
            life, I owe him all the true love of a woman--for he is worthy; but let it pass, dear
            father, let us never speak of it again, only promise me one thing, and that is, you will
            not compel me to go with Jay Cooper."
          This was a trying moment for her father. He had not expected such an outbreak of
            passionate love; nor had he anticipated such a request as this. His whole  heart was set on her accepting Mr. Cooper; which he knew by
            observation she would have to do, or refuse. He could see, with half an eye, that the
            young man was devotedly attached to her, and it was just such a match as he desired her
            to make; therefore, he answered in an evasive manner: " Well, Jennette, I shall never
              force you to marry any man; but I should like to see you show
            respect to my wishes in such matters as this. You are young, you will get over this
            foolish attachment for one not worthy of you; then, perhaps Mr. Cooper, with his good
            name, ample means, and fine talents, will look less mean in your eyes. But we will now
            end our interview, with the certainty that Charlie Hayward is, for all time to come,
            given over into the hands of this other young lady, I hear he is corresponding
            with."
          Jennette looked up quickly, feeling a little nettled at first, but quietly withheld
            what she was about to say, and replied: "I hope he may love whoever it may be, and live and die a happy man--this is my prayer."
          Her father felt a ray of hope, that he had said the right thing in the right place.
            Knowing her proud spirit so well, he believed that if he could only awaken a jealous
            feeling, it would prove a balm that would heal the wound completely.
          Jennette arose and walked out of the room, as one blind to all around her. She went to
            her own room, turned the key in the door, in order that she might be alone; for oh, what
            agony filled her soul! She sat down and tried to think. But some how her brain reeled,
               and refused to help her frame into words even a prayer
            for help. It was an awful hour, she threw herself upon the bed and fell into a deep
            sleep, from which she was not aroused until summoned to dinner. But when she tried to
            rise, she fell back again as one paralyzed; she made the second effort; this time she
            staggered to the door; unlocked it to find her mother in waiting, but she only had time
            to reach the bed again, when she swooned away entirely. Her mother was greatly alarmed
            and summoned the family at once. Ferrell said it was rather hysterical. Minnie, her
            eldest sister, said, "Go for the family physician at once, for she is very sick.'" Her
            father hastened to do Minnie's bidding, while her mother prepared warm restoratives; but
            she lay for twenty-four hours unconscious to all her surroundings; and then only opened
            her eyes long enough to tell them she was, oh! so sick; and it was her head--while her
            heart had such a strange feeling about it. Then sinking away again, she knew nothing
            more for ten days, but lay just between life and death. The old physician pronounced it
            brain fever, he said it was some mental trouble, a strain of mind that almost paralyzed
            the brain.
          Her father had not yet spoken of their recent interview, not even to her mother, and he
            said to himself, if my little girl dies, I'll never let any one know of our interview,
              never.
          Mr. Browning was never more wretched than he was during the ten days she lay grappling
            with death.  "Oh," he said, "if she dies I shall always
            feel that my words killed her."
          He was a devoted man; and how often during those terrible days and nights of suffering,
            did he take her case before the Great Physician, and ask Him to touch her body with His
            healing power, and take away the love of Charlie Hayward from her heart. For dearly as
            he loved her, he would rather have given her over to the hands of the white winged
            messenger, than to have given her to Hayward. But as life seemed loth to yield its hold
            upon her, she slowly returned from the gates of death.
          She would often say to her mother, "I would rather have died, if God had willed it
            so."
          Her mother was much astonished at her words; knowing she was always of a cheerful,
            happy nature, she could not understand why she seemed so sad at her own recovery. She
            had often asked her the cause; but Jennette knew her mother was troubled greatly with
            heart disease, and would not tell her any of her troubles. She said to herself, "No, no,
            she feels too deeply the loss of Brother Jerry, and I must not ask her to share any
            sorrow with me. No, if I must give up Charlie Hayward, I shall dig his
            grave in my own heart and bury him there, and the flowers of love shall bloom and grow
            eternally, watered by my tears."
          She grew better, but so slowly, and winter came and advanced so rapidly, that before
            she fully recovered Christmas was the all-absorbing topic of the day.


          


          Young Cooper, who had made many calls of inquiry concerning Jennette's recovery, was
            now admitted to her room, and would call every day and spend a few moments in cheerful
            conversation, only to the mortification of poor Jennette. He always brought her some
            nice oranges, bananas, or something he thought would tempt her appetite and bring the
            glow to her cheeks again.
          And now it lacked but one more day 'till Christmas, and he was wondering what he should
            get her for a present. He was going to the city, and he ransacked his brain for some
            little present that she would be proud of, and consider a treasure. He knew how fond of
            books she was, and concluded he would try something in that line; the first thing he did
            on entering the city, was to visit a book store, and from among the many books that were
            thrown down to him, he selected the story of Enoch Arden. He said to himself: "The story
            is a pathetic one, and she is so tender-hearted, she will love it, I know;" therefore he
            made the purchase, and on his return home, he passed by the house of Mr. Browning; and,
            looking up to where Jennette sat by her window, looking so pale and thin, he said in his
            heart, as he waved his hand at her and passed on, "What if she dies yet? It does not
            appear that any life is coming back to her; her eyes are so dull, and cheeks so pale. I
            know now that I love that girl better than I ever loved any one before; and if she ever
            gets out of that house, I shall ask her to be my wife." Thus  soliloquizing, he drew up at his hotel, where his mother and sisters gave their
            oversight and he ruled as king. He was the only son at home, and his father being dead,
            he felt himself the head of the family; and was landlord and monarch of all the hotel
            surroundings. After eating dinner, he said to his mother, "I will now go down and
            present Jennette with my new gift--a nice book which I bought in the city to-day."
           His mother and sisters were very fond of Jennette, and his mother asked him if he
            would take a choice little dish she had prepared for poor Jennette with her own hands?
            He said: "To be sure, mother, and many thanks; for I want you to love her, and her you.
            I am going to make her mistress of my house, some day."
          His sisters laughed gaily, and one of them said, "If you can! But if
            stands in the door."
          He snapped his fingers at them and said, "I have the advantage of Hayward; I have her
            father on my side!" For he knew what the if was that stood in the
            door.
          He was ushered into Jennette's room by her mother, who shut the door after her and
            retired.
          She was still in the big arm chair, looking pale as usual, but smiled faintly and
            accepted the nice dish of delicate food Mr. Cooper's mother had prepared for her. She
            thanked him for it, and said, "Oh, Jay! what a good, kind mother you have."
          "Yes, she is indeed a good mother, and she loves you, too, Jennette."


          

          "I believe it," she replied.
          "But not so well as her son does. Do you believe that."
          Jennette blushed a crimson, for she could not bear to hear another man say he loved
            her. She said, "Oh, every one is so kind to me, and have appeared so solicitous for my
            recovery, I should love them all, and do."
          Mr. Cooper noticed the evasive answer, and perhaps felt that he had said too much, as
            she was too weak to talk sentimental, so he changed the subject, and said: "I had a nice
            sleigh-ride, to-day, Jen."
          "Did you? What's the news from the city?"
          "Oh! war, war! that is all that's talked of now-a-days."
          Jennette felt her heart stand still for a second; she felt that war was a cruel thing,
            and terrible to contemplate.
          "And, by the way," said Jay, " I have a nice book for you! As to-morrow is Christmas, I
            will present it to you now; and you can enjoy the day when it comes, reading it."
          She took the book with trembling hands, feeling she was doing that which she aught not
            to do, and for a moment was lost in reverie. She felt as though Charlie's eyes were
            looking straight into her own-- saying, "I know you will be true to
            me, I shall never doubt you, nor fear that you will love another."
          "Oh," she said to herself, "I have not forgotten, nor loved another; but fate, stern
            fate, has made me yield, that is all!"


          


          She opened the book, and exclaimed with something of her old enthusiasm, " Oh! its
            Enoch Arden, the very story I have wanted all my life, but never have found till now!
            Many thanks, Mr. Cooper, for your thoughtfulness of me."
          "I hope it will help to bring the roses back to your cheeks again, and give you
            something to think of, besides the four square walls surrounding you. You have been a
            prisoner long enough now. My ponies are prancing this weather to get on the road for a
            sleigh-ride, so I want you to read and get well, and honor me with your company for a
            long sleigh-ride, as soon as you are able to go out."
          But at this moment her eyes fell on the fly-leaf of her book, and the lines traced
            there ran as follows:-- "From one that loves, with a fond hope of being loved in
            return."
          "I will try," gasped Jennette, nestling back among the pillows, and, if possible,
            looking more wretched than before.

        


        


        
          CHAPTER V. JENNETTE'S CONVALESCENCE AND HER MESSAGE TO 
            CHARLIE.

          
            
              The darkest hours of life go by,
              When hope's sweet bud is broken;
              All crushed and bleeding now must lie,
              The dearest joys that feign would fly
              To grasp the bow that spans the sky,
              Our Heaven-promised token.
            
          

          Spring at last merged from a hard and bitter winter, finding Jennette but very little
            improved in health. Somehow the pain at her heart kept weakening her, in spite of all
            the doctor's remedies, and when the birds began to return to build their nests in the
            leafy trees, she began to fret, like one in a cage, longing to fly away to another
            place, for oh! she was so tired of all her surroundings, and of her devoted friend,
            Cooper--who haunted her like a shadow.
          So she began to plead with her father to let her go to the hospitals of the Union
            armies, where she might bind up wounds and bathe the burning brows of loved
            ones--"Somebody's darlings"--whose lives were slowly wearing away with pure homesickness
            and want of ()  woman's tender nursing. She begged her
            father just to let her care for the poor, sick boys in blue. She said she realized
            better now than ever before, how terrible a thing it was to be sick, and how much more
            terrible it must be to be far away from home and friends.
          But her father shook his head, saying, "You are too young and too impulsive; I could
            not let you go, my little girl; besides, you are scarcely strong enough to help yourself
            yet."
          She told him that change of climate would do her good.
          Her mother and sister Minnie argued in favor of it, saying they did not believe she
            would ever get well here; but her father stoutly refused and told her if she wanted to
            work for the soldiers, she could join the Woman's Aid Society and do all she was able to
            do; he would supply her with money. He said they were picking lint, making needle
            pockets and all manner of little articles that would please the boys and make them feel
            that they had not been forgotten back home.
          This proved a kind of solace to poor, weary Jennette, and she set about it in real
            earnest. The Society met at Dr. Arlington's one afternoon, and Flora came over with her
            pony to take Jennette, for she was not yet able to walk so far.
          They were all talking and wondering what would be best to send in a large box they were
            carefully preparing for the 46th Regiment. Jennette spoke in an undertone to Flora, and
            said, "Let us make a long row  of pockets on a piece of
            oilcloth, and fill each with something nice--put in something that may be of use to
            them."
          "Agreed," said Flora, laughing, "and let's write a love letter, too, and put in one of
            them."
          "Well," said Jennette, "as far as the love letter goes, I do not care to make love to
            some one I never saw, perhaps--yet, we do not know whose hands they may fall into. We
            will write at a venture, perhaps it may cheer some one, and make them feel as if to be
            remembered was worth as much as all the pockets contained."
          So, with deft fingers they went to work, and soon had a row of pockets made to contain
            various articles, such as small scissors, thread, needles, buttons, combs, toothbrushes,
            handkerchiefs, and, last of all, each wrote their letter.

          Flora's ran as follows: 
              
                
                  Now whoever is the lucky chap to get this, my little offering, must know I am
                    in love with him; and when this cruel war is over, I hope he may come to our
                    little village and search me out; and at least thank me for this, my favor of
                    the 23d day of April, 1863.
                  
                    FROM A YOUNG LADY OF SWEET S
                      IXTEEN.
                  
                
              
            
          

          But Jennette wrote in another and more thoughtful mood:
              
                

                  DEAR FRIEND :
                   I say dear friend, because all who are in the field, to-day, are my friends,
                    for they are braving dangers, and facing death for us who are left behing in the
                    dear old homes that are so lonely without you. If, by chance, anyone with whom I
                    am acquainted, should get this my little offering read this, and know that as a
                    regiment the 46th is most dear to me. For among the many brave and  noble boys who fill its ranks, there is one for whom
                    I pray most especially, morning, noon and night; and let what will come, I will
                    ever be true to him. And if I never see him more, I feel that life holds nothing
                    for me; and if it is his fate to receive this little note let him know that if I
                    cannot correspond with him I can not be hindered from loving him; because I owe
                    him my life. And the love of a true woman flows on until it is swallowed up in a
                    great ocean of tenderness and devotion.
                   I will subscribe my true and real name, JENNETTE B
                      ROWNING.
                
              
            

          The little pockets were snugly packed away in one corner of the great box; and Flora
            wondered after her letter, and what they would think, while Jennette prayed in her heart
            that Charlie might be the lucky man who would get hers.
          Major Watts, of the 46th Regiment, had lived near the families of Dr. Arlington and Mr.
            Browning, and was intimately acquainted with both the young ladies. And when the good
            ladies had completed their work, the box was sent to the 46th in care of Major Watts. It
            was some time before it reached its destination away down in Tennessee; but when it did
            at last arrive, there was a great shout in camp, for home seemed to have come down among
            them.
          They gathered around the box, so nicely packed with good things--and all by loving
            hands--that strong men wept as they unrolled their parcels.
          "That's all!" said the Major, and was about to turn away, when his eyes rested on two
            small parcels he had overlooked, which were almost hidden from view among  the paper packing. He drew them from their hiding place, and
            through curiosity opened them. He recognized, at a glance, the hand-writing of the two
            young ladies, for he had corresponded with both of them, and he exclaimed, "Well, well!
            something right from home, with a letter for the happy man that is fortunate enough to
            get them." All hands went up, and "I, I!" resounded all over the camp.
          Young Hayward, luckily, was standing near, and the Major said,"Charlie, I think this is
            yours, individually."
          He took it with trembling hands and beating heart, hoping it might be something from
            Jennette. And when he read the letter he sought a retired spot, where he might give vent
            to tears, long pent up, for he felt as though his heart would burst for very joy,--and
            read again and again the golden missive, and said, "Oh, Jennette? my own Jennette, you
            never were more dear to me than at this moment! To know that you have at last got well,
            and are trying to find me by stratagem. I know, now, that you love me; know it better
            than I ever did before, my little true-hearted Hoosier girl!"
          Hayward had heard from others who had received letters from B--- , that Jennette was
            not expected to live long, and he had grown so pale and thin that his own brothers would
            not have known him.
          Old Uncle Joe had written him the best he could, how Jennette had been treated, and how
            he, poor old man, missed her, and dare not go to see or inquire after her.


          

          Charlie believed it would kill him sooner or later, if the terrible suspense was not
            broken. But the little pockets with their nice trinkets and letters came just in time;
            he had said, " I will try soon for a furlough home, and I'll see Jennette, I will see her!" and he clenched his fist and set his teeth, in a manner quite
            conclusive.
          Major Watts noticed the change that little parcel had made in him, and one day said to
            him, "Charlie, old boy, I am glad I did not entirely overlook that little package, for
            it did not find you any too soon. I had been talking to the General a few days since,
            just prior to the reception of that box, and we had concluded you would have to have a
            furlough home, or we would soon lose a good soldier; but I believe you will soon be your
            old self again. Look here, boy, now you must not give way to morbid feelings any more,
            for remember these girls are weak things at best, and are liable to marry some
            stay-at-home, apron-string chap at any time."
          "No," said Charlie, "never, not Jennette, she is different from all her sex."
          Well, I believe she is a true little lass. I have known Jennette a long time, I know
            she is very patriotic; but how is the old gentleman? Is he as bitter against you as
            ever?
          "Yes, Major. It appears that he loves to torment the poor girl with the idea that I am
            a rebel, because I am a Democrat."
          "Well, well," said the Major, "never mind, when I go home I will inform the old
            gentleman that the 46th has  no better soldier than
            yourself, and perhaps," he said, laughing, "I can bring about a reconciliation." And,
            patting him on the shoulder, he walked away, leaving Charlie to his own meditations,
            which were about as follows:
          "If Mr. Browning ever compels Jennette to marry Cooper, who is a stay-at-home, cowardly
            puppy, I shall surely be the most wretched man on earth, and I'll have revenge, too!" he
            said to himself, while his black eyes looked every word he uttered.
          But he went about with a lighter heart than for months, for he had the letter in his
            pocket assuring him that he had her heart, and Cooper nor any other man could wrest it
            from him.
          All this time Jennette was hoping and trusting that Providence would guide the letter
            to the one for whom it was written.
          About this time the Government called for six months men, believing that with
            reinforcements they could suppress the rebellion in that length of time. Young Cooper
            responded to this call, for he had concluded that if he ever won Jennette, it would be
            by going into the war. So he enlisted, to the secret satisfaction of Jennette, but
            before going he sought a private interview with Mr. Browning, and told him he loved
            Jennette as never man loved woman before; but said it appeared that she was loth to
            accept his love--do what he might.
          Mr. Browning promised to do all in his power to get Jennette to care for him as she
            should, assuring Mr.  Cooper that nothing could be more
            satisfactory to him, than to see her his wife. But, he remarked that she had a self-will
            about her that he did not like,--a determination he could not overcome; said she had
            fallen in love with this deucedly deceitful Hayward, and he was afraid she would never
            quite forget him,--although she had promised not to correspond with him, and had kept
            her word, yet she still remembered the unworthy wretch.
          Cooper replied that he did not believe she cared so much for Hayward, but that she was
            not well, and he believed a change of scene and place would make her well and happy
            again, saying: "Have you no friends any where, that you could let her go and visit
            awhile? I heard her remark a few days ago, how well she would like to see the old river
            hills again, and the playmates of her childhood. Would it not be well, Mr. Browning, to
            let her go there for a few weeks, or even months, as the case might be, if she seems to
            improve? Let her stay with some aunt, or near friends,--until I return, at any rate."
            Then laughing, he said: " You know I would want her back then."
          "Well, Mr. Cooper, I believe yours is a good idea. I will think of this, and speak to
            her mother about it, and if Jennette desires to go, she shall go. I have a sister with
            whom she could stay as long as she desires, and if I find she is pleased with the idea,
            she may go immediately,--much as we shall miss her. Her health is to be desired, above
            everything else."


          

          "Yes," said Jay, "we must see that she gets the roses back to her cheeks again. And,
            Mr. Browning, I shall be glad if you will accept this offer of mine, that if she does
            not go away, you will let her drive my ponies just where and when she wishes. That may
            serve as an invigorator for her weak nerves."
          "Thank you, Mr. Cooper, you are very thoughtful, and I will have her ride out often, if
            you believe the ponies perfectly safe for her to drive."
          "Oh, perfectly, Mr. Browning! I would not let her drive anything that would be likely
            to endanger her life. They are gay, and want to be off, but are perfectly harmless. I
            will go and see Jennette, as I wish to say good-bye, and have a talk with her before I
            go soldiering."
          Jennette was reading Enoch Arden when he entered the room. She looked up, with her eyes
            full of tears, and said, "Ah, Jay, I do feel so sorry for Anna!"
          "While I feel sorry for Philip," he replied.
          "Oh, yes, I did, too, while he was waiting, but still more sorry for her, for she loved
            Enoch so much better, and oh, that was so terrible, to love so devotedly and not know
            whether he lived or not."
          "And poor Enoch, how must he have felt, when he looked in on the family, Philip taking
            his place, and himself cast out? I read until I feel as if I can go no farther, and
            every time I read or re-read, the story seems to grow more and more pathetic."
          "Well, Jennette, I have come in as Philip, asking if  I
            can not take a place in your heart? Can you not learn to love me, as Anna did
            Philip?"
          She almost screamed, "Oh, Jay! do not, please do not, ask me such a question as that!
            "
          "Yes, yes, little Jennette, my heart is too full, I must come as Philip pleading for
            your love, and tell you I want you to be my wife, when I return from war."
          "Would you ask me to be your wife, when my heart is unalterably anothers?"
          " Do not tell me that!" said Jay, while he looked the picture of despair. "Jennette, do
            you know I have loved you ever since you first came to this country, when you were a shy
            young girl in short dresses?"
          "So has Charlie loved me ever since he carried me in his arms after saving me from a
            watery grave."
          "Oh, well, that fellow is not your equal, Jennette, he does not stand on the same
            footing with you or I."
          Jennette arose with more fire in her eyes than Mr. Cooper ever wished to provoke again,
            and said, " Sir, he is your equal, and far surpasses myself in
            nobleness; for I know that he is to-day defending my liberty, and with his life he would
            stand by me; so do you never dare again breathe aught against him to
            me, or I shall hate you if you do."
          "Forgive me, Jen, if I have wounded your feelings by speaking of him as I have; but you
            have promised your father never to have anything more to do with him."
          "On certain conditions, sir."
          "And what are those conditions?"


          


          "That I am not to be compelled to marry any other man."
          The blood mounted to her cheeks that were white as marble, for she wanted to say you, but thought for her father's sake she would go no farther."
          Mr. Cooper was naturally a very jealous man, and a villian at heart, if there should
            anything cross his path to bring out his real nature. He knew now that he must try some
            other plan if he ever won the love of Jennette Browning. So he took her hand and raised
            it to his lips and said, "for this little hand, and the heart that accompanies it, I
            would brave many dangers; I could even dare to die. Jennette, I have tried to show you
            by every kindness possible, that I love you devotedly; and your father is pleased with
            me, so I will hope yet that you may one day see that you are slighting a love that is
            pure and true; and, as I leave now, I will say good bye, hoping that you will answer my
            letters while I am away."
          "Yes, I will write, but do not ask me to accept a love I cannot return. I believe you
            to be a gentleman, and that you love me; I have read as much in your eyes, and if you
            do, I am sorry, believe me, I am sorry for you."
          Jay stood before her looking into the depth of her honest eyes, and said in his heart,
            "pity is akin to love, I believe, in time, I shall win her."
          He said, "Jennette, if I should never get back from the war, the ponies are yours; keep
            them in memory of  me; and here is a ring, allow me to
            place it on your finger with a wish, and you are not to remove it until I return. If I
            never get back do as you like with it, but keep the ponies."
          This last act of kindness was too much for the kind and tender heart of poor Jennette.
            She broke down and wept like a child, and allowed him to slip the ring on her hand with
            the desired wish, although she felt it would prove a snare to her. She said, "I hope to
            see you back, Jay, your kindness is more than I deserve. You are a noble fellow, and I
            will try to give you all the room in my heart possible, and for father's sake even try
            to give you the love you ask. But oh! you must wait--wait until I can."
          She was now so agitated that she threw herself in the old arm chair, and the tears
            flowed like rain.
          Jay stooped over her, kissed her forehead and whispered, "I'll wait, Jennette, so good
            bye, my little girl, and when I write, you answer, and war service will not be so hard
            to endure, nor time prove so long and lonely."
          Jennette said, " I will," while he went his way to join his regiment the next day.
        

        



        
           CHAPTER VI. THE SISTER'S SECRET.
          
            
              How hard it is to suffer thus
              For the wrong that's done by others;
              But when the soul for justice cries,
              There is an inner spirit tries
              To check the fountain that supplies
              The stream of grace that smothers.
            
          
          After Mr. Cooper had gone, Jennette sat turning over the leaves of her little book, and
            wondering if she did not feel something as Anna did, after Philip would meet her, and
            try to persuade her to become his wife. And while she was thus musing on the past, and
            wondering what the future had in store for her, her sister Ferrell stole softly into the
            room, and walking up behind her peeped over her shoulder and spoke.
          Jennette started, for she did not know of her sister's presence, so absorbed was she in
            her own thoughts. "What is it Ferrell? You frightened me so!"
          "Well, sister mine," began Ferrell, "I have come to ask a great favor of you."
          Jennette was wonderfully surprised, for never in her life had Ferrell come to her
            asking confidence or a favor, for she always seemed to think Jennette greatly  her inferior, and tossed her head in proud disdain at all
            her little heart aches and petty trials as she called them.
          But now the scale had turned. She was in love! Yes, desperately in love,--with her cousin, and she knew she dare not let her father
            know it. Her lover was the son of her father's oldest sister, and had proposed to make
            her his wife,--and she had accepted; and a clandestine marriage was the inevitable way
            by which they must get rid of the objections of the parents.
          Aaron Tyndall was a very worthy, highly educated young man--yet he was her cousin; but
            she thought that was a matter of very little importance. She told Jennette she did not
            see why she need hesitate for the relationship; for there were a great many persons in
            the world who had married their cousins, and had done well.
          Jennette was greatly astonished, and said: "Why Ferrell, he offered me his heart a year
            ago, and I utterly disdained the idea. Why, just think! your cousin your husband. The
            bible forbids even second cousins marrying; and he is father's sister's only son. How
            can you think of such an act? I am astonished at you!"
          "Oh, dear! snapped Ferrell, if you are so easily shocked, I can't see why you have not,
            long since, been mortified to death with that young Hayward. Cousin is wealthy, and an
            only child; while Charlie is poor as a church mouse, with no cultivation of manners, nor
            education to set him off, as Aaron has."


          





          "I will admit that Cousin Aaron has fine talents, and a few thousands, but it is all
            inherited. Charlie is a self-made man, with a great, manly heart, with exalted
            principles, and he is not my cousin, and that's more of it."
          Ferrell was stung to the quick; but she had come to get into Jennette's confidence, and
            knowing her kind heart and determined will, she said: " Well, we will never all see
            alike, Jen; but you know something about how hard it is to be thwarted in a love matter.
            And now I am here to solicit your sympathy, and ask you to keep my secret and do me a
            favor."
          "I will, providing it will not conflict too strongly with conscience."
          " Well, what I have to tell you is this: Cousin and I are going to get married. We do
            not propose to let father know anything about it until we are married and gone."
          "Oh, Ferell! Never do that! I think it will almost kill father and mother to know you
            would do so."
          "Oh, no, Jen, you know old folks rebel, and faint and go on dreadfully sometimes, but
            after the ceremony is said they come around all right, and no trouble whatever." 
          "Yes, but this is something I never would have believed you guilty of--a proud, cold
            hearted girl like yourself. I did not believe you capable of loving so deeply as
            this."
          "Oh, I'm human, Jen, besides, there is money at  stake.
            You are too much for romance, while I am for the real; and money is the reality of which
            life is composed. And now I am going to brother Jerry's to-morrow, to stay with his
            family--they are lonely, you know, and you can tell father I am going to stay two or
            three weeks with Mary, so that she and the children will not be so lonesome. I will get
            ready as soon as I can, and when all things are settled Aaron will come, the ceremony
            will be performed and we will drive here in the night. I will come to your window and
            you will hand out certain articles which I will leave in your keeping. Then I will tell
            you I am married, and you can tell the folks the next day, for I shall be far away by
            that time. We will drive to the city, take the train that night, and be gone before the
            sun rises in the morning. But do not say one word about this to any one, for the day is
            not yet fixed. This is the plan we have agreed upon, so keep still till we come."
          "Oh, Ferrell!" gasped Jennette, "please do not ask me to break the news to our poor
            parents. I know what a dreadful time there will be when they learn what you have done;
            besides, I do not wish to be an accomplice in this act, at all."
          Ferrell knew she must work gently with her sister, but she would rather have slapped
            her and told her she should and must do it, as she had done many times before, in
            smaller matters, but this was too important an affair to take any chances with
            Jennette's self-will, so she said, coaxingly, "Jennette, it can not possibly  bring you harm; and then think, my life, which has always
            been a pleasant one, must be forever blighted." And she even threw her arms about
            Jennette's neck and said: "Jennette, I will do all I can for you and Charlie, and my
            house may be your home until he comes back from the war, when your love may be
            consummated in a wedding under my roof; believe me, I will work for you if you will work
            for me."
          Jennette was touched deeply at this last suggestion, and said, with trembling voice:
            "Ferrell, if you feel your life would be forever blighted without this clandestine
            marriage--and I see no other way, for father never would yield to this--go your way and
            I will never tell. But, Ferrell, if I never marry Charlie Hayward until I steal away
            from home, I will never be his wife."
          " Oh! Jennette, you are foolish, father is so stern and set in his notions. He married
            whom he pleased; so will I!"
          Jennette felt the truth of all she said, but yet, a sense of honor held a tight reign
            over her actions. "I know all that, Ferrell, yet I take a different view of this matter.
            My parents deserve my confidence and love first of all."
          "Well, well, Jennette! you have not said you would break the news to them, and then
            write me what they said about it?"
          "It appears that you are asking a great deal for your first favor. I never would have
            believed you would ever come to me for counsel, or commit to me a mission  of trust; besides my nervous system is completely unstrung,
            and I have all I can bear now; so please excuse me from this last request? You can write
            father a note and tell him all. I shall not, can not, tell him what you ask."
          "Well, Jennette, it would only be sisterly, and I will remember this against you."
          "Ferrell, I can not see why you wish me to break the news, when a few lines from you
            would tell it better than I can."
          "Well, it is getting late, we will have to quit talking for this evening, and to-morrow
            you may feel stronger, Jennette."
          "We will see what to-morrow brings," Jennette replied, and the sisters separated for
            the night.
          Ferrell, outdone by Jennette, could have whipped her, while Jennette was so unsettled
            by all the afternoon had brought about, that she felt nervous and feverish, and throwing
            herself into a chair, she covered her face with her hands and sat thinking until the
            clock struck the hour of midnight.
          "Oh! dear," she said, rising to prepare for bed, "I should have been in bed two hours
            ago; did ever mortal have so much to try their nerves and make them sleepless and
            unhappy, as I do?" It just appears that some one is forever wanting me to do something I
            can not do."
          She knelt by her bedside with a full heart, and as she prayed that God would calm her
            troubled spirit and  give her just what He saw was most
            fitting for her, she became reconciled, and laid down and slept sweetly until morning.
            But with the light of morning came the recollection that Jay Cooper wanted her to train
            her heart to love him, which was also her father's wish --a thing she thought she could
            not do--and sister Ferrell was asking her to take a part in an underhand game with her
            parents. The strain was too much for her weakened system to stand, and she felt the same
            old pain at her heart as for months past.
          She arose, dressed herself and appeared at the breakfast table in a still, thoughtful
            mood. Her father noticed it and thought she was thinking seriously of Cooper, and said,
            "Jennette, would you like to go back to the river, among the old friends, and visit for
            a while?"
          She looked up, brighter than she had appeared for a long time, and said, "Oh, yes
            indeed, father, I feel that I need a change, and I do not know of anything that would
            afford me greater pleasure."
          "Well, you shall go, if you desire."
          "How soon can I be off, mother?" inquired Jennette.
          "In a week or two," she replied.
          "Oh, I am so glad!" cried Jennette.
          Mr. Browning felt that the happiness that beamed from her countenance was worth a great
            deal to him. For he had felt ever since his interview with her on that memorable day, in
            which she almost passed away from him forever, that in some way he had a great deal  to do with her sickness and her long and protracted
            convalescence. He was glad of an opportunity to undo, at least a small portion, of what
            he had done. Jennette was really enthusiastic over the idea of a visit back to the dear
            old home of her childhood and the friends of her early life, before she knew any sorrow.
            She felt that the old river hills would awaken such sweet memories that all gloom would
            be driven away; and she went to work with a will to the task of getting ready, helping
            to make new dresses and the packing and repacking of her trunk. Thus two weeks went by
            on swift wings.
          During this time Ferrell was at her brother's leaving the getting ready all to
            Jennette's own taste, for her sister Minnie never interfered with other people's plans
            and purposes.
          The night before Jennette was to take her departure, there came a tap on her window,
            between the hours of eleven and twelve; she sprang out of bed, dressed hastily, and
            threw open the window, and lo! in the moonlight stood a bride and groom.
          Jennette leaned out of the window and said: "My best wishes, dear cousin and sister!
            yet I hardly hope for happiness from such a union, and under such circumstances."
          Mr. Tindall laughed and said, "Oh, you are just a little too conscientious, Jennette,
            besides you must now say brother instead of cousin."
          She handed Ferrell the parcels she had left in her keeping, saying, "I feel like a
            thief, Ferrell, I can not see how you can do such a terrible thing."


          

          Ferrell laughingly said, "I feel like a bride, and you just inform father to-morrow,
            that I am Mrs. Tindall."
          Saying this, she caught up her bridal robes and turned from the window.
          Jennette says to this day she can never tell how dreadfully she felt that long night,
            for it seemed an eternity until the sun peeped over the eastern horizon, and the family
            began their preparations for breakfast.
          Jennette could not go away without telling her parents all concerning her sister, and
            the part she had taken in the affair, for she felt that it would be deceiving them; so
            when breakfast was over she said to her father: "I wish to speak to you, father,
            privately."
          She led the way to the parlor, and when seated by his side, said, "Father, it seems to
            fall to my lot to do so many hard things. And now I feel so weak under the strain, from
            the excitement and loss of sleep, that I can hardly bear up under what I am going to
            tell you. So be calm, father, and prepare to hear what may wound you deeply."
          "Speak on, Jennette," replied Mr. Browning, "what do you mean?"
          "Well, father, I mean that sister Ferrell is married, and many miles from here this
            morning."
          Mr. Browning caught her hand in much agitation and gasped out the words, "Who,
            Jen?"
          "I must tell you, father, cousin Aaron Tyndall is the man."
          "Oh, Jennette!"


          


          He turned so fearfully pale that she stood by him, stroking his gray hair caressingly,
            and said, "Do not feel so badly, father, he is a cousin, I know, yet a better man could
            not be found."
          "Ah, yes, Jennette, I know! But I feel so humiliated --to think, a sister's son! Why, I have loved him as a child! But he has done me a wrong I
            shall never forget. I shall never recognize him in the light of the relationship he now
            holds. Oh! what shall I do? Jennette, why did you not tell me? You, also, have done a
            great wrong; you have deceived me. No doubt you was acquainted with this matter long
            ago."
          "No! no! father, not until about two weeks ago. She begged so hard for me to say
            nothing about it, that I promised. I was in hopes I would get away before they were
            married, but unfortunately, they were wedded yesterday evening; and last night at
            midnight, they came to my window and told me to tell you this morning that they were
            married and gone."
          Mr. Browning said, "As you have had a hand in this matter, you can now break the news
            to your mother. I can not do it."
          Jennette said, "I knew I would be censured for it all, but I am getting used to
            censure; hence, I shall tell her the best I can, and leave the consequences with God,
            for I have intended no harm to anyone, and begged Ferrell to tell you before she took
            the step; but she would not do it, and has lain the burden upon me, and I shall try and
            do my duty. I could not go away  and leave you to learn all
            this from some one else. I feel that I have not done just right in keeping it from you
            until now, but I hardly knew what to do, as I knew Ferrell was determined to marry Aaron
            at all hazards. But, father, if you feel that I have wilfully wronged you and have not
            treated you as I aught to have done, after the kindness you have shown me in allowing me
            to go on a visit for my health, I will now give up the pleasure of my visit and stay at
            home and try to make amends for the wrong I have committed.
          "No, Jennette, you were never given to deception, and I believe you have acted with as
            much discretion in this matter, as could be expected from one of your age; but Ferrell
            has acted terribly! I feel that we are disgraced, and our proud name has been
            humbled."
          He walked out of the house, leaving her feeling worse than ever. "Now I will go to
            mother and tell her all."
          She broke the news as gently as possible. Mrs. Browning felt the mortification deeply,
            but she bore up under it better than the father. For she said, "He is a good, temperate,
            smart man, if he has acted foolishly in this."
          Jennette felt as if a great weight had been lifted from her shoulders, when they all
            knew it, and could meet and discuss the matter coolly. Yet the whole family reproved
            her, until she was glad to see the last article laid in her trunk, and not sorry to say
            good-bye to home and its inmates for a season, dearly as she loved them.
        

        
        



          CHAPTER VII. JENNETTE'S VISIT AND COMBAT WITH MORGAN.
          
            
              How sweet to walk old paths once more
              Our childish feet have trod.
              Then recollection's broken vase
              Is again in memory placed,
              And we're drawn near to God.
            
          

          The June sun dawned beautifully and brightly on the morning Jennette started on her
            visit. She seemed all excitement and bustle, and she said, while she was nervous and
            anxious to be off, she felt a foreboding of something, she knew not what; but a strange
            presentiment that when she came home again, there would be a great change somewhere. But
            in speaking of this to her father, as they were driving to the railroad station, he told
            her it was only a whim of hers, as she was not strong, and the getting ready and the
            excitement of going was having its effect upon her nervous system; and that when she got
            to the end of her journey she must rest, and walk out mornings in the open air upon the
            old hills where she had often gathered the wild flowers of spring and whiled away the
            time with her friend Dolph.
          She explained to her father how deeply she loved the 
            
              MORGAN'S RAID INTO INDIANA.
            
            
             tender memories of those happy days, and said, "Why do I
            not feel happy as I did then, father?"
          "Oh!" he replied, "you are a young lady now, and have allowed other things to come
            between you and real happiness."
          She understood at once what he meant by the "other things" that had come between her
            and real happiness, and turned the subject by saying: "If anything happens to brother
            Jerry while I am absent-- I mean if he should be wounded and taken to the hospital, or
            through sickness get there, tell me father, can I go to him? You know how he always said
            my hands would soothe his headache when no one's else could; and the water I brought to
            him when he was sick, always tasted better than from the hand of any other; and you see
            I could do more for him than any one else."
          Her father laughed and said, "Why Jennette, do you not know that was all imagination in
            your brother?"
          "Oh, well, father, say it was imagination, it has a great deal to do with one's
            recovery, sometimes."
          "I believe that, too, Jennette; yet I could not think of you, frail as you are, going
            to a southern hospital, and becoming exposed to all the contagious diseases that
            frequent such places. But here we are at the station now, and only ten minutes till
            train time; so I will get your ticket, and you must not think any more about visiting
            southern hospitals; but cheer up, and come home with the roses on your cheeks, and laugh
            the happy, ringing laugh of the days before the war." 

          

          "I will try, father;" she said, while her blue eyes swam with tears. "Here is the
            train, and I must say good-bye."
          She threw her arms about his neck, and he said: "Now my little gazelle, do not cry; but
            go, and come back when you get homesick. We will be lonely without you, but we want you
            to go for your own good; cheer up now, and get well."
          He seated her in a comfortable seat and hurried off the car, while she waved her
            handkerchief as long as she could see him.
          He went home feeling lonely, and when he looked around everything seemed to speak a sad
            language to his heart; for he said, "I miss my little girl more than anything I ever let
            go out of my home."
          Mrs. Browning was one of those quiet, easy people, who always tried to make the best of
            everything; and she said, "Jennette has gone for a visit, only, and I feel that she will
            come back soon and be herself again; therefore I do not intend to miss her, more than I
            can help."
          Her sister Minnie was a very reserved but good-hearted kind of a person who looked on
            such matters from a purely philosophical standpoint. She was like her mother, whilst
            Jennette was like her father in every respect except that she was somewhat more yielding
            in her nature.
          While the old home seemed so gloomy, Jennette was flying as fast as the Ligntning
            Express could carry her  toward her destination. She
            changed cars at Indianapolis, after waiting an hour, then started for Vevay, on the
            Ohio. Nearing the spot she began to realize how familiar everything looked; and said to
            herself: "Well, time has not been plying such busy fingers in making changes, as it has
            in northern Indiana." And when she rounded the hill that brought the river into full
            view, her heart leaped for joy at the sight.
          Oh, the memories that began to walk up and down the halls of recollection. She
            remembered how often she had rowed the boat, and caught fish--and the mud pies too, she
            had mixed with little brown hands on the brink of the river, and by the time the train
            pulled into the depot, she was wild with joy at the thought of seeing friends whom she
            knew awaited her coming, and the prospects of boat-riding and hill-climbing with her old
            playmates, who had grown taller, but in heart were children still. The excitement had
            brought the glow to her cheeks and eyes, and the many who met her said she looked very
            delicate, but had a healthy color. They had supposed by her father's letters they would
            see quite an invalid.
          "Oh!" she said, "I am so overjoyed at seeing you all that the color has returned to my
            cheeks, I presume."
          How many hands there were to shake and lips to kiss in the next few weeks! Everybody
            was pleased to see Jennette. She had been a favorite with every one, from the peasant to
            the wealthiest citizens--and was kindly welcomed by all.


          

          The first few days were spent in hunting up old playmates. She made strict inquiries as
            to Adolphus; but was informed that shortly after the war broke out, his parents had
            moved to Kentucky, where they could more openly rebel against the north.
          Jennette was glad she was not permitted to see him, for the thought of a traitor struck
            terror to her heart; yet, she was anxious to visit all the spots where he and she had
            played--and especially did she want to float in a little boat down the same place in the
            river where her life had been so miraculously saved by Charlie Hayward. She was so
            desirous of seeing the spot where he had held her in his arms, and where she first
            opened her eyes upon him, and where her life had so strangly begun with romantic
            interest, that she never ceased teasing her aunt to let her go with a party on an
            excursion.
          But her father had written his sister not to let her go on the water,--she had so
            narrowly escaped once, that he did not want a repetition of it; therefore, it was a long
            time before she obtained permission from her aunt to join a party that had been waiting
            the old lady's consent, and who were now ready and off in a moment for the water.
          They started from the same place, and their boat was tied to the same tree to which
            Dolph's boat was tied on the morning she and Dolph had started fishing, five years ago
            that month. She could not help thinking of the great change that had come over her in
            the few  years gone by. And, as they chatted gaily,
            speaking of the war, and the many loved ones, who might have been with them that day,
            she thought of her speech to Dolph, and how she declared she would be a politician and a
            preacher, too, when she was a woman. "Oh! " she said to herself, "What different
            opinions womanhood brings."
          When they passed the spot where Charlie had rescued her, she looked long and
            lingeringly and wished she had gone down and never been found by any one, for she said :
            "What is life when the sunshine is taken out of it ?"
          She had begun to feel the healthy blood course through her veins once more, and she
            joined in the mirth of the party as best she could, with sad memories gnawing at her
            heart. All at once she remembered the old witch that had told Dolph's and her own
            fortune and she felt determined to find her again; so she told the story to the young
            folks and said : "Let's try her again; what say you ?" and as it has ever been the
            disposition of the human heart to know something of the future, they all joined in
            saying, "Capital! We will go over the hill and find her."
          So landing at the same place where she and Dolph had landed before, they made their way
            to the gipsy's hut and, fortunately, found her at home--not looking a day older,
            Jennette said, than when she last saw her.
          As they approached her, one by one, she told their fortunes. At last came Jennette's
            turn, and when the  old gipsy asked her to cut the cards,
            she did it with a nervous hand and the black eyes of the woman looked up sharply and
            quick as she said: "I have told your fortune before! You are the same girl who came to
            me five years ago in this month, your little companion with you. I remember well the
            morning. I told you what was shortly to come to pass. "Did it take place?" she asked,
            nodding to Jennette.
          "Why, yes, one thing you told was to befal me took place before I got home that day,
            and that was that my life was soon to be in peril and that I should be rescued by one
            whom I should never forget."
          "Ah! just so, child! and can you forget him, or have you forgotten him an hour since
            that morning ?"
          Jennette trembled from head to foot and shook her head.
          "I thought not," the old woman said. "But, my dear child, you have seen much heart
            trouble, since that day, for one so young; yet, you have not experienced anything yet to
            compare with what you will have to go through; for, while you love one
              man, your parents love another for you, and he will be the one
            that will blast your whole life ; and while you might be a star in the literary world,
            you will be hated by enemies, shunned by friends who now love you--and all for the sake
            of that wretch whom you will train your heart to partially love. Soon you will be called
            upon to mourn the loss of friends--twice in one year will death rob you of those your
            heart holds dear."


          

          Jennette pressed her hand to her heart and said, '0, please say no more, I cannot bear
            it !" and as she turned to go, the gipsy said, "I am an old woman, but years from now we
            will meet again many miles from this place, and I will tell you then whom you will
            marry. I could tell you much more, but, lady, perhaps I had better not, as you do not
            look strong, and yours is a sad future."
          "No, no!" said Jennette, waving her off with her hand, "I can bear no more."
          Her cousin Angella put her arm about Jennette's waist and said : "Why Jennette, why do
            you allow the words of that old crone to affect you so ? She can know nothing; it is all
            guess work."
          "Well," replied Jennette, "she somehow holds a subtle power over me; and before, when I
            met her, I so soon realized the truth of her predictions that I feel now that all she
            tells me must be true! And just to think, I am so soon to meet with
            loss of friends by death. Oh! who can it be ? Brother Jerry, I fear, is one of
            them."
          But at this, the whole party joined in laughing at her, yet it did not remove the
            terror that had crept into her heart, nor could she shake off the thought that so much
            trouble awaited her in the future.
          The party was gay, and a ride on the water soon put an end to her reflections, for the
            time being, and they rowed home safely and merrily.
          Jennette found three letters awaiting her : one from  her
            father, one from brother Jerry and the other from Jay Cooper. She hastily tore open her
            father's letter, to find out how all the dear ones at home were; then brother Jerry's.
            He wrote: "Jennette, my lungs are hurting me badly. How I wish I could lay my head on my
            little sister's lap and let her rub out the pain with her loving little hands."
          It was a very tender epistle and one that she has kept until now, and although yellow
            with age, it is very dear to her. She little dreamed that would prove to be the last
            letter his loving hand would ever pen to her. She holds it now as his last token of love
            to her.
          Cooper's letter came next, and as she opened it, a shudder ran through her, for she
            thought of the gipsy's prophecy. But when she read the words of pathetic tenderness and
            his glowing account of a battle he had just gone through, she thought herself an unkind,
            unappreciative woman not to love such a man as that ; yet she could not tell why, but
            Hayward seemed to look into her eyes with the same trusting confidence and say : "I do
            not believe you will ever forget me or love: another."
          "Oh," she said, "could I but learn to forget ! Then turning to Jerry's letter, she wept
            and kissed the lines he had traced to her over and over, and said : "Poor dear brother,
            no love like a brother's love."
          Her aunt was busy laying the cloth for tea, but stopped and said: "Jennette, they say
            Morgan is making his way to Indiana; we cannot tell how soon we  may fall into his hands."
           Quick as thought, Jennette was herself once more She stood erect, tall and very
            stately; then said: "Let him come, auntie; I shall never run nor be driven an inch by
            Morgan's men !"
          Her aunt laughed and said : "Why Jennette, I never saw you so aroused, but what could
            we do with such an outlaw as he is ?"
           "I would stand my ground," replied Jennette.
          Cousin Angella clapped her hands and said: "O Jennette, I hope he'll pass this way; I
            would like to see you scare the whole set of them to death !"
          "I would like to be armed," she replied, "I want to protect myself and your property,
            auntie."
          Her uncle laughed until his fat sides fairly shook, and told her he would get her a
            pistol or a cannon, whichever she could handle the more easily. She was excited over
            Morgan's coming and it was the topic of conversation all the evening. When bed time
            came, her uncle told her to go to bed, and if Morgan came he would let her know.
          She and her cousin Angella were up by daylight and still talking of Morgan. After
            breakfast Jennette proposed a ramble in the woods. Her auht said she felt as if they
            ought to stay near home, for fear of a raid, and her uncle went to town to hear the
            news. About ten o'clock he came riding home, dreadfully excited, and said, "Morgan is
            coming this way--will be down on us in an hour." 

          





          Angella turned pale, but Jennette flushed crimson, while her eyes sparkled with a
            revengeful fire. "Let him come," she said, "I repeat what I said last night." Her uncle
            turned the horses and his fat cattle out of the fields, for fear of their slaughter, and
            awaited Morgan's coming.
          At a little before twelve o'clock, they heard the sound of clattering hoofs,--on, on,
            they came like mad men. The house of Joseph Nelson, Jennette's uncle, lay in a beautiful
            open valley. They halted when they came to the foot of the hill and looking around
            viewed the prospect before them. There was a field of oats well shocked up, and Morgan
            said : "Halt here, my braves, we will feed our horses and get dinner in yonder farm
            house."
          They alighted and made a raid on the oats field, destroying the whole of it in a few
            moments; then, marching straight to the house, they demanded dinner. Morgan said : "
            Here, you weak-kneed Yanks, stir yourselves around and cook dinner for my men."
          Mrs. Nelson cooly and deliberately told them she had never cooked a meal for a rebel
            and never would.
          He struck at her with the heavy end of a large riding whip, but she stepped back and
            said, "I never will!" He looked a little puzzled, but advanced a step
            toward her, when Jennette sprang at him with the fury of a tigress and caught his arm,
            and snatching the whip with the other hand, struck him over the head and ears so
            furiously that he had no time to think before he was \ pretty well used up.


          

          The men roared with laughter and said: "I'll bet she has old Virginia blood in her
            veins, by Jove !" She was wildly excited and her aunt tried to get her composed, but she
            defied the whole army and told them she would die, but never cook a
            meal for a rebel.
          There was whispering among them, for they did not know what was best to do with a
            defiant little Yankee girl. Morgan stood looking at her for some minutes, then said :
            "You'll get dinner now, miss, for your insult to me." He caught her arm, but she quickly
            gave him another smart blow over the head with the whip, when a young man stepped up and
            said: "Colonel, please let go of this girl !" and, holding out his hand, he said :
            "Jennette, do we meet again ?"
          She dropped the whip and stood looking at the bloated, dirty looking creature before
            her, and at last said: "Dolph! Is this Dolph ?"
          "It is, Jennette."
          She said: "Well, I shall not shake hands with you, but I want you to take these men
            away, for I shall never get dinner for them."
          Dolph spoke to Colonel Morgan and said : "Colonel, I have been a friend to you; you
            promised not to forget it; so, now, in memory of what I've done for you, please let us
            pass on. I know this young lady; she and I have played together in childhood and I know
            she will do just as she says; she will die before she will get us a
            meal of victuals."
          "That I will," replied Jennette, "but, Dolph, little as  I
            esteem you now, I want to thank you for this gallant act, Mr. Farrar."
          Morgan said: "Farrar, I promised you once that I would grant you a favor some time, if
            you would serve me then; so, as this is the first you have asked of
            me, I am in duty bound to grant it." Turning to Jennette, he said, "Little lady, you
            will not always get off this easy, let me tell you, for if you ever cross my path again,
            I will show no mercy."
          Jennette said haughtily: "I cross no rebel outlaw's path, and they shall not cross mine
            !"
          Dolph laughed and said : "The same Jennette yesterday, to-day and forever. Will you not
            bid me good-bye now, Jennette ? "
          "Remember the gipsy's prophecy," said she, "a blackened and wasted life shall be yours.
            I realize it now, Dolph, for the destroyer of all that is good has hold of you."
          "I know it, Jennette, but it is too late; I am a ruined man and I intend to sell my
            life as dearly as possible. But remember, I saved you from a fate, just now, perhaps
            worse than death."
          The men had moved toward their horses and left Jennette and Dolph talking. Jennette
            said : "Dolph, I never forget a kindness and I shall remember this one."
        

        

        


           CHAPTER VIII. THE GREAT SORROW AND THE UNFORTUNATE DRIVE.

          
            
              'Tis sweet to be remembered
              With life's last lingering breath,
              The aged that pass away from earth,
              Leaving the boon of lowly worth,
              Unclouds the hour of death.
            
          

          When Morgan and his men galloped away, Jennette stood on the old-fashioned porch of her
            uncle's farmhouse, gazing after them with a peculiar light in her blue eyes. "What is
            it, cousin?" ventured timid Angella, encircling Jennette's waist with her right arm.
            "Have you scared them all away?" she said, laughing a little hysterically, for she had
            been very mute while Jennette was trying what virtue there was in the whip. But now she
            felt like laughing at the oddity of the occurrence. "Jen, I guess Morgan never met quite
            so much pluck in dresses before."
          "I guess he'll have sore ears for the next week to come," replied Jennette. "Oh! how I
            wish I could have tied him to one of those shade trees and whipped him until he would
            have sworn allegiance to the United States."
          "Well," said her aunt, hearing the conversation,  "I'm
            afraid his oath would not have amounted to much, but I think, Jennette, you have done a
            commendable act, and I shall always feel proud of you."
          "No auntie do not feel proud of that little drubbing I gave him; but wait, should I
            ever meet him again and he dare lay his rebel hands on me, he shall die for it."
          "Oh! Jen," said Angella, "you would feel badly after you had killed even Morgan. I know
            your kind heart better than you do. But say! How came you to recognize that Dolph
            Farrer? I should never have guessed that horrid looking creature to be him, although I
            knew him well, when he was a child."
          "Because I could never have forgotten those lazy-looking, good-natured eyes," replied
            Jennette, "they have a kind look about them that seems to say: 'I'm not so bad as I seem
            to be.' Poor Dolph, how I loved him, as a playmate; and while he was waggish and
            good-natured, I was self-willed and impulsive, and I remember I controlled him in almost
            everything. And now, although he is a rebel, I feel that he did me a kindness to-day I
            shall never forget."
          Just then her uncle came in and said, "Jennette, I shall have to keep you with me, I
            guess, to guard my property. I tell you I must let the boys in blue know how bravely you
            defend those who are left at home."
          She laughed and said, "Dear uncle, I have one desire greater than another, and that is
            to bring about, in some way, a speedy termination of this cruel war! My poor  brother is sick and hardly able for duty, and his lungs are
            so weak I feel that if he remains in the field much longer he will die, away from home
            and friends. While there are others I feel so solicitous for, that I fain would kill
            every rebel on American soil."
          " You are a brave little girl, and I shall write your father, what a feat you have
            performed, to-day, upon the person of the old raider, Morgan; but I shall now go down to
            the city again and see how the community has fared under him and his men, as they passed
            through."
          Jennette said, "Wait till after dinner, uncle! We will have dinner now," she playfully
            said,"and I'll get it too."
          Her aunt declared she might, for she felt too weak, somehow, ever since Morgan made a
            pass at her, to think of cooking.
          "Well," laughed Jennette, "I somehow, feel stronger ever since I jerked the whip out of
            his hands, and took the starch out of his ears."
          Angella laughed at his having to go off with wilted ears, and declared she felt
            considerable better herself, now that he was gone; she thought she should enjoy her
            dinner better without his presence than with it, and said she knew she could cook better
            without his advice.
          So laughing and chatting gaily over the event of the day they both went to work with a
            will, and soon had a smoking dinner on the table, which they all declared they relished
            much better than if they had fed Morgan and his men.


          





          Mr. Nelson was anxious to go to town, and so made haste to start, while Jennette and
            Angella took a walk down by the riverside. They put on their broad brimmed hats and took
            their sketch books, agreeing to both sketch the same object. Seating themselves a few
            feet apart they sat perfectly silent for half an hour, seemingly intent upon what they
            were doing, when Jennette broke the silence by saying, "Cousin, I can't sketch to-day,
            my mind is too much occupied with other things. The object I am sketching takes as many
            shapes as my thoughts have variations; and lo! the beautiful bill which I see you have
            drawn so nicely, is upon my paper a forlorn and desolate looking thing--blending well
            with the condition of my mind and heart."
          Angella looked up somewhat surprised at the sadness of Jennette's tone, when she said,
            abruptly, "Angella, did you ever have a lover?"
          "Why, what a funny question, Jennette."
          " Oh! I don't know that it is--I think all girls of our age have some one they love
            better than another."
          " Well, yes," said Angella, blushing somewhat at the frankness of her own speech, "I
            have one whom I admire most of all men, he is a soldier in the 39th."
          "Oh! a soldier, then?"
          "Yes, and a brave one, too!"
          " Well, that's good, I like all soldiers; but most of all do I love
            the one that rescued me from the waters of this dear old river."
          "Why, Jennette, he is so much your senior."


          

          "I know he is several years older than myself, but I feel as if I was as much of a
            child as the day he carried me home in his arms; and then he was so handsome and
            manly-looking, and his words are so tender to me, that I feel I could lean on him for
            protection and be so safe under the shadow of his great manly heart"
          "Why, Jen, you grow romantic, talking about him."
          "Well, it seems to be a real romance from the beginning, with us. Father does not like
            him at all; and has forbidden my writing to him." Here she broke down and cried like a
            child.
          "Ah!" said kind-hearted Angella, "that's too bad! but indeed I would not ask him, if I
            wanted to write, I'd write, no thanks to anyone."
          " Yes, but I promised him I would never write again."
           "But," says Angella, "you are going to write now;" and drawing a sheet of paper from
            her portfolio, she said: " Here now, just send that poor fellow a letter."
          "Oh!" said Jennette, with a shudder, "how dare I do a thing I promised not to do,
            Angie?"
          "Why, easily enough! just let him know you are true, and love him still,--even if you
            have been denied the privilege of writing,--and your father will be none the wiser."
           The temptation was too great. Jennette took the paper and eagerly grasped the pencil,
            and with a nervous hand wrote the following lines: 
            
              
                

                  DEAR CHARLIE :
                  Oh? how much I want to say on this small sheet of paper. I am sitting by the
                    old river from which you rescued me a poor, little, half drowned girl, five
                    years ago; and while the waters flow on so calmly at my feet, I feel the turbid
                    waters of my soul all in commotion.
                  Oh! Charlie! Charlie, how I have longed to write to you, and how much I have
                    suffered, for the love my heart has given you, none but angels can ever tell;
                    for having no sympathizers, I have suffered silently and alone, not daring to
                    breathe your name, for fear of a storm of wrath. I have promised my father I
                    would try to forget you: but when God placed the bow in the clouds He said He
                    did it in order that he might look upon it and remember. So, as long as this
                    dear old river flows, I shall remember you, the one above all
                    others, to me; and while memory lingers in my brain, there is ever one little
                    vase filled with the flowers of love, and they shall be watered daily by the
                    tears that fill sorrow's cup, and kept green in the garden of my heart forever,
                    truly, for thee.
                  And now that I am far from home, and the old river is singing back to me the
                    love song that Eve learned in the Eden home--it touches my heart and awakens a
                    feeling in my soul, that no other sound can ever reach; and my prayer goes up to
                    the great and good God, who formed our hearts to love, and who did so
                    wonderfully bring us together and knit our hearts in one. May He forgive this
                    erring step I have taken to steal my way to you, through the medium of paper,
                    pen and ink.
                  Now, Charlie, while you are on the battle field, facing the outward foe,
                    remember I am fighting a foe within my heart, in the shape of a rebellious
                    spirit. How my heart longs to be unfettered and free to love just whom I choose,
                    yet I know I dare not.
                  So now, if you never hear from me again, or if I should marry Jay Cooper, as
                    father desires, remember my heart is unalterably
                      yours.
                  Write me here. I cannot tell how long I may stay, but hold  myself in readiness to go home at any moment; for by brother is not
                    well, and I live trying to be prepared for the worst at all times. And if you
                    should die, or get killed, oh! I ask myself the question, What should I do? but
                    I am not able to say, only this: my love will not die with you, but only go out
                    with my own life.
                  
                     Yours in truth,
                     JENNETTE .
                  

                
              
            




          Her cheeks were glowing and her eyes sparkled as she said, "There Angie, you can read
            for yourself."
          Angella took the letter and was much impressed with its deep meaning and heart-touching
            sentences. She looked at Jennette and said, firmly, "I never would marry another man
            while my heart so truly clung to this one. Jen, do you know you are doing yourself a
            great wrong?"
          "Oh! it looks very strange to you, I know, and will seem wilfully cruel to Charlie;
            yet, I can not be deceptive with father, or break my vows with him. I know sooner or
            later, I shall be Jay Cooper's wife. I feel that fate has decreed it so."
          So saying, she arose to her feet and said, "Let us be going back home, Angella; for I
            feel a presentiment of some terrible evil or something, I can not understand what. Yet
            perhaps it is all because I have written the letter, I promised not to write."



          They locked arms and walked homeward in the beautiful afternoon sunshine, while Angella
            assured her that there need be no cause for fear; for if she was to be called home
            suddenly, she would send the answer to Charlie's letter in hers, and said, "you could be
            smart,  and hide it away, and no one would ever know the
            envelope contained two letters."
          But on approaching the house they saw Mr. Nelson walking the porch as if agitated over
            something. When he saw the girls, he walked rapidly toward them.
          Jennette said, " He has bad news for me, I feel it in my heart."
          Approaching them he took from his coat pocket a telegram, and handed it to
            Jennette.
          She felt her strength giving way at the sight of it; but she read: "Jennette, come home
            on first train, Jerry is mortally wounded; fell in the battle at Red River."
          She threw up her hands; they caught her, and Uncle Nelson held her in his arms while
            Angella ran for water. She came to and gasped, "Give me my hat, let me go home."
          She seemed like one in a dream, for as she went to the house she walked like a
            somnambulist, and appeared to realize nothing.
          Her kind relatives got all her things in readiness to be off on the 6:40 train. She sat
            in so much of a stupor that they concluded Angella must go with her to her home. They
            did not think it was safe to let her go alone, for her mind seemed to wander. When
            spoken to, she answered in broken, disconnected sentences.
          Accordingly Angella threw her wardrobe together hurriedly, and prepared to conduct her
            poor, heartbroken cousin to her grief-stricken home--the light of  the old home had gone out and they sat in darkness, feeling that to see
            Jennette would be as hard to bear, as to look upon the face of the dead.
          They arrived home at 8 o'clock next morning. Jennette met the grieved ones with such a
            pale face and wild look out of her eyes, that her father clasped her in his arms and
            said: " Oh my little Jennette! you have come home under sad circumstances, I know; but
            do not feel so terribly, your brother was still living yesterday, and we know not but
            that the One who can raise the dead, will yet touch his body with His healing power.
          "Oh! father, father, cried Jennette, let me go to him! please let me go, do! I can save
            him, I know I can, if I can but reach him; and she walked the floor with such an awful
            pallor upon her face, that her father said: "She must cry, for there
            is no relief for her, but tears."
          Her mother was so overcome by the news of her son's lamentable condition, that she
            could say or do nothing for poor Jennette's relief.
          Her father said, "Jennette, look here, you must calm yourself!" for he knew something
            must break the spell with her, to start the tears, or change the current of her mind, or
            she would become a maniac, so terribly was she wrought up by the news concerning her
            idolized brother. He said to her, "If you should start south, you could never get there
            in your present condition. Do try to think. You must remember there are other hearts
            that hold him even more dear than yourself."


          


          She waved him off, and said, "No, no, a thousand times, no! I know he has a wife, and
            children; but I loved him long before they ever knew him, and he is all the world to me.
            Oh! poor, poor, dying brother; away from home and I can not give him water, nor bathe
            his fevered brow!"
          At this she broke out in such awful lamentations, the whole family became greatly
            alarmed at her terrible heart-breaking cries. Dr. Arlington was called to administer an
            opiate to quiet her nerves, and he came in haste, bringing Flora with him.
          Jennette threw her arms around Flora's neck and sank exhausted on her breast, who in
            return shed tears of the tenderest sympathy; for she had a brother somewhere on the
            battlefield and did not know how soon tidings of a like fate might reach her ears.
          Dr. Arlington gave Jennette something to quiet her, so she soon became calm, and said,
            "I will try to be prepared for the next telegram." It came before they were done
            talking, bearing these words: "Jerry Browning is no more; his spirit has gone to its
            God. We will keep the body until called for."
          Jennette said, "Oh! Father in heaven help poor, unworthy me to bear this, for my
            strength is gone. I only trust for help in Thee."
          Those were terrible days; just such as every sister, wife and mother must look back
            upon with a shudder.
          The grief-stricken father sent a man to Memphis, Tennessee, to bring home to those who
            loved him so  much, the clay cold form that once held the
            happy, congenial spirit of a fond, affectionate husband, father, brother, son, and a
            brave and noble lieutenant of the 89th Indiana Volunteers.
          He was brought to his father's house--his wife and children were there. The father
            said, "Let us all spend our last day and night with his remains, in the dear old home he
            loved so well."
          Jennette fainted twice before she could nerve herself to look upon his dead face. And
            when at last she knelt beside his silent form, and saw the dear cold lips that always
            had a kiss and a welcome for her, she offered up such a prayer as heaven alone can
            describe. Angels must have wept that day, to see the stricken heart of a frail sister,
            all bowed down with grief, too deep for expression; while a loving wife, and children,
            parents and friends, blended their tears in one common grief.
          When the funeral ceremonies were over, and the world seemed to glide along as
            before--just as it always does when we lay in its cold arms our loved ones-- Jennette
            felt that while she lived, she would never be happy again. Yet, she said, "I am no
            better than others, and there are thousands of hearts to-day, all over the north,
            suffering perhaps as keenly as myself."
          She could not help repeating the beautiful lines of Dr. Watts: Come mingle tears with
            me, And drown your little streams of grief In my unbounded sea.
          Her father told her she must walk out every day and  make
            calls, and try and forget as much as possible, her troubles; for he saw she was wasting
            again to a mere skeleton.
          Each day she took a book and sought the grove--and that book was the bible. She said: "
            Earth has lost its charms for me, and heaven has gained a fast hold on my heart."
          She had ever made the bible a study. From a child she had read and committed to memory
            the beautiful psalms of David, and was always trying to search out their mysteries.
          But now, at this early age in life, she felt that she had experienced so much trouble
            and had always tried so hard to do right, that she began at times to doubt. "Yet," she
            said, "if heaven is a myth, where, Oh! where can I find shelter from the storms of life
            ? Then she would read again and again the promise : "And there remaineth, therefore, a
            rest for the people of God."
          She would query to herself: "Why do the good, who have the promises, suffer so much in
            this life ?"
          One day, in her rambles, she said: "I will go and see Uncle Joe, once more. I do not
            think father would care now if I should stop and have just a short conversation with
            him." So she eagerly wended her way toward the house that contained her best earthly
            friend.
          Never were two persons more delighted. Jennette, though a young lady, was every whit a
            child in heart. She threw her arms around the poor old man's neck, imprinting a kiss
            upon his withered cheek, while he  cried like a boy. He
            said : "Oh ! Jennette, I am riddy to die now, for I hev seen yer face once more, honey.
            But, law, child, it's not the face it once was, deary; the roses hev all left yer
            cheeks, and Uncle Joe is afeared ye'll niver git them back agin. Hev you heerd from
            Charlie Hayward lately ?"
          "Oh ! Uncle Joe, I never hear any more ! Father, you know, forbids me writing, and I
              must let him go."
          "Well, honey, I'm sorry for ye; but I got a letter a gude while ago, and he said to
            tell ye he got the little passel ye sent him in the big box that the ladies sent to his
            company, and that yer letter let him know ye was as ever, his little lovin' Jennette;
            and he said, too, you would niver know how much gude that little passel, made by yer own
            hands, and that letter had done him."
          Jennette clapped her hands for joy, while she said : "Uncle Joe, I had begun to think
            some things I had not believed once I ever could have thought, and that is, that God was
            slack in giving what we ask, when he has promised to do so; and I had actually begun to
            doubt His care for me, and that He heard and answered prayer. But you see now, I know He
            directed that little bundle and placed it in dear Charlie's hands ; for I did so
            sincerely ask him to do so. Oh! that I might never doubt again, Uncle Joe."
          "Poor, blessed lamb, don't doubt God. He took my wife and baby from me, but He'll give
            them back again --in that world where there is no death, and where old Joe is goin',
            too, before long, honey. 

          






          "Oh! Uncle Joe, do not talk about dying, for death is so terrible. Then I want you to
            just live always, and be Uncle Joe, for me."
          "Ah," said he, patting her flaxen head, "I hiv been livin alone so long, honey, and
            been pinen for ye, but ye niver come, and I jist felt myself grow older and older.
            Jennette, darlint, I am seventy-six years old, child, and sometimes I think I hear the
            angels calling me--in the dark hours of the night."
          "Oh, no, no! Uncle Joe, its your imagination."
          "Well, honey, don't let it trouble ye, mebby it is. But, Jennette, when I die I want to
            will you all I've got. Now don't laugh, deary, ye think old Joe has not been thinkin of
            his little girl all these years, do ye, Jennette? Yer, folks call Hayward a poor man,
            and say he can not support a wife. Ye see that great oak tree yonder, jist outside the
            fence?"
          "Yes, Uncle Joe."
          " Well, now, honey, I've saved some chink in my life, --and its all for you--and buried
            it beneath the roots of that old oak; but I niver want ye to touch it till ye'r Charlie
            Hayward's wife."
          "Oh Uncle Joe! Do not do that. Use your money. I shall never be Charlie Hayward's wife,
            for I shall never marry any man against father's will. I feel that fate has bound me to
            Jay Cooper."
          "Well, well, child, if ye let him step between ye and real happiness, jist let the box
            lay where it is."
          "I will," replied Jennette, "and now, Uncle Joe, I  must
            be going, for cousin Angella is at our house and I have acted very unkindly in coming
            away without her; but I felt as though I wanted a few hours alone with you, for, Uncle
            Joe, it seems like an eternity since we last met."
          "Yes, honey, I feel, too, as if it had been a dreadful while. But now I am riddy for
            the summons, since I've seen ye. I jist lived in the hope I would get to see ye before I
            was called away, for I wanted to tell ye about the box, and then my will would be made,
            and all would be riddy."
          Jennette put her arms lovingly around the old man's neck, and said, "Please, Uncle Joe,
            don't talk about dying, for, oh! I can not bear death."
          He felt her shudder, and said, "There, there, dearie, now go home and I'll live as long
            as the Lord will let me, and try to be content, if I am, oh, so lonely! But honey,
            remember it's Hayward that must raise that box, with his own hands, and use the money
            for the little girl I've saved it for. That's to pay him for saving yer life for me,
            dear. What would old Joe have done without ye, ye dear lamb?"
          Jennette turned her footsteps homeward with a great lump of something in her throat,
            and she kept saying : "Poor old man--so lonely, while I have father, mother, sisters--"
            but when she could not say brother, she wept and said : "Ah! no, no, poor brother, I
            wish I had gone with you to your narrow home. Oh! heaven; oh! angels! could I but open
            the pearly gates and breathe  the breath of the immortal
            and live with Jerry forever! But alas ! I must still this throbbing heart and teach it
            to be patient."
          She walked briskly home, to find Angella waiting and looking for her at the gate. For
            the first time she thought of Cooper's ponies, and thought how nice it would be to take
            her patient cousin out riding; and when she met her she said : "Dear Cousin, I have
            acted naughtily this morning, stealing away from you; now let me make atonement by
            taking you out driving with Jay Cooper's ponies. He told me to use them all the time he
            was gone; but I have been away, and have had so many things to trouble me, I have not
            even thought of them, before."
           "Well, I should enjoy the drive; but are they safe for us to handle ? "
          "Oh, they are gay; but he assured me they were perfectly safe to handle; but I will ask
            father what I shall do about it."
          So she ran in search of him and made known her desire to drive the ponies. Her father
            was pleased to hear that she had remembered the kind offer of Mr. Cooper, and said he
            rather thought she could drive them, by being very attentive to what she was doing, but
            said: "Remember, you are not driving every day as you once were; your tomboy days are
            over, and you will find it does not come so natural to handle the lines now."
          "Oh! father, I shall always be a tomboy; I never  shall
            feel as if I was a woman; I shall be glad to be called a tomboy, always."
          "Come, Angella. let's get the boy that takes care of the ponies, to drive them to the
            gate for us ;" and away they went, Jennette forgetting for the time her trouble. She was
            always in her highest spirits, when trying to handle some wild colt or fiery horse. She
            said she loved to see anything have life and ambition.
          Soon the prancing horses were at the gate. The girls wore a happy look, saying they
            were going to drive, now, and get the benefit of the lovely weather and take advantage
            of the long rest the ponies had been having.
          Mr. Browning held them until they were seated, and with many words of caution, gave
            them the lines.
           They darted off like an Indian arrow and it was all Jennette could do to hold them.
            She found that the farther they went the faster their gait, and found, too, her strength
            not equal to the task; so she asked Angella to take the lines.
          As she did so, she said, " There is the house of old Uncle Joe Phelps." But, making the
            change of the lines frightened the ponies, and they made a great bound, throwing
            Jennette across the dashboard. She, however, managed to regain her position without
            injury, but this, gave the animals another fright, and they flew as if mad.
          Uncle Joe was standing near the roadside and took in the situation at once. Seeing the
            danger of the  much loved Jennette, he threw himself in
            front of the horses, catching at the bridles, but he was too old and feeble to hold such
            fiery steeds and they soon had him under their feet. Jennette screamed so fearfully that
            a farmer, near by in a field, ran as quickly as possible to the rescue. But she had
            sprung out by this time and had managed to hold the frightened animals until the
            gentleman could get there, lamenting piteously, for she knew poor old Joe was seriously,
            if not fatally hurt.
          As soon as the gentleman caught the bits, Angella, who was a thoughtful girl and had
            sat quietly holding the lines through it all, now jumped out of the carriage and she and
            Jennette pulled poor, old, faithful Joe from under the wheels, Jennette ran for water to
            wash his bloody face. They found him breathing but unconscious. Jennette said to the man
            who was holding the horses: "Oh! please sir, take him into his hut, and then get into
            the carriage and go for father and the physician, while we attend to him."
          They carried him into the house and laid him on the bed, and the gentleman went to do
            Jennette's bidding; while she got warm water, bathed his throbbing temples and did all
            she could think of, calling him all the pet names she had ever given him from childhood.
            But he only moaned, while she sobbed as if her heart would break.
          Dr. Arlington, with Flora accompanying him, and Mr. Browning, soon made their
            appearance. The doctor  made a thorough examination, then
            shook his head and said, "Its all over with the old man, his skull is fractured and his
            hip bone broken; so he can not last but a little while."
          Flora mingled her sorrows with those of Jennette and Angie, for she, too, had learned
            to love the kind old man, whom she had so often visited with Jennette.
           Looking around the lonely room, Jennette exclaimed : "Poor dear, dear Uncle Joe, to
            think you must die in this miserable place !"
          But he only groaned in answer to her tender, loving words, and soon the meek, humble
            and patient spirit of poor old Joe left the body to flutter up to the pearly gates,
            which, no doubt, swung back, while all the heavenly choir sounded their loudest notes,
            and he found and was reunited with the wife and baby he had so longed to go and see.


        


        
        

           CHAPTER IX. JENNETTE'S FATHER DIES, AND HER FATE IS
            SEALED.
          
            
              To let the new life in, we know
              Desire must ope' the portal;
              Perhaps the longing to be so,
              Helps make the soul immortal.
            
          
          "Poor old Uncle Joe," sobbed Jennette, "I feel that I have killed you. You have at
            least laid down your life for me, and I am not worthy."
          Mr. Browning's eyes were full of tears. He had never known any harm of the old man, and
            he knew he had been all devotion to his wild gazelle, as he used to call her, when she
            would run off and stay for hours with him, and fill the quills he used in his shuttle,
            and his heart felt a tender pity for the lonely man. And now that he had saved her life
            by laying down his own, he said that he should have a nice burial. So while Mr. Browning
            went to get help from the neighbors, who all loved the kind-hearted old weaver, Jennette
            never left the bedside, but closed his eyes with her own hands, and combed the few white
            hairs which remained above his temples. And when strange men came to lay him out, she
            kissed the cold lips and said: "Good-bye,  Uncle Joe!
            Jennette is coming where you are, sometime."
          She walked home between her cousin and Flora, and refused to be comforted, because she
            felt it was her fault that he had died so soon. " Oh!" she said, "I wish that he was
            living, and I was a little girl, to sit upon his knee and hear him tell about his wife
            and little girl away up in heaven where angels dwell, and where he hoped one day to go.
            But alas! little did I think I held the key that would unlock the door of death for him.
            I wish I had never seen those hateful ponies; I'll never drive them again! never!
          Flora and Angella did all they could to console her, telling her it was only an
            accident and no one's fault and that the old man had done what might reasonably be
            expected of him and received what might as easily be calculated on--as he was too old to
            undertake to catch and hold such spirited horses as those of Cooper.
          When they arrived at home, they found Mrs. Browning in tears over the sad affair, but
            she said: "My daughter, what if it had been yourself--I should not have lived. I have
            had trouble enough already."
          Jennette said: "Mother, one life is as precious as another."
          "Yes, my child, but he was old and friendless, with no one to mourn his loss, while you
            are young and the joy of our hearts. You see it is better so."
          "Oh! mother, he did have some one to love him; I  loved
            him and I shall never forget his kindness to me," sobbed Jennette.
          But sister Minnie said : "Poor girl, we know you did love Uncle Joe, for like begets
            like, and his devotions to you from a child completely won your heart to him. I know you
            feel like you had lost a dear friend, and it was to save your life he lost his own. But
            never mind, we will have him laid in our own burial ground, and you can plant his grave
            with flowers, and keep it as you would a father's. So do not feel so badly, you know he
            could not have lived much longer and then, too, he might have died sometime all alone,
            and not been found for days."
          "Yes, but then, I should have had no hand in his death?"
          "You have not had any hand in it, sister, it was only a sad accident."
          Jennette began to feel better, under the kind-hearted sister's persuasion. Just then
            her father came in and said, "Well, Uncle Joe looks peaceful in death, and he shall have
            as nice a burial as I can give him."
          "Oh! father," cried Jennette, "give him the best place in our burial ground."
          "I am just now going to look out the grave's location ; girls, would you like to go
            along ? "
          "Yes, and mother, too," said thoughtful Minnie.
          The graveyard was only a short distance behind the village church, and they all walked
            over to view the ground where the body of poor old Joe was so shortly  to lie. Jennette begged that he might be laid under a
            willow she had planted, some years before, with her own hands. She said: "I had always
            intended being buried there myself; but now, I can do no more for him than to give him
            my place. He shall have that."
          Her father had the grave dug just where she desired it, and the next day a small
            company of friendly neighbors assembled at the spot, bearing a richly covered casket,
            which they opened that all might take the last look at the honest face of poor old Joe.
            Jennette had picked out a few verses of holy writ to be read by the minister, and a hymn
            to be sung. When he read the beautiful words of David, the place seemed indeed as holy
            ground. Those standing by shed tears of sympathy for the bereaved Jennette, for all knew
            how devotedly attached the old man had always been to her, and how tenderly she had
            returned his affection, and when they turned from the grave, there was indeed one mourner--just as she had told him, long before, there would be when
            he was gone.
          Jennette never would attempt to drive the ponies again, but she and Angella took long
            walks together, and often had Flora accompany them. There came a letter one day to
            Angella from her home, and inside of it was another for Jennette--so full of loving,
            tender words that it put new life into her soul and brought with it a ray of hope, in so
            much that her eyes kindled anew and her cheeks took on the glow of better health.
          Charlie had received and answered the kind and  loving
            letter written by Jennette on the banks of the old river. He said he felt as if
            soldiering was but a light task--even to the eating of hard crackers and parched corn,
            with only half rations at that--if he could only be assured of Jennette's unwavering
            devotion. He said: "Jennette, if you marry Jay Cooper, while your heart is mine, I shall
            always feel that he has no right to you ; and I feel, too, that a father that would ask
            so much of a daughter certainly did not take her happiness into consideration. I do not
            wish to speak unkindly of your father, yet, allow me to say, he may yet repent the step
            he is taking with you; not that I shall ever wrong him--far be it from me--but if Cooper
            does not, I shall miss my guess."
          She hated to read that part of the letter, for she was devoted to her father ; besides,
            she said : "Charlie does not look at this matter just as I do, for love blinds his eyes
            to every other matter ; he cannot see that father has a natural right
            to want me to do his way. Ah! well," she said, "I will wait and see what the future has
            in store for me; hoping that father may yet become better reconciled to him, I will live
            in hope."
          Angella's visit had at length drawn to a close. Her parents wrote for her to come home,
            and it was with many regrets the cousins parted. Angella whispered in Jennette's ear at
            starting : "When Charlie gets home bring him to our house and make him your
            husband."
          Jennette smiled sadly, saying: "With father's consent, Angella." 

          

          It now was nearing the end of the six months since Cooper went to war and he would soon
            be home. He had written many letters to Jennette and had always expressed so much regret
            at leaving the ponies for her to drive, after they had done such a terrible thing, but
            always expressed himself as being very thankful that it was not she who was killed: for,
            said he, I should never have come home; I would have gone to England and tried to forget
            America."
          Yet his flattering words never had any effect on Jennette's mind or heart--none
            whatever. One day she received a letter, stating that he would be at home in time to
            break the spirit of those animals before sleigh-riding came again." She shook her head
            at this and said : "Never again will I ride behind those ponies."
          Her father laughed at her and said: "Jay can manage them just as easily as you could a
            kitten."
          "Well, I care not who drives them, I shall never be drawn by them any more."
          The autumn days drew on--September came with its golden hues, its cool nights and its
            lovely days--and Cooper was to be home in a short time.
          Jennette shrank from the thought; for she felt that while he loved her so well and was
            so thoughtful of her happiness, she was ungenerous and unkind. Yet she could not tell,
            when she asked herself the question: "What is it that holds me from him ? Is it because
            I love another, that I feel this shrinking from him?"
          The day came at last, and the six months boys were  at
            home. Cooper was not long in putting in an appearance at Mr. Browning's, and Jennette
            really felt glad to see him. He was a quick, bright young gentleman, and had so many
            funny things to tell of the life of a soldier, that he made his first visit with the
            whole family very pleasant, indeed; Mr. Browning taking great pains to make the time
            pass pleasantly. But when he asked Jennette to drive with him, the next day, she so
            obstinately refused that he felt somewhat chagrined. She spoke reverently of her old
            friend, who had lost his life by the unruly conduct of the ponies. He said; "I can
            assure you they cannot master me."
          There was no alternative, as she remained immovable, and he gave up the drive. Nothing
            daunted, however, he came the next evening, and the next, and so on--he haunted her like
            a shadow, and said : "We can walk if we cannot drive." And so the Autumn days were spent
            in fishing, graping and having what he called a good time.
          But somehow Jennette never enjoyed it all, for she felt a presentiment of evil all the
            time. She would say: "I suppose it is because the gipsy prophesied as she did. I must
            shake it off," and she would sing and talk and try to make time pass pleasantly.
          Flora Arlington had known Jay Cooper from a child and had secretly loved him, but had
            guarded it so well that even Jennette did not mistrust such to be the case. Jay knew
            Flora had always liked his society but did not dream of her loving him so devotedly.
            This being  the case, she was determined to do all she
            could to keep him and Jennette apart. While she was more friendly than ever to Jennette,
            she was doing all she could to arouse a jealousy in Jay's nature, and make him feel and
            believe she was not true-hearted.
          Dr. Varney, one of the village physicians, had been a good friend and great admirer of
            Jennette, and had ever enjoyed her society; and as his lady love resided in Kentucky, he
            had always chosen Jennette for his partner to attend parties or places of
            amusement,--and had told her of his engagement, and his intentions of soon getting
            married, and that he intended to bring his wife to the village, and when they were
            thoroughly established in housekeeping, he would ask his friend, Duke Martin, over from
            Kentucky, to spend the winter with him; and he wanted that she should win him; for he
            said: "He is a fine young man and very brilliant, just what you admire." She promised to
            be as gracious to him as possible.
          The doctor soon brought his newly-made bride home, and had been keeping house for some
            time. Jennette had visited the family frequently, and the young wife had already become
            greatly attached to her.
          Duke Martin, who had just graduated from a prominent law school, was a handsome young
            man of splendid abilities and genial social qualities, now arrived at the doctor's,
            where he heard the praises of Jennette sung so often by the doctor and his wife, that he
            felt he should like her, at least. So, on getting acquainted,  he was more pleased with her than he had even hoped to be; his attentions
            were favorably received by Jennette, as she had promised the doctor and his wife to
            treat him nicely for their sake, he being their guest.
          Mr. Martin was handsome, and brilliant, and Jay Cooper's rival. Jennette enjoyed his
            society, much more than that of Cooper. Her father expostulated with her; but to no
            avail--she would and did treat Martin courteously. While Jay Cooper raved, Flora would
            often tell him that Martin had been at Browning's, and that he and Jennette had been out
            sleighriding. This, with other things which she threw in to give it a coloring, excited
            his jealously to such an extent that he was furious,--even proposed a duel--which Mr.
            Martin laughed at.
          Just at that time, Mr. Browning was taken very sick quite suddenly, growing worse and
            worse for four days, when Dr. Arlington informed the family that he must die. It came
            like a thunder bolt from a clear sky, and found them wholly unprepared.
          It would be impossible to describe the feelings of the grief-stricken family, when they
            found that he must die. Jennette on bended knees implored God to spare her father. He
            felt himself rapidly sinking, and, calling Jennette to his bedside, said: "My daughter,
            I shall soon cross the dark river; but do not weep so, darling, my feet shall touch the
            other shore. I can almost see the shining ones who are to waft me over, and the richest
            music now reaches my ear, from those who play  upon the
            harps of a thousand strings. And when I am gathering immortal flowers, I shall weave a
            chaplet for my little girl : Will you come and wear it, Jennette ?"
          She was so overcome that she sank upon her knees by the bedside in an agony of grief.
            He placed his hand upon her head and stroked her golden hair, while the death angel was
            tracing visible lines about his eyes, and calling to him to, "Come up higher." In a
            plaintive tone, he said : "Jennette, I have a request to ask of you."
          Placing her arm around his neck, she said: "What is it, father ?"
          He said: "That you make a speedy marriage with Mr. Cooper. Remember it is your dying
            father's request. Will you promise, and never think any more about Hayward ?"
          "My dear dying father, how can I give you up ? And, oh! how can I make this promise ?
            It is one thing to make such a promise as this, and another to keep it."
          "Jennette, I know you will keep the vow you make to me on my dying bed."
          She shook like an aspen leaf. "Yes, father, any vow which I make here I will most
            assuredly keep."
           "Then, do you promise me ? "
           She hesitated but a moment to gain the mastery over self, then kissing his cold
            forehead, she whispered: "I will."
          "My dear daughter, my little gazelle, I can now die  in
            peace ! But first send for Cooper ; I want to leave with you my blessing."
           A messenger was immediately dispatched, and soon Mr. Cooper stood beside Jennette and
            her dying father. He held out his hands. They each took one of his hands, and he said,
              "My children! Jay, Jennette has promised me to soon become your
            wife. I promised you once to do all I could to gain her for you, and now I have
            accomplished it, and even in death it soothes me to know she has some one to love and
            care for her, who is worthy. Now, while you live, Jay, do all you can to make her happy.
            She has been to me the kindest and most obedient of daughters; and I know she will prove
            a tender and loving wife. Remember she is my baby, while you are my choice for a
            husband. I hope you will ever prove worthy of the trust."
          Jay felt himself grow weak; for he had been having some very dark thoughts in
            connection with her, in the past few days. And while he felt exultant that she was given
            into his hands so supremely, he felt that he should leave a good impression upon a soul
            about to pass into eternity; for he knew that he, too, must stand at the same judgment
            bar to answer for his sins-- perhaps in the presence of this same man who was placing
            such implicit confidence in him.
          He partook of the feeling and said: "Mr. Browning, I have loved Jennette as I have not
            and never can love another ; so, go in peace, I will do my duty."
          Then the hand of the dying father was placed upon  their
            heads and a blessing given for their future married life.
          It was as if he had put his fingers on Jennette's heart-strings and snapped the very
            chords of her life. Yet she said: "I will pass under the rod, God knows best, and surely
            he will direct in this matter;" saying to herself, "What will life be when father is
            gone, any way? So I might as well carry out his will; I will only be happier in so
            doing."
          It was an awful hour; for it was a terrible thing to lose a kind father and wise
            counselor, yet, the one who holds the key of death, and fears not to enter the palaces
            of kings, comes unbidden into the more humble homes, and king and peasant alike, fall by
            the two-edged sword he bears. And sooner or later, the great harvest will be
            gathered--He will have done His work and eternity will reveal the record of us all.
          Ferrell was summoned home; she arrived in time to receive her father's forgiveness. She
            felt that her actions had done much to humiliate and distress her aged parents, and she
            realized, for the first time since her marriage, that her own wilfulness had been the
            cause of her doing a great wrong.
          Death soon sealed the lips and closed the eyes of one whom the church, of which he had
            so long been a worthy member,--mourned. In the triumph of a living faith he had passed
            from earth.
          Jennette felt like one in a dream. She knew he was gone; and she was plighted by a
            dying blessing, to one  she both loathed and feared. She
            repeated the language of her savior: "'Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass;
            yet, not my will, but Thine, be done.' Oh! how hard to say, 'not my
            will, but Thine, be done.'"
          Many friends, relatives and acquaintances assembled in the church, of which Mr.
            Browning had long been a leader, to do him honor. The funeral sermon was preached by one
            who had known and loved him as a father and friend. The occasion was one of awful
            solemnity; and when at last he was laid beneath the sod of the valley, Jennette felt
            that life was not worth living; with no father to protect; no brother to love, and one
            whom she could not love, to haunt her footsteps always. What could she do?
          After her father had been dead about a fortnight, she concluded to write to Charlie and
            tell him all. She felt it was a duty. Yet how painful the task. She began thus: 
              
                
                  DEAR CHARLIE :
                  I say dear Charlie for the last time! My poor, dear father is
                    dead. He died two weeks ago. In his dying hour he called Jay Cooper to his
                    bedside and begged that we be married. He implored me to accept Jay's hand,
                    which you know I could not refuse. I knew you had fast hold on
                    my heart; yet I could not refuse his dying request. And while
                    I am bound to Cooper with a vow, and a father's dying blessing, oh, Charlie!
                    never think me untrue of myself. I have done all I could! Fate has woven a web
                    about me from which I can not extricate myself, but in all the years to come I
                    shall tenderly breathe your name. I hope we may never meet again. I feel that I
                    could not bear it. But I want you to find some one with a tender, loving heart,
                    who will prove to you what  I fain would have
                    been. Love her; make her your wife, and float down the stream of time together
                    in unsullied bliss, forgetting the little girl you so heroically saved from a
                    watery grave. Now, with many tears, I bid you a final farewell. 
                  JENNETTE. 

                
              
            

          Ah! how little did she realize the terrible suffering those few lines would cost the
            reader. We never know how much tenderness can be hidden away inside the rough souldier's
            garb. To look at Charlie Hayward as he stood receiving some order from the major, when
            that letter was handed him, and see the black, piercing eyes and strong manly
            frame--bold, daring soldier that he was--who would have thought that a woman's hand
            could have traced the lines, which would have weakened his knees and made the pallor of
            death creep around the tightly compressed lips? Yet, even so, that letter came and
            affected him more strangely, than to have been drawn up in line of battle to face the
            cannon's mouth.
           While Charlie suffered, Cooper grew more and more commanding. He would tell Jennette,
              "Now you are mine, remember, and I want you to know, that Duke Martin can never have anything more to say to you, nor you to
              him!"
          Jennette was self-willed when she thought she was in the right, and she defiantly told
            him that she was not his until the words were said which would make them man and wlfe,
            and that while she was unmarried she would use her freedom.
          This aroused in him a nature that had only been 
            slumbering, and he determined that her haughty spirit should be subdued.
          So, one evening, after a brief conversation with her, she declared her intention of
            going sleigh-riding with Duke Martin the next day, he flew into a passion, and said,
            "You can not break your vow, Jennette! I shall not break mine! I told your father I
            would do my duty, and I will! My first duty is to humble you, and you'll see I'll do it,
            too!"
          Jennette laughed, while her eyes kindled with a peculiar light. "I guess you'll have a
            good time breaking the haughty spirit so much like my father's. When I am doing no wrong
            to any one, I shall keep right on in my own way. Duke Martin is a gentleman, one whom I
            esteem but do not love. I have a heart to love but once."
          She shot the fatal arrow that time, for Jay knew she loved Charlie Hayward. He turned
            on his heel and left her, muttering through his closed teeth that she would yet see if
            he was not equal to the task of so completely humiliating her that she would think all
            the trouble she had ever seen but a drop in the cup, compared with the great ocean of
            sorrow he vowed he'd plunge her into.
        

        

        



           CHAPTER X. CHARLIE HAYWARD RETURNS FROM THE WAR TO LEARN
            HIS FATE.
          
            
              How hard to see life's cup of bliss
              Dashed fiercely to the earth,
              Just when hope's flowers begin to bloom,
              Wafting a strangely sweet perfume
              Around a heart that's all in tune
              For joys of truest worth.
            
          
          Winter was passing rapidly, with its sleigh rides, skating parties, oyster suppers and
            balls. Jennette attended those places of amusement, but very little; for the old home
            had become such a place of mourning that none of its inmates were cheerful. She loved to
            skate, however, and often Duke Martin would call for her, and they would go to the river
            and spend an afternoon on the ice ; and she would frequently enjoy a ride with him, in
            spite of all Cooper's threatenings; for Mr. Martin was one of those happy, congenial
            spirits that seemed to make all in his presence more cheerful. But the more attention he
            paid her, the more Jay Cooper resolved on revenge. He began to visit Jennette often and
            to talk of a speedy marriage-- which always made a chill run over her, and she would  say : "There need be no hurry; we are both young yet; let
            us not get old so soon !"
          He argued that he had promised her father an early marriage. To this she could never
            find any answer, yet she waited and halted until March was half gone, when there came
            another call from the President for one year men. The government wanted men for one
            year, or during the war--the prospects were favorable for a speedy termination, if the
            reinforcements could be had.
           Jennette spoke to Cooper and said : "Why don't you go now and help close up this
            terrible conflict and receive your laurels with the rest of the boys ? "
          Cooper was as shrewd as he was jealous, and said : "I will, if you will be my wife
            before I go."
          She argued that he might get killed, or die, and she would be left a widow so
            young.
          While they were waiting there came news that the 46th Regiment had got home. Their
            three years had expired, and Jennette heard in a short time that Charlie Hayward was in
            town. There were protracted meetings going on in the church of which she and all the
            family were members, and she felt that perhaps she might get sight of him; yet she did
            not know whether she wanted to see him or not. She knew her own heart, and knew to see
            him would only be to awaken sad memories and stir her soul to its depths again, and she
            felt that a stern and bitter fate stood between them, relentless as death. Therefore,
            while conscience said : "Avoid  seeing him," Love stood at
            the door of her heart, ready to open and let Cupid's darts in.
          It happened that one night, as she took her accustomed seat in the village church, some
            one came in and sat down immediately behind her. She could not tell why, but she felt in
            her heart that it was Charlie. When they arose to sing, there was a rich bass voice she
            knew so well, blending with the others and filling the house with its melody. She knew
            the voice, for she said : "There is none other like it." She did not sing. No, not a
            word of that favorite hymn fell from her lips, for there was a great lump in her throat
            and she was afraid the tears would fall, in spite of all she could do. She was glad when
            the last line was sung and the minister said, "Let us pray."
          She knelt and asked God to strengthen her for that bitter trial; she prayed, "Help me
            to turn coldly away, that I may keep my vow to my dying father."
          She heard but little of that sermon and dreaded to hear the benediction, for how could
            she speak carelessly to the one she loved more dearly than her own life ? Yet she said :
            "I must, for I'm bound to another."
          When the amens were said, she walked out into the aisle, and it was so crowded in a few
            moments' time, that she could not move except as she was swayed with the crowd, and
            those nearest the door had to go out before she could make a move in that direction.
          She felt that his eyes were on her. But soon old friends gathered around and began
            shaking hands with  him, and she heard in a dreamy way his
            pleasant voice, as he laughed and passed some pleasant joke--so like him. She felt that
            it was an awful hour and an awful place for her. While she was trying to find some way
            out, he came right out of the pew in the aisle where she was standing, wedged in the
            crowd--for those near the door stood there, Hoosier fashion, "to watch the boys go home
            with the girls," they said, and it took time and patience to extricate one's self from
            such a packed house.
          Charlie noticed Jennette trying to evade him, and he was not slow to see that she cared
            for his seeming indifference. Everybody seemed to be talking to him at once and he shook
            the hand of every old and every young lady on all sides of Jennette; but he never seemed
            to see her--no more than if she was not standing as close to him as she could be
            crowded.
          When at last the people did begin to disperse, he was first to move toward the door,
            and that made way for the rest. As he went down the passage way, he talked to all and
            answered questions seemingly as unconcernedly as if he had never cared for any one in
            his life.
          Jennette felt faint. She said to herself : "Can I ever get home ? or shall I live when
            I get there? "
          Jay Cooper stood in waiting at the door to take her home. It was only a short distance
            to her mother's door, but, "Oh !" she thought to herself, "can I ever get there?" and
            then, to lean on Cooper's arm, when his very breath seemed poison to her, and to go home
               with him and hear the voice of one whose every word
            pierced her heart like a dagger.
          After Cooper bid her good night, he said : "I guess the sight of Hayward has paralyzed
            your tongue. You do not answer me nor seem to comprehend what I say, or else you do not
            care to!"
          Jennette bethought herself and said: "Oh, good night, Jay, excuse me" and she hurried
            into the house, while he went home with more determination than ever to carry out his
            dark and fiendish designs. Mrs. Browning noticed Jennette's agitation and said : "What
            ails you, Jennette, are you ill?"
          "No, mother," sobbed Jennette, "but Charlie was there, and he spoke to every one but
            me,--and--and--"
          "Well, well, Jennette, all the better for you. You surely do not want to blow the ashes
            off that old fire, do you, right now, when you are so soon to be Jay Cooper's wife?"
          "Well, mother," she cried, "you will never, never know what a
            struggle it is for me."
          Mrs. Browning told her, angrily, to go to bed, and not talk any more nonsense that
            night.
          Jennette obeyed, glad to get where she could cry and no one see her. All that long,
            dark night did she weep and toss from pillow to pillow, which seemed no better than the
            rock the weary Jacob rested his head upon, when he lay with distracted mind in that dark
            woodland. Yet, he was more favored than she, for she had no dream of promise, no angels
            ascending and descending  to tell her there were better
            days in store for her.
          Morning came and found Jennette worn out, feverish and sick.
          "Jennette" said her mother, "why do you not get up? It is quite late and your breakfast
            is waiting for you."
          "I do not wish any breakfast, mother," she replied, "I feel sick this morning."
          As soon as her mother looked at her swollen eyes she guessed the truth and began a
            tirade of abuse. Jennette sprang up, dressed herself hastily and tried to eat, if it was
            ever so little.
          Her mother said, "There is no use of a young girl acting foolishly over nothing."
          Poor Jennette! How hard she tried to go through the day and appear calm. But with all
            her trying, anyone who knew her would have said she was not herself. She rather
            hesitated about going to church that evening, yet she said within her heart, "I must go. I must see him again if it kills me." So, when evening came she
            went straight to church, taking her usual seat. This time Charlie came in and took his
            seat beside her. She exclaimed inwardly, "Now what shall I do! I can never endure it all
            again." When they arose to sing he held his book for her. She took hold of one side of
            it, but her hand trembled until the words, lines and letters all blended together, and
            for her life she could not open her mouth to sing. She kept dreading to have meeting
            close, for she was in closer quarters than she had been the evening before.


          




          When dismissal came, Charlie turned right to her, took both her hands in his and looked
            tenderly into her eyes, and said: "Jennette! "
          She stammered, " Charlie! "
          He knew she was trembling from head to foot; but he slipped his arm around her waist
            and said: "Come, Jen, I am going home with you!"
          She could not say no; no, not for her life; yet she felt she ought to. But his loving
            arm was about her waist, and he held one of her hands in a tight clasp, while he talked
            and laughed to all around him, and said in his own way, "I have found my girl, and I'm
            going to take her home if I have to whip all the boys in town."
          Jennette dropped her eyes, for she could not refuse to go, how could she? for he was
            near her, she felt his warm breath upon her cheek, his arm entwined about her waist, her
            hand nestled in his,--and oh! what a heaven to her to be with him, if only for a few
            brief moments. As they passed out of the church she saw Jay Cooper standing there, and
            she never forgot the look he cast upon her as she went out leaning on Charlie's arm.
          As soon as they had gained the street, Charlie spoke and said: "Well, Jennette, I tried
            you last night, I found you mine, still mine! I knew your eyes were
            full of tears, dear, when I passed you by and shook hands with those around you; but I
            saw you wished to avoid me, and I knew it was not the promptings of your own true heart,
            but the fear of others, that made you shy  off from me so.
            I thought I would let you see how it went to have the one you loved best forget
            you."
          "Oh! Charlie, how could you be so cruel?" gasped Jennette.
           "My own Jennette! I say my own, because you are. Heaven heard and registered our vows,
            long ago; and all that ever stood between us is gone, and now there is not a moment to
            be lost. I will go to-night, if you say so, procure the license, and we will be married
            to-morrow."
          "Oh! Charlie! Charliel please do not talk so. Have you forgotten the promise I made to
            a dying father?"
          "Yes, I want to forget it. I want you to forget it, and live to the promise you made to
            me. The dead know not anything, while the living must suffer."
          Oh! how manly he looked, and how his dark eyes kindled with the love-light that shone
            out of them upon her, as he drew himself up to his full height by the gate where he had
            parted from her three years before, in soldier's uniform, and heard her last whisper :
            "I will be true." The moon and stars looked down into her blue eyes as they were
            upturned to his manly face, and as he looked down upon the thin, pale face, he saw such
            cruel lines of suffering depicted there that he snatched her to his heart and said: "My
            poor little girl, you have been a great sufferer the last three years as well as myself;
            I read it in your face; and yet you cling to a phantom and let real happiness slip
            through your hands. How can you, dearest; how can you ?"


          


          She drew apart from him, and, pointing up to the heavens, she said : "Charlie, do you
            see yonder moon .and those bright stars ? "
           He replied : "Yes, Jennette."
          "Well, remember, every time you look at them, that I am just as unchangeable as they.
            You remember the night you volunteered--they shone just as bright as they do to-night;
            my heart was yours then, and it is yours to-night. Just as the shining star has lost
            none of its lustre, neither has my love ceased to glow, and to-night it is not dimmed.
            Yet, Charlie, as God has marked the course of the stars, so has He marked mine. I know
            it is hard, and life with me will be one great sacrifice; but I shall make it! I shall
            carry out my dying father's request, if sorrow kills me in a fortnight !"
          "Oh, Jennette!" said Charlie as he took her hands, "I have braved dangers, I have
            suffered all kinds of privations, was wounded once, and it was thought by all that I
            must die; but one thought buoyed me up, and that was that I would
            live--I would live to claim my little Hoosier girl. And I shall never forget the
            letter you wrote me after your father's death. I felt that I would rather be killed than
            ever see you another man's wife ; yet, I had a hope that if I could only reach home
            before you took the fatal step, I could save you from a fate worse than death, aud my
            own heart from wretchedness. But alas! my own, my little Jennette, I come back only to
            find you holding so relentlessly to a vow  made long after
            the one you made to me, darling! I have bought you with a price, and now must make the
            sacrifice to one I do so hate--and I believe you both fear and hate
            him, too. Jennette, you will never know what this struggle of three years and this
            coming home has cost me. I wish I could have died on some battlefield and found an
            unknown grave--where the wild flowers would have kissed the sod over my dead body and
            breathed their fragrance out around me. Who would have cared ? "
          "I would! Oh, Charlie!" she cried, and fell fainting in his arms. He held her to his
            breast, and hot, burning tears fell upon the death-like pallor of her face. The moon
            looked down pitilessly upon her. He stooped and gathered a little snow that lay near his
            feet and rubbed her face and tenderly called her, "Jennette."
          She arose and stammered : "Let me go, Charlie !"
          He said : "Not yet, Jennette, let us sit down on this block, and let me talk just a
            little longer; you must compose yourself and think seriously."
          "Oh, Charlie, it is the thinking seriously that is killing me !"
          "Yes, dear, but did you ever think what a life yours will be to marry a man you detest
            ?"
          "0 no, Charlie, do not make me hate him; for fate has sealed it, and he is the man,
            after all."
          "Well, you seem to have set a seal upon your own fate. And now, look up to me, Jen, and
            tell me, if you  think you have been true to me. Tell me,
            if you think the vows you made to me are less sacred than those you have made since
            ?"
          "Oh, Charlie, do not tempt me to break the vows I made to my dying father; do not ask
            me to throw lightly away his blessing ! "
          "No! no ! my little girl, I shall say no more; but remember I would like to save you
            from a fate that will be far worse than the one I saved you from years ago."
          "Charlie, you dear, good Charlie, I have never ceased to love you since I opened my
            eyes and found myself in your arms. But, do you know, I wish I had gone down to rise no
            more ? I might have been happy where my father is to-night."
          He drew her to his heart in one long, tender embrace and said: "Well! Jennette, I saved
            you, to lose you just when it hurts me worse than anything else ever could."
          "Oh, Charlie, please say no more; my heart is too full to-night. Let me bid you
            good-bye, and let it be the final farewell; for I must not, dare not trust myself to
            listen to your words of loving devotion again !"
          He drew her closer and imprinted a kiss upon her trembling lips, while she felt the hot
            tears from his eyes fall upon her cheek. She arose and walked into the house quickly,
            and retired immediately to spend another sleepless night, while Charlie Hayward wandered
            back to the boarding house, a wretched, desolate man. He tossed upon his bed all night
            long trying to (10)  get control of himself and find out
            what he was to do. Not a thought had he had for himself for years with regard to the
            future, but that Jennette was linked with it. But now his plans were all thwarted; she
            was not, and never would he his. And where must he go to try to forget his suffering, or
            get rid, if possible, of this awful load that seemed to be hanging over his heart? He
            resolved to get all things in readiness on the morrow and go to Indian Territory, to
            bury himself from the eyes of all who knew him. "But," he muttered, clenching his fist,
            "should he ever abuse Jennette, here is the hand that will take his dastardly, cowardly
            life."
           Morning dawned at last, and he was found packing his trunks and getting everything
            ready to start, and at ten o'clock he was seen driving toward the city and casting his
            farewell glance upon the little village of B---.
          The sun had scarcely risen, when Jay Cooper made his appearance at the door of Mrs.
            Browning, all smiles, and told Jennette that he was going down to Indianapolis that day
            to volunteer in the year's service and that he wanted her to make haste and get ready
            soon to become his wife, for, said he, "I want to leave all my possessions with you. If
            I should get killed, or through sickness never get home again, I want you to have all I
            leave behind, and it is several thousand."
          Jennette felt herself growing weak, and she stammered : "How soon shall it be?"


          


          "Well, how soon can you get ready--in two weeks? "
          She nodded her head, but her eyes were bent on the floor.
          He saw it was a hard matter for her to speak, somehow, and said: "Look up, Jennette,
            and throw a little soul into your actions, if you do not talk."
          She raised her eyes and said: "What do you intend to do with me while you are
            gone?"
          "Why, I have thought how nice it would be to go to your sister Ferrell's. I can get
            furloughed until the regiment is full, and they lack a great many yet of having their
            number. I will take you there. We will visit Ferrell and take in all the sights that are
            to be found, and have a nice time generally."
          His manner was so pleasant, and he seemed so enthusiastic over the prospect, and talked
            so cheerfully that she began to feel a little better; and, as usual, blamed herself for
            having felt so indifferently toward him, when he seemed so devoted. She said: "I will
            stay with sister Ferrell half the time you're gone, then divide the rest of the time
            between our mothers."
          "That's capital, Jen; you'll find a dear old mother in my home, and one that loves you,
            too. So, now kiss me good-bye, Jennette, I must be going, and you commence your
            necessary preparations immediately." She promised, and went to her mother and told her
            their arrangements.
          Mrs. Browning was well pleased and said, "Well, Jennette, St. Paul, Minn., is a long
            way off, and you will  see a great deal and learn many
            things. So you shall have your wardrobe all made right!"
          She called in a dressmaker, and preparations began in earnest.
          Cooper joined his regiment that day, and stayed four days in camp, then got permission
            to return home. He hurried Jennette in her preparations, for he said he wanted to take
            her west and spend as much time with her as possible before the regiment got orders to
            leave Indianapolis.
          She was kept so busy trying on dresses, basting and helping, that she did not have much
            time for crying, until night would come, then the hours were so long,
            and Charlie was ever before her. She could see his. pale agitated face; she could hear
            his pleading; she could feel the tears on her face whenever she was alone, and, "Oh!"
            she said, "where is he, where did he go? And yet, I've no right to ask even myself the
            question." And when she did get a few hours sleep, it was broken with frightful visions;
            and she felt each morning as though she had not slept at all.
          At last the day arrived. A cold, chilly day in April. Dark and gloomy hung the sky
            above, and Jennette's heart beat in unison with the elements. A party of friendly
            neighbors assembled to see them start, and wish them all the success and happiness that
            any one might wish, through life. Among the number was Flora Arlington. She was pale
            with jealousy. Yet she kissed Jennette good-bye, and wished her a long life and much  happiness;--while her heart prompted her to say, "I do not
            care if you are never happy again."
          Jay said: "It is due to Jennette and her friends that I tell you all that the doors of
            one of the best hotels in the city are to be thrown open, and Rev. Mr. Stokes, of
            Indianapolis, is to officiate, in the presence of witnesses."
          He had a boy to drive the ponies and take them to the city. This was the first time
            Jennette had ridden behind those ponies since the fatal accident. When the whip was
            given them by the young driver they darted off at a rapid gait, and Jay, lifting his
            hat, waved them all goodbye until he should return from the war. Jennette dropped her
            veil, and while the little gloved hands lay motionless in her lap, Jay began to think
            she was never going to speak or stir again. He lifted her veil and saw tears coursing
            down her cheeks. He flew into a passion and said, angrily, "Jennette, I think I would
            brace up if I were you, and not be found shedding tears, on my wedding day. Do you not
            know it is a bad omen? Then remember, I have settled all I have on you, in case of my
            death--then, perhaps you can get some one that will suit you better."
          "Oh! Jay, do not torment me so cruelly on my wedding day; for when I'm your wife I
            shall be true as heaven-- never shall the thought enter my heart that perhaps you might
            get killed and I be left free to marry another! No, Jay, all that you leave me, I shall
            guard sacredly; and I cannot even bear to think of your dying."


          


          He slipped his arm around her and drew her gently to him and said,--while his face wore
            the pallor of death: "Then I can hope that you do love me a little, do you not,
            Jennette?" He took her hand that had his ring on, and looking at it, said, "Oh! if I did
            but possess the love of your whole heart, it would save me many a wrong." He said this
            in a way not calculated for her to comprehend, and as if his heart dictated better
            things than he anticipated doing.
          She looked up, while a shadow of pain passed over her face, and said, "Jay, I have
            never concealed my heart from you. You have always known my feelings toward you; but you
            have taken me now, to make me your wife. I have, and do here, pledge myself to forget
            all others, and devote my whole life to you. Can you ask more?"
          He threw back his head with a haughty air, and said, "Well, that's enough for me! so we
            will talk, now, of the future. In the first place, I expect to have no witnesses to the
            marriage ceremony. And as I am intending to meet that ten-forty train, we will have no
            preliminaries whatever. Just meet the minister and landlady, have the ceremony said,
            then get aboard the train for Indianapolis."
          "Why, you told mother and the friends we left, that we were to be married in the
            presence of others."
          "Oh, well, old women are so foolish, one has to get on with them as easily as
            possible."
          Jennette felt that he had done that for a blind, and  she
            asked herself the question, "What is it for? Why should he wish to deceive any one at
            such a time as this?" She trembled to think what manner of man he was; and when the city
            appeared in sight, she grew cold as death, and her teeth chattered. He asked her if she
            was cold, and placed her wraps about her more comfortably. She shook her head and said,
            "Only a little nervous." But when the ponies dashed up alongside the hotel, and she saw
            the curtains all drawn closely, and no sign of anything he had promised her mother, her
            strength left her. She could scarcely stand when lifted from the carriage. But Jay
            caught her arm and steadied her, while he commanded the driver to see that the trunks
            were safe, and then drive home as quickly as he had come, and take good care of the
            ponies until he returned from the war. He led the trembling Jennette into the hall, a
            door was opened by a red-haired, hard-visaged woman, and they were ushered into a room
            which was almost as dark as night. Jay spoke, saying, "Call the minister." They remained
            standing while a dark and swarthy looking man stepped in at the call of the woman, and
            walking up in front of the pair, he rattled off a few broken words in a seemingly
            excited way, and pronounced them man and wife,--returning as quickly as he had come
            in.
          Jay placed his arm around her waist and said, "Come little wife, don't be so scared,
            there is nothing to frighten you." Turning to the woman, he said, "Is the train due,
            that we wish to take?"


          


          She answered in a coarse, uncouth way, "It has just pulled into the station."
          He drew Jennette's arm within his own and stepped out on the street, saying, "Let's go
            to the depot at once. It's right here," pointing to the smoking engine.
          She found it was a dirty narrow way, by which they had to reach the depot, and she was
            so dismayed and perplexed by all that had happened, that she could not talk,--only
            asking if the trunks had been checked.
          He answered that all was right, and that they would soon be on their way to
            Indianapolis.
          When they were seated in the car, she noticed what an agitated look Cooper wore, and
            wondered what could be the matter.
          Presently there was a young gentleman stepped up to them and said: "Allow me to
            congratulate you, Mr. and Mrs. Cooper." Jennette was glad to meet him. She recognized
            him as an old acquaintance she had not seen for some time. Jay asked him how he came to
            know anything about the affair? He said he had seen Jennette's travelling costume, and
            took in the situation at once. "I perceived you were married and on your wedding tour.
            But Jay, what ails you?" he remarked, eyeing him closely,"you seem to be terribly
            excited; try and compose yourself," he said, laughing, "for you have a wife now to look
            after; you must be manly, not easily thrown off your balance."
          But all the way down to Indianapolis he wore an excited look, and seemed so ill at
            ease, that Jennette  watched him with feelings she could
            never forget. When they reached the city he left her at a hotel and went to camp to get
            his papers made out for five weeks leave of absence. They took their wedding dinner at
            the Bates House, taking the one-forty train west, ariving at sister Ferrell's after a
            tiresome journey, and were cordially received, and everything was done to make time pass
            pleasantly.
          The weeks flew by on rapid wing; Cooper seemed all devotion, and when the five weeks
            had elapsed, he got a furlough to remain four weeks longer; for the regiment still lay
            with not enough men to complete it. He was allowed great privileges as he was an old
            soldier, and could be trusted; and the drill he did not need, so the time was passing
            pleasantly.
          Jennette had begun to think him one of the best of men; he was so attentive. They
            attended Operas and all other places of amusement. She began to wish he did not have to
            go to war, for she said it would be so nice to have a home and settle down, where she
            could be little mistress all by herself. He would tell her only a year was not long to
            be gone, then he would come home and they would just live for one another, and drink the
            cup of bliss that the future had in store for them.
          One day they took a walk, and visited a place of art. Jennette was greatly astonished
            at the wonderful things she saw in statuary, and came home to dinner with marvelous
            things to tell sister Ferrell. Never in her  life did she
            look better than on that day; her cheeks and eyes were all aglow, drinking in the
            beautiful. Her heart was light, everything so different from what she had anticipated.
            Jay was so kind, and never alluded to the past in any way, and seemed to think she loved
            him with the devotion he had longed for. And she said: "I do! I really
              love him ; he is so kind and has been so thoughtful of me in providing for me in
            case he should be killed! Oh, I will be all devotion. I will never, never allow myself
            to regret this step--not for a moment!"
          Sister Ferrell had provided a sumptuous dinner and had invited some of her aristocratic
            friends in. They were just in the midst of a social repast, when a boy was announced at
            the door. Ferrell met him. He handed her a telegram. She read, turned blind, then sick
            and faint. She leaned against the door for support. What could it mean? Was she the
            victim of a terrible and shameful deception? She went back to the dining room and said:
            "Jennette and Mr. Cooper, will you step into the sitting room a moment, please?" She
            excused herself from the table, telling Mr. Tindall to act as host and hostess until she
            returned, which would be but a moment or two; that Mr. Cooper had a telegram that
            demanded his immediate attention-- thus hiding from other eyes and ears the story of the
            great scandal that must shortly be known to all. She demanded an explanation for his
            conduct. He plead innocent as to what she had reference to. She turned  to Jennette, who was pale with excitement, and said: "Now,
            we have company here, and I want no scene on this occasion; but I must tell you that you
            are no wife. This miserable villain has imposed a false ceremony upon you, and you have
            lived almost two months with a man that is not and never will be your
            husband."
          Jennette staggered and uttered a shriek, then fell-- to all appearances, lifeless. By
            this time Cooper comprehended the situation, and had gained the street by a side door ;
            and before Jennette could be aroused, or anything done to restore her to life, he was
            gone.
          Mr. Tindall learned from Ferrell what had happened, when they took Jennette up stairs,
            putting her to bed, and administered to her as best they could, keeping it all from the
            guests. They knew something must be told as an excuse for their actions at dinner ; so,
            after some consultation, Ferrell said, "Leave it all to me;" and gliding down stairs
            into the parlor, where they had all repaired by this time, she said: "You will have to
            excuse me, for I have broken over all the rules of etiquette, I know; but Mr. Cooper had
            a telegram to appear immediately in the ranks of his regiment, and, of course, had to
            go; and it has completely prostrated my sister. She is very nervous, and I had to
            administer some remedies to allay her nervousness; and when she sleeps a little, she
            will be stronger and able to look on the matter as something inevitable and nothing more
            than she might have looked for at any time. They have been enjoying themselves so much
            since their  marriage that she had forgotten that they
            were liable to be separated at any moment."
          Thus wittingly she withheld the story of the great wrong, that must soon go flashing
            over the wires from Maine to California.
          The guests all expressed the deepest sympathy for the poor young bride; who an hour
            before was so buoyant in spirits and sparkling with wit.
          Mr. Tindall called on the proper authorities and had the papers made out for Cooper's
            arrest, but all search was in vain. When they at last found him, he was with his
            regiment which was almost ready to start on the march. They found they could not take
            him until he was discharged from the service; for the civil law could not arrest a man
            who was under military authority. And thus justice had to be suspended and the crime go
            unpunished until his military term had expired.
          Jennette was wild. Paint, if you can, the horror, the agony, the
            soul-crushing shame and humiliation of that awful hour. She clasped her hands and feebly
            crept upon her knees to seek solace from the great fountain issuing from a heart of
            love. But it seemed the heavens were as brass. No echo came trembling down the golden
            cord that bound her soul to Him who lives to pity and to comfort the distressed. She
            cried, "How long, O God, how long must I go unavenged."
          Night came on; the stars looked down from their heavenly home; the dew fell upon the
            sweet scented  flowers, whose fragrance the night winds
            carried to fan the cheek of the wretched girl and kiss the lips that tried to utter
            prayer; but wilder and wilder grew her mind, and when morning came no one would have
            recognized the happy bride of the day before.
          When Ferrell or Mr. Tindall would try to offer any word of consolation, she could only
            feel as Job did when his comforters sat by him with words of reproof, and she kept
            repeating in a wild and maniacal way: "He has robbed me of all that I prized most
            highly; he has sullied my character and untarnished name! He has broken my heart, and if
            I cry to heaven for justice, there is no help." She said: "Oh, what shall I do? I am
            alone and friendless--no father! no brother! no one to care for me. Oh, how could he,
            how could he thus break the vows he made to my dying father?"
          Ferrell wore a solemn and unsympathizing face, as she said: "This will throw a shadow
            over us all."
          Soon after the telegram, came a letter from her mother. Not the tender, loving letter
            it should have been, but a cold invitation to return home--explaining all she knew or
            could find out concerning the shameful deception. She stated the facts as they had been
            gathered by Duke Martin, who believed Cooper never had intended to marry Jennette. Going
            to the city, he called at the clerk's office and inquired for the date of Cooper's
            marriage license. Charlie Hayward's brother, who was clerk of the court, declared that
            if he was married, he had never taken out a license, and said:  "If Cooper has imposed a mock marriage upon that girl, brother Charlie will
            kill him; for he loved her as no man ever loved a woman before."
          Duke said: "I do not blame him, for I must confess I envied Cooper his happiness,
            myself."
          They concluded to go to work and ferret it all out, and they succeeded beyond their
            expectations. They found that the man who performed the ceremony was a private soldier
            from Cooper's regiment, and the landlady (?) who witnessed it was
            another soldier in woman's clothing. So, when they came home and told what had been
            discovered, a telegram for their arrest was at once sent, but it was soon learned that
            they could not be arrested while under military authority. The letter ended as follows:
            "We will have to suffer the consequences, until Cooper returns from the war. Until then
            we are left to bear up under it as best we can. Jennette, do not curse us as parents. I
            know and see, now, what we have done for you. But it is too late to make amends. And if
            you could teach a school, or something, where you are, until the excitement dies away, I
            would be so glad. I do so hate it. It is so
            humiliating."
        

        
        

           CHAPTER XI. JENNETTE GOES TO LIVE WITH HER UNCLE.
          
            
              When the last hope is dying,
              And life sinks apace,
              Leaving only the fragrance
              In the beautiful vase,
              How chill are the memories
              That creep through the mind.
              And desolate the future,
              With joys left behind.
            
          
          Reader, did you ever go to the grave of a loved one, and there, above the sod that
            contains all you hold most dear, mingle your tears with the dew-drops that kiss the
            grasses and bathe the humble violets that modestly and reverently bow their heads above
            that hallowed ground, and feel that if there is a God, he has ceased
            to feel for his sorrowing ones, or grown deaf to their supplications? If you have had
            such an experience, you can imagine Jennette's feelings on the reception of her mother's
            letter, which she read with trembling hand and beating heart, and when she came to the
            cold and formal ending, she threw herself on a couch and gave vent to heartrending
            groans. She could not find solace in tears, for it was a grief, or wretchedness, far
            beyond that. She repeated over and over again the sentence, "Teach a  school until the excitement dies away. It is so
            humiliating!"
          "Oh!" she cried in her anguish, "if yours is a humiliation like this, my mother, what!
            oh, what, do you suppose mine can be? and how do you imagine I could
            teach a school when my brain reels and seems on fire? My soul goes out to the God who
            gave it, only in one long inquiry, 'What can I, what shall I do?'" Then she fell back in
            a swoon from which she was not aroused, and hardly a sign of life could be detected, for
            hours, and when she was at last restored to consciousness, it was only to open her eyes
            and close them again with a shudder.
          Ferrell did all she could to arouse her to action and ascertain what she would rather
            do,--go home to her mother, or remain with her and try, for her sake and her friends, to
            brave it out and not yield to real heartbreaking. But Jennette begged to be left alone
            for a time to consider, and after some days' deliberation on the subject, she called her
            sister to her and said: "Give me a sheet of paper and an envelope, I shall attempt to
            write a letter."
          Ferrell inquired, "To whom?"
          Jennette looked up with a little more of hope in her eyes than she had yet shown, and
            said, "You remember how well Uncle Harvey Browning always loved me, do you not,
            Ferrell?"
          "Yes," she replied.
          "Well, I am going to write and ask him to come for  me,
            and let me keep house for him. He has lived alone as a widower for twenty years, and has
            often begged me to go and live with him, but I thought it too confining for one so young
            as I then was. But now," she said with trembling lip, "I feel that I could bury myself
            there, and find in him a father." Here she broke down, and gave vent to the most
            convulsive sobs and wept until she fell asleep from sheer exhaustion. She slept like a
            child, and awakened feeling much refreshed. She arose and dressed herself hastily, with
            a determination to try to stay up, and not give her friends any more trouble than
            possible.
          Her letter was sent, and in a few days she received a kind and loving one in answer. He
            was her father's oldest brother, a man of rare intelligence and magnanimity. He said:
            "Jennette, yours is a hard fate; I can say no more than this; I will come for you, take
            you to my home, where you shall preside as mistress, and feel that it is an 'ill wind
            that blows no one good.' And while I can hardly wait for Cooper's time to expire, that
            justice may be meted out to him, yet, I feel, too, that I have gained something, and you
            shall not want for anything. In time you will learn to love another, more worthy, and
            look back upon this as a thing of the past; and I trust your life may be made better by
            the experience."
          She felt glad to know he was pleased to have her come; yet she turned very pale when
            she remembered that before she went to him she had a secret to tell him  which might alter his notions somewhat. But, she said, "I
            will wait till he comes, tell him all, and trust to his kind heart for mercy."
          Only a few more days passed, but they seemed weeks to Jennette, before Mr. Browning
            made his appearance at the residence of Mr. Tindall. He was a tall, graceful figure, and
            his hair was as white as the driven snow, caused by the frosts of many winters. A pair
            of twinkling brown eyes, which age had not dimmed, nor stolen any of their lustre,
            peeped from beneath a pair of heavy eyebrows, and his step was as firm and quick as many
            a man of forty years or younger. He was ever kind and gentle in manner, and loved
            Jennette just as he had loved his own beautiful daughter, whom death had stolen from him
            years ago. They had lain her under the daisies beside her mother, a wife he had so
            idolized that he could never find another whom he thought worthy to take her place.
          So the sacred old arm chair had remained vacant for twenty years; and all that bound
            him to his home was the two shadows on the wall, a fair young girl of eighteen and her
            mother, these were ever dear to him, and the hallowed surroundings, such as the chair,
            the place at the table, and the old elm tree in the yard, under whose shadows they had
            so often sat and sung, and whiled away life's happy hours.
          He had lived isolated and alone all these years; but now his heart swelled with emotion
            when he thought of the sunshine Jennette would throw into his life and  the dear old home, with her presence and happy, congenial
            spirit. When sister Ferrell had repeated all the sorrow Jennette had experienced, and
            tried to tell him how much she was changed, he could not realize it until she led the
            way to her room and ushered him into her presence.
          He staggered at the sight, and seated himself in the nearest chair, while tears coursed
            down his aged cheeks in sympathy for his niece, whom he loved so dearly.
          She flew to his arms, threw her own lovingly around his neck and sobbed upon his breast
            so piteously that it wrung his tender, manly heart.
          He drew her to his heart and said: "My poor little Jennette, do not feel so dreadfully.
            Your name shall not be tarnished,--not in the minds of good people; he has only
            blackened his own life, not ruined yours."
          She drew his head down and whispered something in his ear that made him start and
            shudder. She saw it, and said, "Do you still offer me a home?"
          He took both of her small hands in one of his, while the other arm encircled her waist,
            and looking tenderly at her, his heart throbbing with a thousand emotions, and said: "
            Yes, Jennette, a thousand times, yes! for you need a father now much more than you ever
            did in your life; and I will be to you what my poor brother, your father, would have
            been could he have lived to know this. But it is better so. I feel now that it was well
            that death took him when it did; for this would have been the last straw; he never could
            have borne up  under it, knowing that he brought it all
            about, himself."
          "Yes, Uncle," said she, "But ah, he never, never knew how it would
            end!" And at this she began such a violent outburst of grief, that they were all
            nervously anxious to turn her thoughts into another channel.
          Mr. Browning began talking about their trip to his farm, away back in the old Hoosier
            state, and finally gained her attention, and she became somewhat composed; and the
            subject was not alluded to again by any of the family, until the time for their going
            had come.
          When the parting words had to be spoken between the sisters, there was a scene never to
            be forgotten by those who witnessed it. Jennette had to be carried onto the train, and,
            nestled away among pillows and cushions, looking so frail and so much the picture of
            despair, that all eyes were directed toward the fair young girl with the genteel old
            man, who seemingly was so attentive and devoted to her, and many were the inquiries that
            strangers made, as they were whirled rapidly homeward. But the shrewd old gentleman
            always found an evasive answer for them all.
          Before leaving home, Mr. Browning had engaged parties to go in, clean, paper, paint and
            fix his house up in nice style. Left orders to have it cheerful-looking, something to
            please a young girl's taste, so that it might look more home-like. His farm lay near the
            city of G---, and his residence was on a little rise of ground just in the suburbs. The
            ladies of that city had gone in and decorated the house with flowers --it  being July,--and many were the conjectures as to whom the
            lady was, he was having so much done for. Busy tongues were talking and more knowing
            ones nodded their heads wisely and said, "Just like an old man, to take a young
            wife."
          But those who had gathered at the depot to see him arrive and learn what the sequel
            was, were greatly astonished at the little frail waif he had brought with him, and so
            tenderly cared for. He introduced her as his niece to all who greeted him, and ordered a
            cab to take her home. On arriving, he hardly knew his old home. In a few days his house
            was thronged with callers, some of whom came out of curiosity, and many came through
            friendship, for the old gentleman had a host of friends and acquaintances all over the
            country round about.
          From all callers Jennette would have stolen away and hidden herself from the sight of
            every one, but her uncle said, "No, dear, treat them kindly, and they will have more
            charity for you when they come to know all. She firmly refused to return any calls, and,
            as a matter of course, the neighbors began to cease coming, and she found herself more
            and more alone as time passed.
          Her uncle's house was built after the old Gothic style, and had many rooms and spacious
            apartments, with winding stairs and an attic. But Jennette loved, best of all, the room
            she called the red room. It was an up stairs apartment, looking out from the west over
            fields of waving grain, now ready for the harvest; from 
            the east it took in a grand view of the city of G--; on the south was a long slope of a
            hill, where a grape arbor bore the fruits of a good cultivator. On the north side of the
            house a lovely flower garden met the eye, and wafted through the halls and rooms the
            sweet breath of all manner of flowers.
          Mr. Browning loved to look at the beautiful, and being something of a botanist, he
            cultivated rare flowers and shrubs, and had servants to keep them all in order, from the
            hay fields to the garden beds, so nicely bordered with delicate pinks.
          This room had been fitted up for her fair cousin Hermina, her uncle's idolized
            daughter, and Jennette loved to go there and recline on a luxuriant velvet covered
            couch, think, and think, till her brain would reel, and her soul flutter to be freed
            from the frail tenement-house that held it. While she lived and dragged on, day after
            day, she seemed to be dying, slowly but surely.
           Ah! what a comfort in this dark hour of her life, to find an old, tender, loving
            uncle, to care for her, as a father. Yet when the heart is learning some great lesson of
            submission, it seldom appreciates the crumbs of manna that fall so gently from heaven,
            and pour a soothing balm, tenderly but quietly into the wounded breast, that in time,
            would learn to heal. She could not realize the blessings, for the great burden of her
            heart; she felt that none on earth had ever suffered as she did, and her uncle began to
            be seriously alarmed about the  state of her mind. He saw
            that she was not right, and that she grew worse, day by day. He did all he could to
            engage her thoughts on different subjects, but to no avail. He wrote for her mother to
            come--he thought perhaps her presence would help throw off the spell that had come over
            her; but Mrs. Browning wrote in answer that she could not possibly come; for her heart
            disease had greatly increased since Jennette's trouble; and Minnie was teaching school,
            and could not come. "But tell Jennette not to act so foolishly; to brace up and look the
            world in the face--she has done nothing for which she should be condemned, therefore
            there is no use in her acting as she is doing."
          When Mr. Browning received the letter he was thunderstruck at her coldness, wondering
            in his soul how she could act so indifferently toward her youngest child, a daughter of
            tender years. He was mad! He threw the letter into the fire, and said:
            "Poor Jennette! she shall never know its contents, for it would only completely madden
            her brain. Now, I shall see her safely through all her trouble. No thanks to a
            heartless, unfeeling mother--and all this misery lies at her and my brother's door. How
            can she think of it without flying to Jennette and first asking forgiveness, then take
            her home and care for her tenderly."
          As the days wore on and the autumn was upon them, with its ripened fruits and
            yellow-tinted leaves, Jennette wandered about the old house, with its many rooms and few
            inmates--there being none to converse  with except her
            uncle. There were hired men on the place, who kept up the farm, vineyard and garden, but
            to these she never even spoke.
          Mr. Browning concluded he would go to a couple of ladies he had known for years and
            communicate to them the story of Jennette's trial and her present, suffering, and see if
            he could not solicit help and sympathy from their motherly hearts. He knew women of
            their age would be more companionable to her than girls of her own age would be. When
            they arrived, they were surprised and pained to hear how much the frail-looking young
            girl he had brought there some months before had gone through, and to know how much more
            she woold yet have to endure, before the world would cease to link her name with the
            traitor-villain who had brought her so much misery. Yes, they said, they would come
            often, visit her and do all they could to restore her to herself again. They said it had
            been such a query to all why the pretty little pale-faced girl had never returned any
            calls and always seemed to hide herself from every one. But now, to them alone, the
            mystery was solved, and they would keep it a secret, holding sacred the confidence he
            had reposed in them and try to prove to him that they were worthy of the trust. Mrs.
            Allen and Mrs. Miller--for these were their names--soon called, with cheerful faces.
          Mr. Browning had prepared Jennette's mind to receive them and expect in each a friend.
            She wore a  wild, haggard look, and seemed very shy at
            first; but after a short interview she broke down, and, throwing herself into Mrs.
            Allen's arms, gave vent to an outburst of tears, and said: "How much you look like my
            mother, and yet are not like her, because she never comes at all."
          Both ladies were in tears for her and told her she should find a friend and mother in
            them and that she must cheer up and not give way to so much grief, or she would rue it
            in the future, for it was likely to destroy her health completely.
        


        

        

          CHAPTER XIL CHARLIE HAYWARD IN THE FAR WEST.
          
            
              Have we a sorrow or trouble severe,
              We nourish and tend it with care,
              Lest a hope, like a thorn, might spring up in its midst
              And choke out even despair.
              Yet, a kind, loving hand we never can see,
              Until in mercy it sends
              Some dear one to cheer us and cause us to know,
              The heart cannot break while we've friends.
            
          
          Now, where was Charlie Hayward all this time? Jennette never dare ask. She felt that
            she must not even breathe his name; for she had told him she intended to carry out her
            father's request, if sorrow killed her in a fortnight. "But, oh!" she said, "how much
            sorrow we can bear and still live. I would not have believed I could have lived under
            what I now endure. But I am here, while Charlie, poor Charlie, wanders far away, I know
            not where and dare not ask; for I would not see him now for a thousand worlds like
            this."
          Charlie was wandering over broad prairies, through dense forests, sometimes riding an
            Indian pony, and then again with stealthy step was stealing a march on some wild
            animal--while his face wore the look of a man far beyond his years. He had gone to the
            Indian  Territory and had begun the study of medicine with
            a doctor from the o1d Hoosier state, a gentleman of excellent ability, with a splendid
            practice, whom, however, Charlie had never met before going there. After he had left the
            little village on the morning we have before alluded to, he never stopped short of this
            wild, new country, which he sought as a retreat from all who had known him. And now he
            was reading medicine during part of the day and hunting and trapping the balance of the
            time. He had learned to speak the Indian language fluently and was a fast friend to
            several of the tribes. He made his home with his preceptor, Dr. Lenhart, and was highly
            esteemed by the family-- especially by the only daughter, Buelah, a dark-haired
            black-eyed young lady of nineteen. She was very frail, and that was one reason the
            doctor had left his Indiana home for the western country, believing that a wild,
            out-door life was all that would save her from a consumptive's fate. She had her pony
            and hunting dog, and often took long rides alone; for she knew the civilized Indians all
            knew and loved her, and she knew they would defend her with their lives. So she would
            sometimes be gone all day, coming home late in the evening perfectly exhausted. The
            doctor would laugh and nod his head knowingly and say: "See, those cheeks are getting
            the roses in them, and that ugly cough has almost quit tormenting her."
          Charlie had been with the family several months, without seeming to notice, or realize,
            there was such a  thing about the house as a young lady.
            He ate, slept and went about his business in a very commonplace way, and always spoke
            pleasantly and cheerfully to all.
          Buelah was fascinated with the beautiful raven curls and bright black eyes, from the
            very first; but do or say what she might, she could never draw him into a conversation
            of any length, nor attract his attention-- let her fix her own beautiful braids as
            charmingly as she would or adorn her person ever so well. He seemed to be always
            meditating, she said, and he would at times wear such a pitiful look that she longed to
            go to him and tell him she was sorry if anything grieved him; and if he would but
            confide in her, she would do all she could to make him happy and drive away melancholy.
            But she knew that would not be the proper thing to do, when he was so distant toward her
            in manner.
          It happened, one day late in autumn, when she had fixed herself up for her last day's
            ride on horsback for the season, that Charlie came out with his horse at the same time
            her brother led hers up for her to mount. He regarded the occasion as one fit for a
            little gallantry, and tipping his hat to her, he said: "Miss Buelah, can I have the
            honor of a deer chase with you, to-day? or what is the game you like best to hunt?"
          The blush rose to her cheeks as she said: "It does seem that we are both in the same
            notion this morning. I love to chase anything that happens in my way--fox, wolf or deer,
            as the case may be."  He looked at her quite pleased, and
            said, "Capital! you are not after the manner of most of your sex, then, a one-ideaed
            woman."
          "Oh, no!" she said laughing, "you know it is said of us that we are notional creatures;
            and I, for one, do not admit nor deny the charge. If I should start out for deer, and
            see a fox, it would be all foxes."
          In a moment he mounted his horse and said: "Well, let's go, then, with the intention of
            being satisfied with whatever happens to present itself."
          "Agreed," she said, and giving her pony a touch with the whip, she bounded off, leaving
            Charlie considerably in the rear. He watched her fine figure and observed her graceful
            manner of riding, and said to himself: "If her hair was not black, she would be very
            much like Jennette. Why have I never seen that before? Her manner of talking and acting
            is like her, yet I never have seen it until this morning. What a stupid fellow I have
            been! But then,"--drawing a long breath--"I could see no one nor think of any one else
            but my golden-haired little Hoosier girl. But, alas, my dreams are all over, and I will
            look around me, for some one like her."
          So, putting the spurs to his horse, he was soon alongside of her. He noticed, for the
            first time, how bewitching she was; yet, a feeling of sadness would come upon him
            whenever he tried to think of her in connection with Jennette.
          She chatted gaily, and was acquainted with all the 
            Indian trails for miles; and as she proposed to go to the camp of a certain tribe that
            had been very friendly to her father when they first came to the Territory, Charlie
            laughingly said: "You lead; I will follow. I feel in a mood, this morning, to be
            led."
          They rode about two miles, crossing the Wachita river at a deep ford; as they passed
            through the water, Charlie remembered that it was in deep water he had once plunged to
            save the life of a little girl--one that he had afterward learned to love so devotedly.
            He rode on for some time silently.
          Buelah spoke and said: "'A penny for your thoughts, Mr. Hayward."
          This aroused him at once, and flashing his black eyes upon her, he said: "Excuse me,
            Miss Buelah, but that deep ford put me to thinking of how many deep waters we pass
            through in life, figuratively speaking."
          She looked at him searchingly, and said: "Mr. Hayward, you have a history; I see there
            is something that often worries you, and you seem to be troubled. You have no sister,
            you say; let me be your sister, in so much as to confide to me your trouble; perhaps I
            might help you out."
           He shook his head and said: "I think you would enjoy a deer chase better than to delve
            very deeply after my troubles--but say, yonder are the wigwams of your friends. What do
            you propose to do here, dine with them? or have you learned yet to eat soup with a
            wooden spoon, or those made of deer hoofs and horns?"


          

          "Oh, no, Mr. Hayward, I do not propose to eat with them. I only came to show them
            friendship, and let you see how peculiarly they manage things and to show you a young
            girl I have always thought was a white girl, painted. I want your opinion."
          "Which you shall have most assuredly," replied Mr. Hayward.
          They rode into camp, where they were greeted by many short nods and grunts, and
            presently the chief came out and shook hands with Buelah. She explained to him who her
            companion was, as best she could, and he asked them to alight and go into his wigwam,
            which they did, and found the young girl Buelah had spoken of, crouched upon some
            blankets. She looked up, pleased at the sight of Buelah; for she had often met, and
            loved her. Her eyes were deep blue, and her hair was light; yet she wore an Indian
            dress. Her speech was not like that of an Indian, and the chief seemed ill at ease all
            the time they were talking to her. They noticed his manner, and cut their visit short,
            and on riding homeward Mr. Hayward said, " Miss Buelah, you can depend on it, that girl
            has been stolen; she is no Indian. and we must look the matter up."
        


        

        
           CHAPTER XIII. JENNETTE'S SORROW AND MRS. ALLEN'S SECRET.
          
            
              How long in deep silence
              Our hearts may be stilled,
              With emotions that pant to be free,
              And only when met by sympathy's force,
              Can or dare we reveal the depths of remorse,
              That long thus chained had to be.
            
          
          While Jennette was suffering the agonies of a half crazed brain, and Charlie was
            roaming in the western wilds, where was Cooper, the author of all this heart-ache and
            misery? He was at home in his mother's own bed, hanging between life and death.
          The reader will remember that the war of the rebellion closed in the summer of '65. As
            Cooper's dark and deep treachery had never yielded him any pleasure, but on the contrary
            had tormented him day and night, he finally fell into a low grade of fever, which
            assumed a malignant form of chronic disease that the soldiers were sure to fall heir to,
            when once weakened by sickness of any kind; so that when peace was declared and the boys
            were mustered out of service, Cooper was too much prostrated to stand on his feet. He
            was sent to his own county-seat and from there he  was
            carried home on a litter, or couch of some kind, which had been gotten up for that
            purpose. Had he attempted to come home under any other circumstances than those of being
            almost a dead man, the people of the little village would have "hanged him high as
            Haman." But as it was, he lay for three months without a soul ever coming to inquire
            concerning him except Flora Arlington. She was ever ready with a nice dish of some
            delicacy to tempt his appetite, or would sit and read to him, for hours, until he
            finally told her to leave him to his fate, saying he could not esteem any one very
            highly who would notice such a wretch as himself. She felt much piqued at this, after
            having been his sole comforter, except his own mother and sisters, who cared for him
            tenderly, because he was their own flesh and blood--not that they felt right toward him,
            at all, for they all loved Jennette and were deeply grieved and much humiliated at what
            he had done.
          His mother felt even worse than Jennette. She said he was guilty of a deed worse than
            murder. She had never found it in her heart to ask Mrs. Browning where Jennette was, for
            it was an awful thought that two old widowed mothers should be grieved thus by her
            wicked son. And as Jay could find no one to talk to, he did not know where she was,
            either. Notwithstanding his awful crime, he loved Jennette for her noble nature, and it
            was eating into his heart like a canker.
          When his mother would allude to these things in any  way,
            he would put up a thin, emaciated hand and say: "Please, mother, I have suffered enough;
            do not reprove me so fearfully now; I can bear no more!"
          She said he was to be pittied for his short-sighted, jealous act.
          Charlie Hayward was wholly unconscious of Jennette's trouble. He had never written a
            word to any one, since he went west, not even to his brother John, who did not know his
            whereabouts. But he often wondered where Jennette was, and her tears and pale face would
            rise up before him, just as he had last seen her at her mother's gate, under the shining
            stars, Now, he supposed she was living somewhere with Cooper; but he could never think
            of her as a happy wife, for her words still, and ever would, ring in his ears: "I was
            yours the night you volunteered, and my heart is yours now--just as unchanged as the
            stars."
          "Oh," he would often exclaim, as he was riding in some lone woodland or setting a trap
            for an otter, or studying over books that were to make his after life so full of
            usefulness, "I do wonder where my little Hoosier girl is, and if she is happy, or if she
            has learned to love the man I hate--forgetful of me? Ah, well, it is
            better so, for I have no right to her love. And if she can love the man a cruel old
            father would bind her, by a death promise, to marry, it is the better for her. Poor
            little, kind-hearted Jennette, so self-willed and determined in what she believed was
            her duty and right."


          

          But what of her? It is now cold, bleak winter and Jay is recovering his former health.
            People who would have been willing to take his life some months before, were gradually
            getting over the bitter feeling. There was no father, no brother to interfere, and
            strangers learned to let it pass, just as they always do. Charlie was busy in the west;
            Jennette was walking the floor night after night, with the ever vigilant eye of Mr.
            Browning upon her. She had, from a child, shown great talent for composing--either prose
            or verse; and now that her mind was somewhat deranged, it appeared that she was brighter
            in that respect than ever before--so many and many were the beautiful poems she composed
            and the long essays she wrote during her hours of imprisonment.
          She appeared to take a great liking to Mrs. Allen, and one day, when they were closely
            closeted in the red room, Jennette's favorite resort, she told Jennette she must
            remember that almost every one had a history, but some carried all their grief alone and
            had no sympathy from any one."
          "Oh! Mrs. Allen, I wish I could carry my grief, and the world might never know; but you
            see I cannot!"
          "Well, Jennette, if you knew another heart ever suffered equal to your own, do you
            think it would be any solace to you?"
          "I do not think it would comfort me any to know any one ever had to suffer; but yet, I
            do not believe  any one ever did have as much to go
            through with, as it has been my lot to bear."
          "Well, Jennette, they say misery loves company; and if you will guard very sacredly the
            story I have to tell, I will commit to your keeping what I have never told any one--not
            a living soul."
          "Oh, Mrs. Allen, not to your husband?"
          "No! not even to him, and he above all others must never know. Can you keep it,
            Jennette? Can I, dare I tell you?"
          "Oh, Mrs. Allen, you have been so good, so kind a friend to me, that, surely, if I know
            my own heart at all, I would die sooner than divulge anything you would not have me
            tell."
          "Well, then, Jennette, when you hear my story, you will see that you could suffer even
            more than you have and still fill your place in the world."
          "Go on, Mrs. Allen, you make me nervous."
          " Well, to begin, I was a southerner by birth. My father owned a large plantation and
            many negroes, all of whom have been freed by this late war. But as he was then very
            wealthy, and I an only daughter, he resolved on a splendid marriage for me; but
            unhappily for me, I loved a young gentleman far beneath me in point of wealth; he was
            every whit a gentleman, and was studying law, (to become a lawyer.) We had often met,
            talked, and laid plans for the future; but we both knew my father's haughty spirit would
            never consent to our union; but Harry said: "Wait until I have  finished my course, and I gain a practice sufficient to yield a competency,
            and we will show him that all he can say will do no good."
          " So, many were the stolen boat rides, and long walks we enjoyed before my father came
            to know it. He was a hot-headed southerner, you must remember, and when he did find it
            out, he gave me my orders never to speak to Harry Fleming again, and told me I should
            marry a man of my own rank, and that he had, long ago, set his heart on another."
          "But I did not, nor never could love him, I said."
          "He grew furious, and said not to talk about love, that was all out
            of place when it came to a matter of importance like this; that he had set his heart on
            a splendid match for me, and nothing short of a millionaire would satisfy him."
          "I told him I did not love the one he had selected, and if I should marry for money and
            be unhappy all my days, what would life be?"
          "But he only grew more angry, and I walked away silently determined to never marry any
            one except Harry Fleming. The next day I met him in one of our favorite walks, and told
            him all my father had said."
          "He proposed a clandestine marriage, right away, which I, in my young, foolish
            girlhood, accepted."
          " So, in a few days, we stole off to a minister and were married; and had the minister
            and his wife swear secrecy to it. Then we glided along for some months; I often meeting
            him, and sometimes we would meet at  the house of a friend
            of mine in Richmond, and spend a week or two together. We had our special friends posted
            as to our secret, and it was surprising how long we kept it from father. But when at
            last he began to press suit between myself and this other gentleman, I felt I must tell
            him; and I felt, with Harry so strong and brave to protect me, I could brave his wrath,
            knowing that I would have to tell him soon, at any rate."
          "So I sought the most favorable opportunity of breaking the news to him, and told him I
            was Harry's wife, and how long I had been Harry's wife, and that in a few months I would
            be a mother. Oh, Jennette, I shall never, never forget what followed!
            It makes me chill and grow so nervous I can hardly talk; so I shall have to throw my
            shawl around my shoulders, for I am really shaking."
          "But, go on, Mrs. Allen, go on! I am growing nervous also--oh, how I pity you!"
          "Well, do not pity me yet, Jennette, wait till I get through. He turned white--almost
            the pallor of death crept into his face, and he walked up to me, took me roughly by the
            arm and said: 'My girl, you will repent this rash act all your life. Come with me.'"
          "He pulled me along to a small room, thrust me in, stepped in and locked the door, and
            then said: 'Do you know what I am going to do with you?'"
          "I said: 'I do not see what you can do! I am his lawful wife, and my husband can claim
            and protect me at any moment, and will!'"


          

          "He sneered at me and said: 'Now, never say my husband again, until
            you call the man I want you to marry, husband.'"
          "'But, father,' I said, 'I cannot marry any man; I am not free.'"
          "He said, 'Silence! you idiot; do you suppose I shall let matters rest this way? No!
            you shall go down to Georgia, to my brother's plantation, and when you are yourself
            again, you shall be George Allen's wife."
          "Mrs. Allen, you shock me so. Do you mean to say you married Mr. Allen against your
            will?"
          "Yes! But wait, Jennette, do not interrupt me, till I am done. I cried, wrung my hands
            and begged for mercy. I asked him what would become of Harry?"
          "He said: 'Never mind! I'll fix him!'"
          "I said: 'Oh, father, do, please do not hurt him; I do love him so truly, he is so good
            and so kind!'"
          "'Hush, Anna!' he cried, 'he is a low, dastardly coward; for this crime and disgrace,
            he shall suffer justice at my hands!'"
          "I fell, and for a long time knew nothing. When I did come to, I found myself shut up
            in a dark room, and once a day a servant brought me something to eat. After several days
            in this way, my father came to me and said: 'Are you getting enough of this dungeon?' I
            said: 'Where is Harry, father? '"
          "He said: 'Never breathe his name again! I've fixed him! So make up your mind to go to
            your uncle's  and stay until you can come home yourself
            again and marry George Allen.'"
          "Oh, Mrs. Allen," exclaimed Jennette, throwing her arms around her neck, while they
            mingled their tears together, "do not tell me any more. It is making you look so pale,
            and you are shaking so."
          But she said: "No! no! Jennette, I have never told the story before, in all these
            years, and now I seem to be living it over again. But I shall go on; you must know just
            how much one can suffer and live. My father saw that he had gone too far; so my mother
            was called to the rescue. She determined to have the family doctor called, after which
            they never said anything more about my going to Georgia, but shut me up there and, as I
            afterwards learned, to tell the world I had been in Georgia for months. Well, it was in
            this dark attic that I saw for the first time a wee baby girl--with hair like gold and
            eyes as blue as the heavens, and all the world would not have tempted me to have given
            her up for an hour. She was just like Harry, my own dear husband."
          "But as I would sit and look at her by the lamp light,--for that is all I ever saw her
            by--the light of day never peeped through to rest on the lovely babe I called my own,
            not for a moment. I wondered what next my hard-hearted father would do with me; and the
            thought of what he might, or in all probability had done with Harry--it was killing
            me."
          "He would not let my mother come to my dark  chamber,
            more than once a week, then he stood by while she could do nothing but sob, and cover my
            babe and myself with kisses. I did not dare ask her any questions, for I felt I was
            occupying dangerous ground. I feared to say more to him, least he might take my babe
            from me, too."
          " When it was just six weeks old and would look at me and coo and laugh, and it was all
            the world to me, he sent my maid one day and said for her to tell me that my mother
            wanted to hold it, and have it awhile in her own room. I was loth to let it go, but was
            afraid to tempt his wrath, and reluctantly gave it to her after kissing and pressing it
            to my heart; for somehow I felt that it would be the last time I should ever see her--
            and it was."
          "Oh! Mrs. Allen, you don't tell me they took your baby, too?"
          " Yes, Jennette, my mother told me afterward that he gave it to a Mrs. Shaw and her
            husband, who were going to Texas. They had never had children of their own. My father
            gave them a thousand dollars for its education, if it lived, if it died they were to
            appropriate the money to their own use."
          "But your husband," cried Jennette, "where was he, that he allowed such things to take
            place?"
          "Well, my father and his secretary worked up a scheme against him. They hid some
            valuable jewels in a box, somewhere,--I could never find out just where-- and by getting
            false witnesses to swear against him,  proved him to be
            the thief, and he was sentenced to serve twenty years in the penitentiary. When all this
            was done, he sent for George Allen, the man you know as my husband, who lived in New
            Orleans, and knew nothing of this dark deed. When he came I was brought out of my
            dungeon, and with a solemn vow that if I did not appear bright and happy, and marry him
            and go north, never telling him anything of what had been done, I should be shut up in a
            cave in a mountain, and the world would never know what had become of me. So I felt
            while I had light and freedom, there might be a chance to some day at least find my
            babe, and if I should, no husband would or could stand between us. But I have lived
            without her for twenty years, and poor Harry's time is up, and I am George Allen's wife;
            but of Harry and my baby Fern, I know nothing."
          Jennette caught her hands and said: "Oh! Mrs. Allen, I shall bear my own lot with a
            better heart now; I will try to be stronger, for heaven knows I could never suffer more
            than this. The suffering you have endured has made me braver."
          "Thank God, then, if my suffering has bettered any one else, I feel it has not been in
            vain."
          "Oh, I do not wish you to understand me to feel gratified at the sufferings you have
            undergone, Mrs. Allen, but it makes me feel as if I ought to endure mine less
            complainingly."
          "Well, Jennette, this all happened down in old Virginia 
            twenty years ago; and I hope in twenty years from now you will have a brighter history
            to reflect on than I have. If I only knew where to find my baby, I could die in peace. I
            married Mr. Allen much against my will, and have never felt as if I was his wife. There
            is no child between us, and I feel that I was bound to Harry Fleming by the sacred tie
            of a sweet baby girl, who is now twenty years old, if she is living. My prayers to God
            all these years have been, 'give me back my baby.' Will he ever do it?"
           "Oh, Mrs. Allen, I have almost lost faith in prayer. I have so earnestly prayed that
            God would come to my rescue, but still I stand as a stricken tree, and the storms of
            life must pass over me. If I fall, may I be saved in the judgment is my prayer. But I
            feel like one in the dark, and since I heard your story, I feel more so; for surely, if
            there is a God, he has heard our prayers and knows, as for us, we would never have
            wronged any one. Then, why does he allow us to go unnoticed? Mrs. Allen, my father was a
            very devout man, if he did make one great mistake in his life, which he doubled in his
            death by placing a lock, as it were, upon it. Yet, I love, and shall ever cherish
            fondly, his memory. He taught me, very early in life, to believe in the Word of God with
            all my heart and to rely implicitly on its promises. I have made it quite a study and
            presume you will rarely find one of my age who can quote more scripture, or expound it
            more readily, than I can; yet, of late, my heart is given to doubting. I  have become so unbelieving I cannot look up and ask
            anything through faith any more. I have so often asked, nothing doubting, and have
            received no favors, that at last I have given it all up."
          "Well, Jennette, I at one time fell into a doubting state of mind, after I had so
            earnestly asked God to soften my father's heart and cause him to relent before he
            compelled me to marry Mr. Allen; but after I found that no answer came to my prayers and
            that the trap he had laid for Harry proved successful to his purposes and they had him
            sentenced to the penitentiary for twenty years, I saw my hopeless condition, and the
            disgraceful one I must occupy should I proclaim my marriage with him, that I just gave
            it up, and they led me to the altar, with no love, no hope, no faith in God in my soul.
            But, Jennette, my longing to see and press again to my heart, that sweet baby girl, has
            often softened me, and caused me to kneel down and ask that the privilege might yet be
            given me to see her once more--and Harry, poor Harry, it would not do for us to meet
            again."
          "Now, Jennette, I trust that my story may settle your mind as to one thing--that there
            are others living to-day, who have gone through even more perhaps, than you have, or
            ever will be called on to pass through. And now, cheer up, and bear your lot bravely,
            for you will find that life may long be borne ere sorrow breaks its chain; and the
            braver we can meet trouble, the less  impress it leaves on
            the face; and you are young yet, with life all before you."
          "Yes, Mrs. Allen, I shall try, now, to control my mind, and call in this wandering
            heart and try to live to find your baby for you. If I live, nothing shall separate me
            from my child; and I make a vow to you, that if I am spared, I will find yours."
          "Oh! poor child; you must remember my baby, if she lived, is twenty years old now, and
            may be a wife and mother, who knows?"
          "Be that as it may, perhaps you can find child and grandchild all together."
          " Oh! what a meeting that would be." And here the child-like Jennette and the strong
            matured woman, wept together at the very thought.
          "Now, Jennette," said Mrs. Allen, "this is the last of a dark December, and the world
            looks very cheerless; and I must go to a cheerless home. While I do not love my husband,
            I respect and pity him. I pity him because I have never been the wife he desired. I know
            it; yet he never told me so. But father made me vow never to divulge my secret; and
            while I have all that this world affords to make me comfortable, I am wretched, and he
            dare not know it. We came north the next day after our marriage, and now you know my
            story; but no one else ever dreams of such a thing."
          "Well, I shall never tell."
        

        


        

           CHAPTER XIV. THE BABE AND THE RETURN HOME.
          
            
              It was such a little waif, they said,
              But ah! she loved it well,
              That mother heart could not express,
              With its deep, deep pangs of wretchedness,
              The unbounded love within her breast--
              For no tongue could ever tell.
            
          
          The dark days of December fell like a funeral pall over the life of Jennette, and had
            it not been for the kind, motherly attentions of Mrs. Allen, she would have gone insane;
            and perhaps a mad-house would have been her home. But she was ever reminded by her presence that another heart had suffered, perhaps more, if possible,
            than her own.
          Thus time passed, until one night in January, the old family physician was called, with
            Mrs. Allen and her friend, Mrs. Miller, and when the morning looked in upon a little
            pale, young girl, with eyes closed, and all present feeling that the angel of death
            stood at the door, behold a tiny baby boy lay nestled among flannels, and Jennette
            Browning was its mother. Four days the old physician looked serious, and only shook his
            head at whatever questions might be asked him. But at last  one morning he came in and taking both her hands in his, said: "My little girl, open
            your eyes and look at me." The lids quivered and slowly they opened and a look of real
            comprehension came into them.
          He observed her looking pleased, and he said, "You are as bright as a dollar this
            morning, arn't you?" She sighed, and wearily closed her eyes again.
          He then said, "You have a nice little boy here; what do you call him ?"
          At this she again opened her eyes and said: "Little boy? where is he?"
          He told Mrs. Allen to bring the babe, which she did, and when Jennette looked on her
            child for the first time, she wept bitter tears, and said: "Let me kiss the little
            helpless thing whom I shall never abandon for money nor shame's sake." Mrs. Allen laid
            its little head upon Jennette's arm; she kissed it, saying, " My baby! my all! we will
            live and die together; your father has done a wicked thing, but you, my sweet babe, are
            not to be discarded."
          The dreary month of January passed by, and Jennette was slowly growing stronger, with
            her faithful friend, Mrs. Allen, in daily attendance upon her. Mr. Browning wrote to
            Jennette's mother, and she wrote back for Jennette to come home just as soon as she
            could and bring the babe, that Cooper was in town and his mother said he would marry her
            lawfully and cover what he had done. When Mr. Browning read the letter,  he concluded he had better give it to Jennette and let her
            do just as her heart dictated.
          She read the letter and turned white--so very white that her uncle handed her a glass
            of water, saying: "What is in the letter that pains you so, Jennette?"
          She was silent for a moment, then gave vent to a burst of passion such as he had never
            seen before in her; and never in her life did she feel as she did at that moment. She
            said, in a voice hoarse with passion: "I wonder what kind of a being my mother thinks I
            am? Is it possible she would have me humble myself the second time with the wretch who
            has stolen all of this life from me? No! No!" she cried, walking the floor of her
            apartment, "I'll die first! I consented to become his wife once, against my will, that
            she might be satisfied, but now I'll fight such a condescension as this until my head is
            gray. Jay Cooper told me once, he would see to it that he would humble me until all the
            trouble I had ever seen would be but a drop in the cup as compared to the great ocean of
            sorrow he intended to plunge me into--and he has done it. But he will see that he can
            never bring me down  at his feet. I will take my own life, and that of
            my babe's, before he shall claim us as his own now! No, uncle, I will face the world
            alone; I shall earn my own living and support my boy--in whose hands I will place a
            pistol and have him take the life of that cowardly villain, before he comes to the years
            of accountability, and I will stand on the gallows for it, if any one needs suffer."


          


          Her uncle was frightened at her wild eyes and face and her strong language. He had
            never seen her so wild-looking nor heard such threatenings fall from her lips before,
            and he said: "Calm yourself, Jennette, do not get so excited, dear, for you do not have
            to go home nor marry Cooper either, as long as your old uncle lives."
          "Yes, uncle, as soon as the fine spring weather comes, I shall go home to my unfeeling
            mother. I will take my babe, and she will love it, I know, and she and sister will keep
            it for me while I go out into the world to earn a living."
          "No! No! Jennette, let me, out of my abundance. support you and your child," said Mr.
            Browning, with trembling lips.
          But her eyes flashed fire as she said: "No! I'll never look to any one; my own hands
            shall support me, and I'll show Cooper that I'll live without any of his help; and
            mother will live to love my babe and repent more fully her great folly in depriving me
            of the only man I ever loved or ever can love."
          After the storm of passion had subsided, Jennette threw her arms around her uncle's
            neck and sobbed upon his breast, begging him not to think her ungrateful for all his
            kindness and tender care, and said: "Dearest of uncles, let me tell you, if possible,
            how I feel. I feel that to stay here to hide myself from the world would be a cowardly
            act. I must not flinch, but go out and face this heartless world and pave the way (18)
               for this dear babe. I want him to grow up a more
            honorable man than his father, and perhaps I may yet live to see the day that he will
            reap the laurels I fain would have worn in the way of an author, or fill some honorable
            station in life. I will not sit down idly folding my hands, knowing "there is no
            excellence without great labor." I shall not allow his humble birth to stand between him
            and success, for now all I have to live for is my boy, and I shall do all in my power to
            make his life a noble one; and, uncle, should I ever live to see him love, he shall have
            his heart's idol. That will be the crowning victory of my life."
          "Brave, noble little girl, I think I read a soul in you that few women possess. I love
            you for your courage and principle; but oh, my dear niece, you have no idea of the
            impediments you will have to combat before that little babe becomes a man."
          "Yes, uncle, I have weighed matters well. I know I shall have the finger of scorn
            pointed at me, which will be very hard to endure, with my proud spirit, but perhaps God
            intended this humiliation to teach the lesson of life that nothing else could teach. Oh,
            uncle,why do we have to suffer such afflictions as this ? Things over which we have no
            control--why does he allow it, or does he love to chasten us in fierce anger, that good
            may come?"
          He brushed her shining braids of gold, while his eyes looked the tenderest pity upon
            her, and said: "Jennette, I have often asked myself these same  questions, since I have had all that made life worth living taken from me.
            But, my child, it is better that we do not question God's motives, for since the heavens
            declare His glories and the earth speaks in silent language His goodness to the children
            of men, we must believe He loveth whom He chasteneth, and accept His promises as
            sure."
          "Surely, then, He loves me, uncle, for was any one ever more chastened than I?"
          "Yes," replied a voice.
          Turning toward the door, they saw a woman standing there. It was Mrs. Allen.
          Jennette sprang to her side and said: "Oh, forgive me, my faithful friend, others have
            been more sorrowfully chastened and tried. I have my babe, whom no power but death can
            snatch from me."
          Mrs. Allen, not wishing that anything further should be said, replied, "Yes, you have a
            sweet babe, and I came over to see how soon you anticipated going home?"
          "I can not tell, exactly, but will not start until the fine spring weather comes in
            real earnest. Uncle Harvey wants to accompany me home, and for his sake, and my babe's,
            I want to have nice weather for my journey.
          "Then it will be fully six weeks."
          "Yes, I presume it will be all of that."
          " Well, I want you to let me name your boy, and I will give you a nice present for the
            privilege."
          "You surely have bought that privilege long ago. I owe you a debt of gratitude I never
            can repay; so you  may give him a name,--for, as yet, I
            have not thought of a name other than baby."
          "Let me call him a short, simple name, that can not be nick-named; I would suggest the
            name of Guy."
           "That's very pretty, and a name I have heard but once before, and loved it ever so
            much."
          "I am glad, Jennette, for my heart was set on that name, because in childhood I had a
            little playmate whom I loved so fondly that the name has been indelibly written on my
            memory ever since."
          "You shall have the pleasure of hearing him called Guy, then, for he shall have no
            other."
          Mrs. Allen gathered the babe to her breast and burst into tears, and kissing it fondly,
            said: " How much like a little babe I once held to my heart and called my own,--blue
            eyes and light hair; oh, Jennette, I do trust that no one will ever take it from
            you."
           "That can never be done! Mrs. Allen."
          " I felt just the same way, Jennette, but you see I'm childless to-day, with no will of
            my own, while, perhaps my child may be living, an unhappy woman, longing for the mother
            she will never see."
          "Oh no, Mrs. Allen, do not say that; don't you know I told you I was going to find her
            for you?" Jennette said, smiling sadly.
          "Ah! my poor girl, you will go away and soon forget me and my baby, in the love and
            care of your own."
          "Never! Mrs. Allen, you do not know me. I am one that if I never do forgive or forget a
            wrong, I remember  a kindness as well; and your kindness
            to me shall not go unrewarded, neither shall your painful story be forgotten; and, aside
            from my own responsibilities, I shall be looking after your lost loved ones."
          Many were the close conversations they enjoyed together, while the pewit and the blue
            bird were making the budding trees ring with their joyous songs, and mother earth was
            changing her white tapestry for a green velvet carpeting, that warm sun's and gentle
            rain drops only made the brighter, and Jennette was getting ready for a return to the
            old home, where so many sad events had taken place in so short a time.
          The day at length arrived when she must say goodbye to her tender and loving motherly
            friend, Mrs. Allen; and as they kissed each other the last farewell Jennette said:
            "Remember, you shall have your baby back, if I can be instrumental in the hands of
            Providence."
          Mrs. Allen shook her head doubtfully, and waved her tear-stained handkerchief after her
            as the train left G---.
          It was a sad hour for all concerned, when Jennette arrived at her mother's door; but
            little Guy was welcomed and at once immersed in tears and kisses, to which he only
            opened wide two large blue eyes and laughed, as if he meant to be happy if no one else
            was.
          It was but a short time before all the village knew of her arrival. Everybody
            came--some through love and sympathy, others from curiosity. Among the many  was Jay's mother. Oh! how she wept when she took the little
            babe in her arms. She said, "Jennette, please, do not feel unkindly toward me, for I
            have suffered all that a mother could; and Jay is very penitent, says it was all from
            love of you that he committed his awful crime, in a fit of jealousy, and that he is now
            willing to make it all right by legally marrying you; and he is wanting to see you and
            this dear little boy so badly."
          Jennette drew herself up to her full height, and with pallid face, said: "With all due
            respect to you, Mrs. Cooper, I must forever condemn and hold far from me your son, but
            do not let it bar you from myself or this child. I want Jay Cooper to forever know, he
            has done what will never be forgiven by me under any circumstances or through any
            feigned repentance he may assume. I want him to come once and see his son; I think the
            sight of that laughing face will haunt him the rest of his life."
          The old lady bowed like a frail shrub in a storm and murmured: "My son! my poor
            misguided son! Would to God you had died whilst a babe like this! Then memory would have
            held only one little grave, while now it must hold a villain."
          Jennette's tender heart melted in pity for the sorrowing old mother, and she threw her
            arms about her neck and said: "This does not alter my feelings toward you. I will be to
            you a daughter and you may be to me a mother."


          


          "Jennette, I have loved you as a child for years and only hoped to see you my daughter,
            but I suppose I shall never enjoy the pleasure of realizing the anticipation."
          Jennette's heart was deeply touched with pity at these tender expressions of a mother's
            sorrowing heart, but firmly fixed in her purpose, she went about from day to day, with a
            will to undertake whatever her hands found to do, not asking any one for help or
            assistance in her struggle with life and poverty.
           The reader will remember that her father was not a man of wealth but just a moderately
            well-to-do Indiana farmer. About two years before his death, he sold his farm and
            invested in stock, all of which had to be sold at his death. Mrs. Browning not being
            capable of managing such a business and being somewhat involved, it took a large portion
            to settle all claims. Therefore she was left with just enough to purchase a little home
            in the village, where they had resided for some time, and this threw them upon their own
            resources for a livelihood. Jennette, feeling the great responsibility of the situation,
            was willing to do all she could to bear her part. Her sister Minnie taught school the
            year round, only resting for a vacation of two or three months during the hot weather.
            Jennette overtaxed her strength working, and with heart and mind too full for utterance,
            she fell into a weak, nervous state, from which her mind began to show symptoms of
            insanity. The family became alarmed,  but it was useless
            to try to divert her mind from the deep, thoughtful, silent mood she had fallen into,
            and it was then she loved to write, for it was a part of her nature to love the pen and
            give vent to her feelings on paper. Sometimes she would sit up all night and write,
            write, write. She could not be induced to lay down her pen. She said she was writing the
            history of her own life and that of Mrs. Allen, and she intended, through the
            publication of her work, to find Mrs. Allen's husband and child.
          Jay came, one evening, to see her, when she was least expecting him. It appeared to
            arouse her from her reverie as nothing else had done for months. When he entered the
            room, she was at her desk writing, but when she looked up and saw him, she threw down
            her pen and stepped before him with a wild, unnatural light in her eyes and demanded of
            him what he wanted. Her look and voice, so changed, affected him so strangely that he
            fell forward in a dead faint. She looked down at his ghastly face and laughed a kind of
            wild, hysterical laugh, and turning caught up her child and left the house. Her mother
            ands sister administered some restoratives, and when he had gained consciousness, he
            asked for Jennette. Her mother sought and found her with her babe pressed to her heart,
            with a scared look on her face, and she whispered: "Has he come for my babe?"
          Mrs. Browning had hard work to convince her that he had only come to see them both and
            that she must  go to the house and see him and let him
            know she would not run from him nor fear him.
          This was the chord to strike, and she braced herself up and said: "Yes, I must let him
            see how well I care for my boy without any of his help." So she proudly walked back to
            the house and into the room where he was sitting, white with emotion, for, as yet, he
            had not lost all heart; and he realized what an awful hour it was to meet the one he had
            loved and wounded to a living death by his villainy.
          He arose upon her entrance and held out his hands toward her, but she instinctively
            drew back, supposing he wanted the little boy she held in her arms, and looking at him
            with a wild stare, she said, "Never, Jay Cooper, you can never touch this child with
            your polluted hands. He shall not be defiled by you, you whited sepulcher. I never loved
            you; I know now that I never did, although I persuaded myself to believe that I did, in
            order to please my parents. But you know better. You knew whom I did love, and it was
            the revenge you swore upon me that you have so exultantly enjoyed. And now, I would have
            you remember from this very hour, that I hate you with all the hatred of my very soul,
            and should you ever cross my path in any way again, through life, or attempt to take
            this baby boy, your life shall pay the penalty! Now, go, I spurn you as I would a viper.
            I have carried out the will of my parents to suffer the rest of my life, and I do not
            want you to ever dare come in my presence again."


          

          Mrs. Browning said, "Jennette, let me reason with you a moment."
          But she turned upon her so fiercely, and said: "Silence! mother, silence forever upon
            this subject! I'll listen to nothing! I have suffered enough!"
          He arose and said: "Jennette, I would love to hold in my arms and kiss that sweet babe.
            And I would here beg your forgiveness upon my knees, and the rest of my life be your
            willing servant, if it would avail with you."
          But she said, "Go sir, go! I say, and dare not attempt an apology, for I see the same
            evil look about your eyes I saw long ago, whenever I did not do as you wished, and now
            heaven and earth could be moved as easily as I could on this subject; so I shall add no
            more words."
          Jennette then said, "Mother, if I pretended to fill a mother's place, I would kill the
            assassin of my daughter, instead of sympathizing with him." And she proudly swept out of
            the room.
          Mrs. Browning could not help feeling the justice of the rebuke, and said: "Mr. Cooper,
            you have caused me to suffer greatly, and Jennette to be a miserable girl; so I can not
            find it in my heart to press her to marry you. She will have to follow out the dictates
            of her own will, now, so you must leave my house never to enter it again." Yet she felt
            that she would love to see the scandal, as she called it, covered up with a marriage
            with him, at last.
          But Jennette seemed to grow stronger in mind and  body
            from that very hour. The doctor said it caused the reaction she needed, and she was
            herself again; but she must not return to hard labor.
          This seemed to Jennette a matter of necessity, therefore she cast about her for light
            employment and found a situation with the village milliner; she was to learn the trade,
            at a small salary for her work. This she accepted, and worked late and early, learning
            very fast how to trim hats, leaving her babe in the care of her mother.
          But unfortunately for her, the milliner was a village gossip, and all the talk she
            could pick up concerning Jennette was poured into her ears, losing none of its coloring.
            She would sometimes cry all night over things some one had said about her, then work
            hard all day, and it was telling fast upon her health.
          Flora Arlington had told some one that Jennette had got on her knees to Cooper, when he
            went to see her, and begged him to marry her, and that he had positively told her he did
            not love her, and never would marry her.
          To her, this was a very humiliating thing to have in circulation among the friends who
            had known her proud spirit and firmness in resolution. She could not endure that any one
            should believe her weak enough to stand on the floor the second time, or even think of
            marrying a man that had wronged her as Cooper had.
          All this, together with her hard work, threw her into a hard sickness, from which she
            did not recover for  many days; and it took all she had
            been able to save for many months to pay the doctor's bill.
          One day when she was feeling just as badly as a sensitive nature like hers could feel,
            there came an express package from her uncle and Mrs. Allen. Her uncle sent her fifty
            dollars, with a great many nice dress patterns to be made up, and some cunning shoes for
            baby Guy; Mrs. Allen presented her with fifty dollars also, and a suit of little fine
            clothes, all worked in silk floss by the hand of a French lady, with just the trimmest
            little hat to cover his flaxen head.
           Jennette was wild with delight, and said: "Oh, how can I ever repay those dear ones
            for all their kindness to me?" She wrote them a tender letter of thanks, saying that she
            realized now better than ever before what a blessing it is, to receive tokens of
            friendship when one is in trouble, and she told Mrs. Allen that she wondered now all the
            more how any one could bear the afflictions the latter had suffered, bound to secrecy,
            and denied the consolation of a friend, as she had been.
          Mrs. Allen wrote back to her that she had promised to make her a present for her baby's
            name, and said: "No thanks need be offered for the payment of a just debt."
          Jennette paid her mother liberally for keeping her babe and caring for her, and said:
            "Now, I shall have to tear myself from him, and go to the city to work at my trade,
            because I cannot work as I have to here, and bear all I do, for such small wages. It is
            killing me,  and no pay. So, mother, you keep Guy, take
            good care of him, and I will pay you for it."
          She began making up the dresses her kind uncle had sent her, and when they were done,
            she, with many tears and heartaches, kissed her baby good-bye for a few weeks and went
            to the city and hired out as a clerk and milliner in one of the largest millinery
            establishments in the city of Logansport.
        

        

        
           CHAPTER XV. THE PROPOSAL, THE WARNING DREAM AND THE
            DESERTION.
          
            
              How often in dreams and visions we see
              A fate that awaits us, which, if only could we
              But turn the warning and accept, but to be
              Made better, and truer, and from error set free.
            
          
          How useless it would be to attempt to describe to the reader the lonely hours, the
            sleepless nights, the fond yearning of the mother heart of Jennette as she tried to stay
            away from her babe in order to gain means of support, whereby she might attain the fond
            desires of her heart--the maintenance and education of her son, independent of every
            one.
          There was no railroad running from the city to the little village of B-- where her
            mother resided; therefore she was compelled to ride in a mail hack running between the
            two places; and often she was insulted and treated very ungentlemanly by drunken and
            worthless men, who sought conveyance in the same vehicle. But as she was loved by her
            employers, she staid three years in one place, which caused her to often travel that
            road, and how often she suffered reproach from people's 
            tongues for thus riding, and how many times she almost perished with cold, none will
            ever know; yet, nothing daunted, she would come home every few weeks to see her boy, who
            was growing like a little man, and as he was smart above the average of children, he was
            both a help and comfort to his devoted grandma.
          During her stay in Logansport, she met with many trials, one of which we must not fail
            to chronicle here. While she was busily engaged from morning till night, there was a
            handsome gentleman of some thirty years, who had his eye upon her. He had his office in
            the same building, and was a practicing physician, and studying for the ministry.
            Believing that the soul required a balm that his medicines could not give, he desired to
            go forth girded and equipped for the work of saving those whom the malady of sin had
            sickened.
          Thus he devoted his time to the study of God's word, often calling on Jennette in the
            store to get her assistance in settling some dispute on a bible question, or getting her
            views on certain scriptures, which she always gave with so much clearness and undisputed
            ability, that he came to look on her as a great help to him, in solving knotty
            questions. He often went to her with some passage that seemed to him unexplainable, and
            she would tell him that the veriest school boy ought to understand that.
          He said: "How clearly you seem to draw knowledge from a book so hard to understand in
            all its parts."
          She laughingly told him that she had looked forward  from
            a child, to the day when she should preach; and hence, the way had been paved by closely
            analyzing the knotty problems. She said she had long since given up the idea of
            preaching, and had grown hard-hearted toward the Christian world, not allowing herself
            to take or hold to any doctrine in particular.
          Mr. Blackburn, for this was the gentleman's name, became infatuated, and soon he began
            making his preference for her company noticeable. From this she shrank with great
            caution; not feeling confidence enough in any man, to allow one to approach her in the
            way of love-making. She knew too, that he had never heard her history; that he did not
            dream of her having a child at that time four years old, and she felt that she never
            could tell him. But he kept pressing his suit until finally, he asked her to become his
            wife. She felt sick at heart, for she had striven hard to avoid this very step, and
            looking him full in the eyes, said: "Mr. Blackburn, have I ever encouraged you in any
            way? "
          "No!" he replied, "you have rather discouraged every move I have made; but I have
            become so wretched in living in suspense, I was determined to know my fate at once. You
            are just what my heart desires, Jennette, I want a helpmate, as a minister. I shall soon
            leave here for the Hawkeye State, and I want you to go along. Will you?"
          She said, "Sir, if you knew everything, you would retract all you have said; you would
            say I would not do for a minister's wife."


          

          "Why, Jennette? I can not see why I should have cause to change my mind. I have seen
            you here for the past three years, and to my mind you are all that I desire for a wife.
            Give me room to at least hope some time to gain you."
          She paused for a moment and then asked him to come the next evening and let her tell
            him her story, and then, if he still asked her to let him hope, she would give him the
            desired answer.
          The next evening found him at her side, and with a full heart she poured out all her
            life's trials to him, and when she had done, he said, "Poor girl, how much you have gone
            through and what a brave woman you are. You see, I am no school boy. I am now upwards of
            thirty, and have never loved a woman well enough before, to ask her to become my wife.
            And now nothing shall stand between us if you will only say yes; for that little boy
            shall be tenderly cared for in the home I provide for his mother. You shall educate him
            in the manner you so much desire, without killing yourself to do it. I have enough for
            us all. Say we take the boy and go to Iowa, and find a snug little home where we can be
            happy. Will you, Jennette?"
          He took her hand and found she was trembling, and asked her why she seemed so agitated.
            She burst into tears and said, "Mr. Blackburn, your kindness toward my son completely
            wins me; yet I want to tell you, I am afraid I can never give you the love you so richly
            merit with such a heart; for, as I just told you, I have 
            loved a man as I can never love again! But, if you will take me with a deep grateful
            heart for your kindness, and treat my boy kindly, giving him the education I have looked
            forward to, I will say yes to your proposition."
          "My dear Jennette, you are mine ! for I feel that one so devoted to her child, and one
            that has proven so true to a promise made to a dying father, will prove affectionate to
            the living, if kindly treated; and the kindness of my nature shall be proven to you in
            the happy years that are to come."
          They talked a long time of the past and of the future, and both seemed to be extremely
            happy. Jennette looking much happier than she had ever appeared to Mr. Blackburn before.
            He said, "I believe you love me more than you care to let me know, Jennette; I see it in
            your countenance."
          She laid her hand on his arm and said, "Mr. Blackburn, I am afraid I am a little
            selfish, for out of the abundance of your great heart, you have offered me your first
            love, myself and my boy a home and protection; whlie I am looking forward to my son's
            future more than anything else. But you must forgive me for all this, for he has been my
            soul's idol for so long that I can not have a thought but that he is the center, and now
            the prospect of his happiness, no doubt, makes my eyes wear the lustre you see."
          "Well, Jennette, I will give you time to reflect, and when you cease to think about the
            future of your son,  perhaps you will learn to love the
            giver, or donor of all this happiness you look forward to."
          Jennette looked down, and, toying with a pencil she held in her hand, said, "I am more
            like a child than a woman. I wonder how you can care for me."
          He laughed, and putting his arm around her waist, he drew her to him and for the first
            time in his life, kissed her lips, saying, "There is the secret of the whole matter!
            Jennette, it is your open, frank, childish nature, that first inspired my heart with
            love for you. And now, do not think me jealous of the love you bear your little son; I
            enjoy the thought of your loyalty to him; it portends a bright future for me. I want a
            loyal-hearted woman, and I shall have her; one who loves her country, her honor, and all
            those whom God has given her to love and care for.
          "Now, Jennette, we will meet again soon; but for to-night, I must kiss you good-bye,
            hoping you will learn to love me as I have you,--watching you, and studying your
            nature."
          She kissed him good night and went to bed, with a lighter heart than she had carried
            for years. She knew he was an exemplary man, by reputation, and she felt that her
            victory over Cooper would be complete should she get both a husband and father for her
            child, who stood unspotted before the world. And to get away from those who had rejoiced
            at her downfall, would be bliss beyond expression.
          Days glided by on swift wings. Mr. Blackburn  began to
            talk of the day which at last was fixed--a Sunday morning in the month of October. The
            ceremony was to be performed by the minister of the Presbyterian church at Jennette's
            boarding house. She had sent her mother money to prepare a nice dinner and have just one
            family as guests. To that family Mrs. Browning communicated the fact that Jennette was
            to be married to a man who was to become a minister in Iowa, but begged that they should
            say nothing about it, which they promised to do. But unfortunately for all concerned,
            Mrs. Browning was taken very sick, so bad that she had to send for Jennette to come home
            and take care of her, as her sister was far from home teaching.
          On receiving the news of her mother's illness, she sent for Mr. Blackburn and told him
            the wedding day would have to be postponed awhile, as she was called home by the illness
            of her mother.
          He looked sad and thoughtful, and said: "Jennette, I fear you will take the same
            disease your mother has, and die, for I do not like the dream I had last night."
          "Why, what did you dream? But first let me tell you my mother's sickness is heart
            disease, and I am afraid she has overworked herself since I wrote her of our intended
            marriage. There is nothing contagious about her sickness. I will settle matters in this
            way now: when she is better, I will write you, and you can come there and we will get
            married at home."
          He said: "Perhaps that would be better. Yet I must  tell
            you my dream. I thought we were in a beautiful park, and while we were having a pleasant
            time I said to my sister: 'Chase Jennette through that open place in that ledge of rock
            over there, and I will climb to the top and reach down and catch and scare her as she
            goes through,'--which I did, and when I grabbed at you, you fell back among dead people
            that were all a mass of corruption. I thought I screamed for sister to help me, but I
            caught hold of your clothing and drew you out of the pit into which you had fallen, and
            lo! you came up pure and clean, not one bit of the terrible stuff clinging to you, and
            just as I was trying to descend the bank I looked and saw two dogs coming-- one a large
            and one a small one, but both having men's heads on their shoulders. I felt them grab
            you out of my arms and I screamed for help, but no one came, and I saw them carry you
            off to a graveyard, I in hot pursuit. They dug a grave and buried you, right before my
            eyes, and I could not help myself. Then they laughed loud and long, while I wept and
            wrung my hands in mortal agony. But they guarded the grave so fiercely that I could not
            get near it, and in my awful anguish I awoke, and to-day I have been so troubled I could
            not work. I have not visited a single patient nor read a word."
          Jennette looked frightened at his agitation and replied: "Perhaps it was only a token
            of our having to postpone the marriage. Yet it brings to mind  my
            dream--I had not thought of it before."


          

          He took both of her hands and eagerly inquired what it had been.
          She said: "I dreamed that I was about to be married to some one, but could not exactly
            tell whom; but quite soon my sister said: 'There he comes, and is an Englishman; do you
            see the robe he carries over his arm with the ensign of England?' I looked and beheld a
            fine-looking man with a large lion on a buggy robe, or something, that hung on his arm.
            I thought he came in hurriedly and asked me if I was ready. I told him my clothes had
            not yet come. He pointed toward the door, and said: 'Look there, they are bringing
            them.' But, to my great horror, they had them in a black velvet-covered coffin. And when
            they opened it and gave the garments to me, they were all pure white. I said: 'Why did
            you bring them in a coffin?' I thought there was a large man and a small one. The small
            one stuck his head in the door, after they had stepped out, and said: 'We brought them
            in a coffin, because this is the end of buried hopes with you, madam.'"
          "Oh, Jennette," gasped Mr. Blackburn, "the little man and the large one answer for a
            small dog and a large one, and I greatly fear there is trouble ahead for us, but nothing
            but death can come between us, and the dreams, I fear, both point to that."
          But she consoled him by saying: "This is Tuesday, and Sunday we were to have been
            married. Well, perhaps mother may be so in a day or two that we can be  married at home at the same hour next Sunday--who
            knows?"
          "Well, Jennette, I do hope we may not be disappointed, but those dreams affect me
            strangely, indeed."
          He went with her to see her on the hack, placing twenty dollars in her hand, if money
            should be needed for anything, and would not listen to anything but that she must take
            it.
          She went home with dark forebodings, but found her mother better and sorry she had sent
            for her. The lady to whom Mrs. Browning had committed the secret of Jennette's marriage
            could not keep it. She had to tell her best friend, of course, and, as it was rather
            exciting news, that friend told  her friends, and so it went until it
            reached Cooper's ears, who then and there resolved that the marriage should never take
            place. So he sought out a man, much larger than himself, who was, if possible, a greater
            villain than he, and hired him to go to the city with him to poison the mind of
            Blackburn against Jennette, if possible; if not, they were to kill him and hide his
            body.
          They left Thursday to do their villainous work. Jennette had just written a letter the
            same day to tell Blackburn to come the next Sunday, when the wedding might take place,
            as her mother was much better. He had not received the letter when a note was handed
            him, asking him to come immediately to ----- Hotel, room No. 2, Sixth street, and
            receive information about the woman he was about to make his wife.


          


          Of course this aroused in him a wonderful anxiety to hear what the stranger had to
            communicate, and accordingly he went over to the hotel and met two men, a small and a
            large one. The small man began in a very timid manner by saying: "What I have to tell
            you pains me, because I know you are deceived in a woman I myself was once deceived in;
            and, as I am the father of her child, allow me to use great freedom of speech."
          Blackburn suddenly grew pale and said; "Go on, I will hear you through."
           Cooper said: "No doubt you think Jennette is at home with her mother, but you are
            greatly mistaken."
          "Where, then?" stammered Blackburn.
          "She is in a house of ill-fame in Indianapolis. I saw and talked with her last night;
            she was laughing how she had you duped, and I came here for the express purpose of
            telling you, that you might not be a wrecked man. This gentleman I brought with me will
            testify to all I have said."
          Mr. Blackburn staggered back, caught at a chair and said: "Thank you, gentlemen, but I
            have lost all in this hour; I have lost all that made life worth
            living, and my faith in woman is forever gone."
          He looked so white and distressed that even those heartless men felt sympathy for
            him.
          Cooper, fearing he might hunt Jennette up and find out the truth, said: "What do you
            intend to do, Mr. Blackburn?"


          

          "Pack my valise and start to-night for Iowa; to-morrow's sun shall not find me
            here."
          Cooper said: "That's the best thing you can do, and I will go back home and tell her
            mother just where she is. I pay her well for keeping the boy."
          How terribly this fell on the ears of the man that had loved Jennette; yet, how rashly
            he acted, never stopping once to consider the dream nor to think that a man so vile as
            Jennette had said the father of her boy was, might deceive him. He thought of only one
            thing, that Jennette had so fearfully deceived him, and the woman that had appeared in
            his eyes as perfection, was nothing--worse than nothing!"
          He went back to his boarding place and walked his room for an hour and cried like a
            child; then, with due regard for her mother, he sat down and wrote the following
            lines:

          
            
              
                
                   MRS. BROWNING:-- 
                  I feel terribly. My hand can scarcely trace the lines that duty compels me to
                    write. Doubtless you will find tear-stains on this paper, for they fall like
                    rain; but I must tell you that your daughter, whom I so much admired and
                    loved--God only knows how well--has deceived me so greatly I can scarcely live
                    under the shock to my feelings. I supposed her at home, taking care of you
                    during a spell of sickness, which she pretended that she had gone to do, and I
                    was anxiously awaiting a letter to tell me you were better, or well enough that
                    we might be married under your roof next Sunday morning. But, to-day, the father
                    of her child sent for me to come to a hotel where he was stopping, and he had a
                    gentleman with him that verified his statement, and they said they had met
                    Jennette last night in a house of ill-fame--which appears  to me the most terrible thing of all things that could be thought of
                    for both mother and lover to endure.
                  Now, when you read this, I shall be far away. Never again could I behold the
                    face of the woman in whom I have had such unbounded confidence. Tell her, oh,
                    tell her for me! I shall pray for her that God may not abandon her and leave her
                    to die in her great sin. That she may yet repent and be saved, is my prayer.
                    With many tears, I am of all men most miserable.
                   J. BLACKBURN.
                
              
            
          



          He arose after reading the letter and handing it to a boy to mail, packed his trunk and
            took the midnight train, and was gone, leaving Jennette's tender missile lying in the
            office, which, if he had called for and read, would have cleared the mists away, and he
            would have seen at once that he was the victim of Cooper's vengeance; yet, perhaps his
            life would have paid the forfeit.
          Reader, you doubtless feel loth to look in upon Jennette, when she opens and reads the
            letter she knows to be directed by Blackburn's own hand to her mother. For some reason,
            she felt cold and nervous when she first looked at it and saw it was from him to her
            mother; but, hurrying from the office to her mother, she opened the letter and read the
            words that crushed out the last remnant of hope in her heart. It was too great for
            tears; she neither wept nor spoke again that evening.
          After reading it, Mrs. Browrging went into paroxysms of grief, but Jennette took up her
            little boy and sat down and amused him, pressing him tightly to her breast in her
            agitation. He kept asking: "Mamma, what makes you so white, and so still?"


          


          But she only shook her head and said, "Be still, darling."
          When she laid his little head upon the pillow that night, she sank on her knees and
            said: "Oh God, what have I ever done to merit all this!" then laid her
            down to think, think, all night, and get up the next morning, with
            despair written on every feature.
          Her mother was never so sorry for her before; she said, "Twice,
            almost killed by the same man. Oh! that we had never seen him! And she realized for once
            how much better it would have been to have let her marry Hayward."
          Jennette tried hard to appear to others the same as before; but she found she could not
            do it, and she said: "Mother, I will go to my friend, Mrs. Doris, in Ohio, and stay with
            her; she wants me to run a millinery store for her, and when I get all things in running
            order, I will come back and get Guy, and just leave this country, where I have seen so
            much trouble. Perhaps Cooper will never find me; for one more stroke from him will end
            this miserable existence of mine. I mean to keep my head above water as long as I can,
            for my dear boy's sake. God says: 'Vengeance belongeth to Him, and He will repay.' I
            shall leave Cooper in His hands, hoping it may come speedily."
          She left home for Cleveland, Ohio, in one month after the reception of Blackburn's
            letter. We will follow her again after we go back and see what Charlie Hayward has been
            doing all this time.

        

        
        
           CHAPTER XVI. CHARLIE TELLS THE STORY OF HIS EARLY LOVE.
          
            
              Then this life shall lose its shadows,
              When a star of hope shall rise,
              To guide our wandering footsteps ever,
              By the gently flowing river
              Of pure friendship undisguised.
            
          

          But what of Charlie Hayward? We must now go back to the morning in which he and his
            lady companion found the fair-haired girl in the Indian camp, an inmate of the chief's
            wigwam. It was on this memorable morning that Hayward first discovered the likeness of
            Jennette Browning in the person of his dark-haired companion and friend, Buelah Lenhart.
            After he had made that discovery, he watched her more closely and sought her society
            with a growing interest, and many were the long rides they took on horseback, over the
            lovely rolling prairie, which was dotted here and there with bunches of wild flowers, a
            little crisp at this time, on account of the cold north winds that had come to chill
            vegetation a little, while the old Hoosier state was wrapped in a white robe of
            snow.
          Charlie was growing more and more interested in the  wild
            western scenes and the different tribes of Indians with whom he traded--largely in
            furs--and of whom he was learning many valuable things in the way of medicines, storing
            them away in his memory for use when he should get back to the states, as a practicing
            physician. It was among the tribe of the Chocktaws that Buelah had first seen the
            fair-haired girl before mentioned and of whom they were now talking during one of their
            horseback rambles. Hayward was struck with her kindness of heart, as he heard her tell
            of the many plans she had often laid to get the girl away from the old chief and not
            awaken anger in his heart toward her; but she said she had always failed in every plan
            she tried to adopt, and asked him to help her lay some scheme that they could carry out,
            and get the girl back to civilized life.
          Hayward was moved to sympathy with the efforts of his gentle companion and was also
            deeply concerned in regard to her of whom she had been speaking, and he promised to
            render her all the assistance in his power. He then fell into deep meditation which ran
            about as follows: "She would be a ready sympathizer, and if I find her to be
            true-hearted, as I begin to believe, I will tell her all my trouble yet. I could never
            love her-- but her presence and influence helps me to throw off this melancholy that
            seems to have taken possession of my whole being, and some day I will tell why I have
            been so silent and morose since I have been with them."
           Buelah at last broke the spell by saying: "Mr. Hayward, 
            you seem to be a man that has experienced a deep sorrow or has been the victim of a
            great wrong--I cannot discern which,--but your actions at times go to prove you are in
            trouble, somehow."
          He aroused himself quickly and said to himself, "I might as well tell her at once, for
            my face is telling it all, anyway." So he said: "Well, Miss Buelah, you are right and
            have well guessed. I have indeed experienced a deep sorrow and have suffered a great
            wrong; and, as you are a young lady, who, I believe, possesses both brains and heart, I
            will give you a brief history of my past life, that you may more easily understand my
            dejected manner since I have been with you. Well, to begin with, I lost my mother at the
            age of twenty-one and had no relatives except two brothers, who are now living in the
            dear old Hoosier state. I was a lonely young man, feeling I had lost all that loved me.
            One day, when I was wandering idly along the shore of the old Ohio river, shortly after
            my mother's death, I met her of whom I am about to speak--a little girl of twelve
            years,--and it was under peculiar circumstances. She had been accidentally thrown out of
            a boat, as she and her companion, a boy of tender years, were making their way up the
            river, and I came up just in time to rescue her from drowning and carry her home to her
            parents, who expressed the deepest gratitude for my kindness. I somehow could never get
            rid of the form and face of that little girl. As I have before said, I was in my
            twenties, she but a miss of twelve. I went  away from that
            place for months, but I could not stay, I had such a desire to see more of her. Going
            back, I found her grown taller and more shy, but just the sweetest little girl in all
            the world to me. I kept going to the house of her parents and kept close by them, until
            she was just blooming into womanhood; then I sought to make her my wife. I found her
            love to be strong for me. Just at this time, the war broke out between the states; and,
            as my politics were Democratic and her father was a Republican and an abolitionist, he
            forbid me coming to his house, and I was shut out from her whom I loved better than all
            else in this wide world. He would not allow her even to speak to me. Notwithstanding
            this, we met several times clandestinely. But what seemed so terrible to me was that he
            forced her to go with and accept a man she could not love, but, on the other hand, hated
            with all her heart--at least, I believe she did. But she was too gentle to hate any one
            as I do those I can not love or who have wronged me. In one of our clandestine meetings,
            she persuaded me to go to the war in order to reconcile her father--she believing it
            would; but I did not think so, yet I went, both for the love of my country and my lady
            love. We swore eternal devotion to each other, and I served three years faithfully and
            true, while my poor little girl was forced to yield her hand --but never her heart, Miss Buelah--to that despised man whom her father had chosen for
            her, and dying in the meantime, he bound her by a promise in his dying  hour, to marry his choice. She is living some where with
            him to-day, a poor, unhappy wife, while I am wandering here in these western wilds,
            striving to forgive the dead and learn submission to the cruelest fate man ever knew.
            Oh, how I hate the man she was compelled to marry--not that I feel the jealousy of a
            lover, but he is such a villain, so unworthy of such a lovely young lady. I left the
            country just before the wedding was to take place and have never written a word back to
            any one--not even my brothers know anything of my whereabouts. I could never bear to
            hear from there after I lost my little Jennette. That was her name, and this is the
            first time I have spoken it to a living soul since I parted with her at her mother's
            gate. She told me she would marry that man and keep her promise to her dying father, if
            sorrow killed her in a fortnight. But every letter in the name Jennette is engraven on my memory as with a pen of fire, and neither time nor
            tide can ever efface it. Now this is my story, and I hope I at least have your sympathy,
            Miss Buelah."
          "You have, indeed, Mr. Hayward. Your story is a strangely romantic one, and I feel that
            I should have loved that gentle lady. What a yielding disposition she must have had!
            Now, I could never be forced to marry a man I could not love." And she flashed her black
            eyes up to Charlie with such a determined look that he saw at once she was not like
            Jennette, for she would resist when pressed to do a thing she did not feel  disposed to do, simply because she was willfully
            selfish.
          He said: "No, Buelah, you are of a very different temperament. While you have black
            hair, black eyes, and are firm to the purpose of your own will, her hair was like fine
            spun gold and her eyes like the calm, blue sky after a gentle rain--yet, she could not
            be moved from what she believed to be right and her duty. It was the promise her dying
            father had wrung from her that held her so firmly to that awful purpose. She is
            self-sacrificing, kind of heart, preferring to make others happy rather than herself.
            Poor, poor little Jennette! I would go at any moment if she needed me--if I knew that he
            whom she calls her husband were proving unkind to her--as I know he will! Yet, I should
            not meddle with them, and this is why I have never written back there to any one. I could not, dare not learn of her distress and remain inactive!
            Therefore, you see, it is best I should not know."
          Buelah said: "Well, Mr. Hayward, it is best for you to turn your thoughts in another
            direction. You see fate has decreed that she shall never be your wife, and perhaps you
            might find some one whom you could love as well, in time."
           "No, Buelah, I gave her the strong love of manhood. I was a man in years and, I trust,
            a man in principle, and it is not likely that a love which has fastened itself so firmly
            upon the mature mind can ever be uprooted. But I shall try to be more cheerful and look
            for companionship elsewhere, from this time on. But we have  already ridden too far; it is getting late, and the north wind is chilly. We must
            turn our horses' heads homeward."
          "So they wheeled around and galloped in the direction of home--she musing the while
            upon what had been told her--both silent with their own thoughts, hers running in this
            wise: "What did he mean by saying he would look for companionship elsewhere? He asked me
            to sympathize with him; does he care just a little for me?"
          She dare not hope, yet her heart yearned for his love, for she had known him long
            enough to love him for his true manliness and honest worth.
          He was wondering what manner of wife Miss Buelah would make, and if she could teach his
            heart to love her enough to make her such. But he shook his head and dismissed the
            thought, breaking the silence by saying: "Buelah, we must be looking after that young
            girl in the old chief's wigwam, must we not?"
          "Yes," she replied, "I have been thinking a great deal about her of late; I believe she
            is a poor, unhappy creature and is guarded so closely that she can find no way to
            communicate to us white folks the cause of her staying among the Indians, and she is
            pining, no doubt, to be freed from such a bondage."
          "Yes, I believe, myself, she is there against her will, or she would not be guarded so
            closely. I wonder if I could trade the old chief furs and ponies enough for her
            release?"


          

          "Ah," said Buelah, "I have thought of many plans by which we might get her away from
            him, but I must confess I never thought of one like this. No doubt, with just whiskey
            enough and your generous offer, you could get her; for an Indian loves whiskey better
            than anything else, and it is the only way by which you can make a successful trade with
            one of them."
          Charlie laughed and said, "Miss Buelah, you have not lived among the Indians so long
            for nothing; you have learned some of the essential points, I discover."
          "Yes, I have learned that whiskey is an essential to every low and mean act among
            Indians, as well as white men. But white men, being a little the shrewdest, or perhaps
            having better control over the appetite, keep from drinking when about to make some
            important trade, while the Indian controls neither appetite nor brain and has no thought
            but to drink and let business take care of itself."
          "Why, Miss Buelah, you philosophize upon us men in a very matter of fact way; are we
            deserving of no credit for Christian principles?"
          "Yes, sir, whenever you exercise such, but the poor Indian, with all his wild,
            uncultivated life, far surpasses the white man in honor; as far as concerns my own sex.
            I will venture to say that that old unchristianized chief will never compel that young
            girl to become his wife, or in any way bring dishonor upon her. Now, I could not say so
            much of the professed Christian white man."
          "Why, Buelah, why should you be so skeptical  towards the
            civilized portion of mankind, when I feel as great an interest in trying to rescue that
            girl and place her where she might receive the advantages of a civilized life, as you
            possibly can."
          "Well, Mr. Hayward, there are exceptional cases among white men, and allow me to say
            that I believe you are one of them."
          He looked at her, and the rose tint that came into her cheeks, as she spoke, told him
            at once that she admired him, and he asked himself the question: "What if that frail,
            gentle girl should love me? I should regret ever having met her, for I could only pity
            her, but never love her"--and he guarded all that he said more closely that she might
            not think for a moment that he cared for her only as a friend.
          He spoke tenderly of the poor girl of whom they had just been talking, and said: "What
            should we do with her if we should succeed in getting her away from the chief? Do you
            think your father would admit her into his family for a short time--until we could get
            her a home among kind people--some place where she can have the advantages she must
            surely need? Then if she proves the intelligent girl I believe her to be, she will soon
            make her own way in the world."
          "Yes sir, I do. My father is a very kind-hearted man, and always ready to do a
            charitable act, and I'm sure he will not falter in this case. We have often talked over
            the matter since we met her there, about a year ago; but he was afraid of offending the
            tribe, and  calling down the vengeance of the whole race
            upon our heads, should he propose to them a release for her. Indians are a very
            revengeful set; they never forget nor forgive, what they think an insult or an offense
            of any kind, and do not hesitate to visit vengeance upon the helpless children of the
            parents who have wronged them. But I think if your plan is rightly executed, we shall
            succeed without any difficulty, in obtaining her freedom; and father will give her a
            home. But here we are at home now, and I am not sorry; for I feel tired and chilly after
            my long ride."
          Charlie helped her to alight, and expressed a fear lest they had ridden too far, and
            exhausted her strength. He said: "Your father will think me a very thoughtless man,
            while I must say I have merited the censure."
          But she laughingly said, "Who was more to blame than myself? I do not often have
            company in my rambles over the prairie, and time, to-day, sped very fast, and we went
            much farther than I anticipated at starting. But I will run in now and order supper for
              two while you feed the ponies; I will see that it is brought up all
            right."
          Charlie laughed and said: "A woman's wit helps men out of many dilemmas--does it not?
            You taking half the blame relieves me of half the censure for our long ride."
          She looked back over her shoulder, her eyes sparkling in a bewitching manner, and he
            realized that she had strangely impressed him. He said to himself: "I  do not love her--I am sure of that; yet
            there is a charm about her, after all, that I cannot understand exactly. But, pshaw!
            what's the use of me thinking of her? She is just a nice, little, bewitching girl, that
            is calculated to captivate some young chap with an untrammeled heart; but a man of my
            age that has given the love of his youth to another cannot be touched so easily." And he
            walked from the barn to the house in a thoughtful mood, yet, with a feeling of greater
            anxiety to be within its four walls than was usual for him to experience.
          He entered with a brighter countenance than he had ever worn since he had been among
            them, and found Buelah snugly ensconced in the old arm chair, her feet drawn up under
            her and looking just a little tired. But upon his entrance she began laughing and asked
            how the smell of fresh venison and corn cakes affected the appetite of a Hoosier, after
            a long day's ride over a wild prairie?
          Charlie smiled cheerfully, replying that "Hoosiers appreciate good victuals above all
            other people, for back in old Indiana is where people live to eat, and grow
            healthy."
          Mr. and Mrs. Lenhart looked at each other knowingly, believing Mr. Hayward had become
            infatuated with the charms of their idolized Buelah. She, flattering herself with the
            happy thought that he at least cared for her as a friend, said to herself: "Who knows
            what time may bring about--now that I am constantly 
            thrown in his society ?" He, thinking as he ate the well cooked supper, "What a pleasant
            family and what a charming girl Miss Buelah is--if I could only forget one that rises
            before me every time I try to think of the one present."
          They joined in giving the parents a glowing description of their long ride. Dr.
            Lenhart, looking rather serious, said: " Buelah you should not have gone so far dear,
            you are not strong enough yet. I know the out door life you have lived since you have
            been here, has made you much better; yet, you have room still for improvement in your
            health."
          She laughingly declared she was so surprised that the usually quiet Hayward could talk
            so fluently, when he tried, that she forgot herself in the pleasure of his
            conversation."
          Charlie said to Dr. Lenhart: "I have been here so long among you, and have been such a
            stupid, morbid kind of a fellow, that I am surprised that you have not shipped me long
            ago, and taken in some one that would appear to appreciate your kindness to a greater
            extent than I have done. I had concluded on coming here, that there was no one to be
            found out here in this wild country, that had any knowledge of society or even a heart
            to be touched with feelings of pity for a poor unfortunate; but allow me to say I have
            given your kindness to me due appreciation, I assure you, and I hope you will all join
            in offering me a free pardon for the little estimate I have placed upon the society of
            one  who has proven such a companionable friend and
            awakened me to a new idea of what settlers in the wild west may be. I find that they may
            prove great blessings in disguise."
          Dr. Lenhart said: "Mr. Hayward, the pardon you ask is granted. We have watched you with
            much interest, believing that some great sorrow lay at the bottom of your sadness."
          "Yes," he said, "but I shall feel and act differently from this time on."
          Dr. Lenhart and his wife looked at each other inquiringly, as much as to say: "How
            could he resist the charms of our fair Buelah?"
          Hayward was more cheerful that evening than they had ever seen him before. They brought
            up the subject of the white girl in the Indian camp and talked over its different phases
            and the best plan to fix upon for her release. All joined in saying that Hayward's plan
            was the best that could be devised. He was to begin the search for the best furs, the
            next morning, and to look out for the ponies most likely to meet the old chief's
            approbation. The arrangements all being made, they retired one and all, to be up by
            morning light.
          Dr. Lenhart was an early riser. His two sons, Otho and Glen--young gentlemen of
            eighteen and twenty, who had been in Missouri the past year going to school and who were
            now at home studying hard, late and early, preparing to enter school again in a few
            months  --were always up before day, making good use of
            the time allotted them. They spent their days securing wood from the woods, some ten
            miles distant. This was a task the old doctor said he kept in reserve for the vacation,
            in order that they might develop muscle as well as brain. Thus their time was spent in
            the most judicious manner possible. They, too, entered with a zest into the plans for
            liberating the poor, unfortunate girl. Otho, the eldest, playfully remarked one day,
            while in conversation with Hayward upon the subject: "What if I should meet my fate in
            that young lady? Buelah describes her as being quite charming, and you know such young
            ladies are scarce here in this western country."
          Hayward laughed and said: "Well, Otho, we must capture the game before we make any
            conjectures as to its worth or what we will do with it."
          "Oh, certainly, but you know, Mr. Hayward, one can talk of the probabilities, if they
            can never be attained. And now that I feel a double interest, I will join you in your
            search for furs. I can trap as good game as any one and have had two years' experience
            with an old trapper since I came west. He is dead now, and I have missed him sadly. He
            used to often spend his evenings at our house, and was a great story-teller; and being
            ignorantly superstitious, he could tell some of the most fearful tales of this wild
            country. Why, it makes me creep yet, when I think of how I used to sit and listen,
            spellbound and afraid to stir, for fear of  some
            hobgoblin. You know boys are very brave fellows when the sun shines and no danger is at
            hand, but miserable cowards when dark comes with its shadows and make-believe witches
            are abroad and ghosts are near."
          "Yes, Otho, I know every freak of a boy, as I was one myself once and have experienced
            just such feelings as you speak of--but I was just thinking, as I have secured some
            handsome furs in the past few days, that it would be well for your father, you and
            myself to go over tomorrow to see the chief and make the desired proposal."
          "Agreed, Mr. Hayward, but would it not be well to take the ponies we have here and the
            furs along? We might get her at once. You see, to help her out is to not let her half
            die first. This is cool weather, and we should see to it that she is fitly provided
            for."
          "Yes, you are right, Otho, and we will make the arrangements to-night and be off in the
            morning."
          When evening had come, it found the family gathered about the old log fire, talking
            over the prospects of the morrow. Buelah was wild with delight at the thought of a young
            girl in the house for a companion. She even planned long rides and a visit to the
            village, some fifteen miles distant, where she would introduce the beautiful girl to
            some of her lady acquaintances. Her father laughed at her, saying that if she had been
            long among the Indians, it would take time to get her accustomed to civilized life and
            she would have to have  the advantages of an education,
            before she could go into society.
          Charlie said that if she was quick to learn, Buelah would soon have her under good
            cultivation, and he did not think it would be long before she would be a pleasant
            companion for her.
          Thus, the evening was passed pleasantly--and profitably, too, for each one having some
            suggestion to make, helped to mature a well devised plan by which to work.
          When morning came, Buelah was up with the sun, with a heart full of eager, earnest
            thought concerning the business of the day. She wanted to accompany the party to the
            camp, but her father said no, they had no idea themselves of what the visit would be
            likely to terminate in, and she must not go this time. So she quietly contented herself
            with seeing them start off on the mission she had so longed to see some one undertake.
            They made direct steps for the camp, found the old chief rubbing his hands before a
            cheerful wood fire, and the fair young girl preparing him some soup. She looked pleased,
            as she always did, on their entrance into the wigwam. The chief knew the party. He knew
            the doctor as the medicine man and Hayward as the trader with the tribes, and he greeted
            them as warmly as is the custom of an Indian--with a grunt and a nod. They were asked to
            alight, which they did, and joined the chief at the fire and warmed their benumbed
            fingers. Charlie began in the way that had been agreed 
            upon. He asked for a trade for the fair girl, as he wanted her for a wife. The chief
            looked upon it as a matter of business, and said: "White woman no like Indian and would
            no be his wife, and for heap furs and ponies me sell her."
          So the bargain was closed at once--Charlie and Otho both giving up their best ponies
            and all the furs they brought--and took the willing girl home with them.
        

        
        
           CHAPTER XVII. JENNETTE'S ROMANCE.
          
            
              For the heart that breaks in silence,
              With a sorrow all unknown,
              Is one who needs companionship,
              Yet walks their way alone.
            
          
          We must return to Jennette, to find her the forewoman of a large millinery
            establishment in one of the principal towns in Ohio. She had now matured into a tall,
            slender woman, whose face, though so young, wore deep traces of suffering. The lines
            about her mouth betokened months of sorrow and deep, painful heart-throbbings; yet,
            never a word of complaint escaped her lips. She drew crowds around her every day and
            sold more goods than any other milliner in the store. She had ready wit and a tact for
            selling, and the lady for whom she was working thought Jennette a great prize. She
            worked late and early, while her brain would ache sometimes with the terrible pressure
            of business and trouble combined. It began to tell on her health, before long, and she
            grew whiter and paler day by day, until, one morning, after having spent a sleepless
            night, she said to Mrs. Doris: "I shall have to leave you, my dear  Mrs. Doris, for I am no longer competent to fill the position. My health and
            strength is not sufficient for what I have to do, and I must have a change of place and
            scene. I feel so wretched and with no strength of body I am slowly but surely wearing
            away. I shall first go home and see my precious boy, then I shall seek a new field where
            I have never seen a face; perhaps then I will forget more easily those bitter
            recollections that crowd upon me everywhere I go. I see in every familiar face some
            inquiring look, as much as to say, 'How are you bearing your heart trials?' and this
            only adds torture to wretchedness."
          "Why, Jennette," said Mrs. Doris, "you are a stranger here to all except myself and
            family, and you do not think we are probing you with too close scrutiny, I trust."
          "No, no, Mrs. Doris, but you see, I cannot stay here, on account of my health, and I
            will not return to my old home to remain any length of time; so I shall visit an uncle
            of mine and take little Guy with me, then from there I shall go west and teach school
            among the Indians. This is my full purpose now, unless thwarted by some unseen
            providence."
          Mrs. Doris was thrown into a great dilemma at once, for she knew no one could, or ever
            would, fill Jennette's place at the head of her establishment. Yet, being a lady with
            kindly instincts and having loved Jennette from a very young girl, she would not contend
            with her or offer her any great inducements to have her stay  longer, when she saw misery so plainly depicted in every feature and knew
            how much her heart hungered to clasp in close embrace the form of her little boy--she
            could not say stay, but told her to go, and she would be the
            loser.
          So, in a few days, Jennette started for Logansport, where she intended taking passage
            on the mail hack to the village; but a strange providence awaited her. When she stepped
            aboard the train between Cleveland and Toledo, at the depot in the city where she had
            been working, the train was so packed with passengers that there was not a vacant seat
            and hardly standing room in the aisles, and on looking around, she observed a very
            dirty, filthy-looking creature near her, who was intoxicated and had just extricated
            himself from a mud-puddle in the road and staggered onto the train. She saw that in the
            crowding she would soon be pushed back against him, and that would be ruin to her
            beautiful new blue silk dress she had donned that lovely afternoon as a traveling
            costume. She knew not what to do, for she was loth to stand so near such a filthy
            creature--much less to have her favorite dress ruined, and looking forward along the
            line of seats before her, her eyes fell on a handsome gentleman who was occupying two
            seats. He had noticed her as soon as she came into the car, and afterward said: "It was
            your unusual pale face, and deserted look, that so strangely attracted my attention." He
            kept eyeing her, and trying to read that pitiful look that rested on every feature,  till at last he observed her situation, and leaned forward
            and said: "Young lady, if you can get through this packed aisle, you can have this seat
            by me."
          She thanked him cordially, and with a determined effort reached his side. He said to
            her, "You were in close quarters, wer'nt you?"
          "Yes, sir, indeed I was; and I am under great obligations to you for this seat."
          "Not at all," he replied, "but as I have been some time on the road and have had no
            traveling companion, I made up my mind, on seeing you, and the dilemma you were in with
            that filthy wretch so near you, that I would allow you to come into the seat with me;
            and I flatter myself now, that I have an agreeable little companion; I must ask how far
            you are going on this road?"
          "As far as Toledo, sir," she replied.
          "Do you stop there?"
          "No, sir, only to change cars. I get aboard the train for Logansport."
          Well, well! then we travel some distance together; I go to Fort Wayne; so you see, we
            might as well get acquainted at once. Can I have the pleasure of knowing your name,
            Miss?"
          "My name," she replied, "is Lucy Johnson"--looking a little mischievous out of her
            eyes, as she used to in the long ago, when she was all the world to old Joe Phelps, full
            of her roguishness and fun.
          She found her companion to be a congenial Yankee, but a real down east gentleman, she
            knew; Yankee like, he  would ask questions,
            notwithstanding he had been well raised and highly educated. So choosing this fictitious
            name, she said to herself, "He never need know who I am, then he will never learn my
            history." She was so sensitive on that point, that it was ever guarded with peculiar
            care.
          He at once began addressing her as Miss Johnson, and before she hardly realized where
            she was, she was talking and laughing familiarly with him, as if she had always known
            him.
          He saw that she had very ready language and quick wit, and as they warmed up in their
            conversation, he kept admiring her more and more; so when the train pulled into Toledo,
            he was making up his mind that she was just the sweetest little woman it had ever been
            his pleasure to have met. It was about eight o'clock when they drew up to the depot. He
            urged her to go with him and have supper; but Jennette had learned to distrust all
            mankind, and would not be prevailed upon to leave the ladies' waiting room, and go with
            him to get supper; so she thanked him politely, and told him it was a late hour to eat,
            and she would not take any supper. He ate his supper, came back and took his place at
            her side, and remained in waiting for the eleven o'clock train that should carry them on
            their journey. He bought her ticket which cost him six dollars, and utterly refused to
            take the money she laid down for him. She could not see into that kind of liberality and
            thus kept her eyes upon him, not knowing what the  outcome
            might be. But he drew her into long and interesting conversations on different subjects
            and was pleased with her sense of humor and her bright and charming conversational
            powers. He asked her how long she intended to remain in Logansport.
          She said: "Two or three days."
          Then he wished to know if she would write to him, if he would write.
          She studied a moment and said: "I guess a letter is due you for your kindness to me on
            this journey."
          He said not to mention that; one letter written by her hand would repay the debt.
          And, as the train rushed into Fort Wayne, he said: "Well, Miss Johnson, call at the
            office to-morrow evening and you'll find a letter there for you."
          So saying, he took a pair of small scissors from his pocket and cut a little stray lock
            of golden hair from her head, as she was looking in another direction.
          She asked him what he had done.
          He held the few shining hairs toward her and said: "Forgive me, but I could not help
            it." And when the train stopped, he caught up one of her small hands, pressed it
            tightly, and raising it to his lips, was off the train in a moment and lost to her sight
            in the darkness.
          She arrived in Logansport at 6 a. m. and concluded to stay and visit old friends a few
            days, before going home. So, on the same evening she remembered her promise, and called
            at the office for Lucy Johnson's mail. Sure enough there was a little white envelope  as nicely addressed as any she had ever seen. She smilingly
            opened and read as well worded and well written a letter as it ever had been her
            privilege to receive. She said to herself: "Well, I will answer it, just for fun, and
            see what the end of such a romance will be.'
          She sent him a budget of girlish fun on the next train, and said: "Who would have
            believed I ever could have felt so much life and spirit again, but yet, it seems to be a
            change--something tending to awaken me out of this morbid feeling."
          She was so welcomed among her friends that she could not get away before a week had
            elapsed, and every day brought her a letter from Mr. Calkins, her railway companion.
          When the time came for her to go, she wrote him that she would leave the city for two
            or three weeks and that he should not write until her return, and then she would inform
            him of her arrival.
          He felt somewhat chagrined, for he said: "Now, the little elf will give me the slip--I
            shall lose her sure, and I can't afford that."
          He was like a crazy man during the three weeks she remained at home, for he said:
            "Surely, if ever man loved at first sight, it is myself; and here I am left, not knowing
            where the object of my love has flown. I am thirty years of age and duped--yes, duped by
            the sweetest and brightest little Hoosier girl that ever graced the old Hoosier state. I
            wonder what my aristocratic parents away back in New York would say if  they knew of my romantic love story? Pshaw!" he would say
            to himself, "what is the use of this? Yet, I cannot forget her. I shall go mad if she
            does not soon write and inform me of her whereabouts."
          Jennette had not given him or his letters a passing thought. During the whole three
            weeks she was at home, she was getting ready for a long visit with her Uncle Harvey
            Browning, where she had spent so many lonely hours, yet, where she expected to meet her
            dearest friends, Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Miller. Mrs. Allen always superseded every other,
            because she had her sympathy.
          Her little boy was now a manly little fellow of five years, and she knew her uncle was
            growing so old that she must make haste to go, before death should call him away. Yet,
            as her life was made up of strange incidents, there came another turn, when she would
            not have believed any one could have turned her from her well matured plans and
            purposes. There came a letter one day to her, from the lady with whom she used to work
            in Logansport, begging her to give up her present determinations and go to Fort Wayne
            with her and accept a position in a store. She intended to take her stock of millinery
            there, and now, if she loved her and wanted to show her gratitude for past kindness, she
            would go with her, three months at any rate, to help her get her business started.
          Jennette was thrown into a difficulty. She said: "This is a hard thing to refuse,
            because, as she says, if  I feel any gratitude for past
            favors, I will do as she wishes. So, after thinking the matter over, she said: "I'll go
            three months, and that will bring it into winter again; then I'll spend the winter with
            my uncle."
          Little Guy had to give up his happy dream of going with mamma, and that to her was far
            worse than her own disappointment. Yet, she said: "Duty before pleasure;" besides she
            offers me such liberal wages. How could I refuse? It would be wrong."
          Then she talked to Master Guy and told him how she would come home with lots of money
            and take him away where she never would leave him again.
          He was a smart little fellow, and with an eye to business, he said: "I can wait, mamma,
            if you can get money enough so you can keep me always with you."
          She snatched him to her breast and cried at the thought of the poor little fellow
            having to seek his own consolation out of a bitter disappointment.
          She bade good-bye, once more, to her idolized boy, home and mother, to return to
            business in a new place.
          When she arrived at Logansport, she found her employer waiting for her. She told her
            about the romantic meeting of the young gentleman on the train, and said: "What shall I
            do--write and tell him I am coming there?"
          "Yes, by all means do, he may be a gentleman, and in time you may become his wife."
          For the first time, it crossed Jennette's mind that he might bother her in that way,
            and she turned her face  proudly toward her friend, and
            with all the scorn and pride of a high-bred woman, she said: "Now, I shall never let him
            know where I am; the very idea of hunting up a husband after all I've gone through! No!
            my heart is sealed and fixed in that direction, I shall never let him know my
            whereabouts, for I shall never be any man's wife--mark my words."
          Mrs. Morrow knew her too well to add another word, so the subject was not alluded to
            again. But they went to Fort Wayne immediately and began their work. They soon began to
            gain a hold in the city and to attract the many with their pleasant manners and
            honorable dealings. One day Jennette sat down in one of the large bay windows of the
            establishment and began making an autumn crape bonnet, which attracted the attention of
            the passers by. Among the many that loitered to watch the deft fingers of the pale
            little woman, who seemed so cheerful, yet so sad-looking, was a tall, dark-haired,
            handsome gentleman who looked for a moment only and seemed riveted to the spot. The
            gentleman was Mr. Calkins. He walked right in, and smilingly extended his hand,
            exclaiming: "Caught at last, you naughty girl! "
          Jennette blushed with inutterable confusion and stammered his name, but she gained her
            self-control instantly. She introduced him to her friends, who were very much pleased
            with his appearance and invited him into their parlor and gave Jennette the privilege of
            a conversation with him. This she was not at  all thankful
            for; she would much rather have run off and left him to talk to her friends and herself
            hide where she could not possibly ever meet him again.
          But she was not thus to be relieved. Her friend, Mrs. Morrow, saw the situation and
            made the most of it.
          "Poor girl," she said, "she is and ever will be pursued by gentlemen, until she is
            married--she is so lovable in her nature. She will be admired and pursued by lovers as
            long as she remains single, and why not take one out of the number and make her life
            blessed? The man is a gentleman, to all appearances, and I have often heard that a
            Yankee was the very man to fall in love at first sight, and who knows what might come of
            this, and, after all, Jennette become a wealthy man's bride and gain a victory over Jay
            Cooper that she could rejoice in all her life?"
          While Jennette was sitting face to face with the romantic stranger, she abused herself
            all the time for ever having written to him, for now she had to tell him her real name.
            It was the hardest thing that she had ever undertaken, but she at last confessed that
            her name was not Lucy Johnson, but Jennette Browning. He opened his eyes with wonder;
            yet he enjoyed the joke, laughing heartily. He said the name struck him as a very common
            one for so delicate a fairy as herself. Yet the name was nothing, provided he could get
            the object it belonged to. He spent a half hour talking and laughing over their romantic
            meetings, and then said  on leaving, he should be pleased
            to call again and get better acquainted.
          What could she do but grant his request, inasmuch as he had been very genteel and kind
            to her from the first, and she was under obligations to him; therefore he went his way,
            to call another day. This he did, and at a very early one, too, for, somehow, he could
            not stay away from the new and romantic acquaintance.
        

        


        
           CHAPTER XVIII. RESCUED AFTER TWO YEARS.
          
            
              Redeemed at last! At last redeemed!
              Is all her heart could speak,
              And fain would poor misfortune's child
              Have fallen at our feet.
            
          
          When the old chief had taken the furs and the two ponies which he considered the finest
            he had ever seen, and drunk a long draught from the mouth of the flask which Otho had
            not failed to prepare for him, he smiled and nodded and beckoned to his white woman, as
            he called her, to mount an inferior pony to that he had received in lieu of her. And
            pointing to Hayward, he said: "White man like-e white woman. Go!"
          The party turned their faces homeward, feeling that their silent battle had been a
            glorious conquest.
          They had only gotten fairly out of the camp, when Dr. Lenhart spoke to the young lady
            and said: "How long have you been with the chief, Miss?"
          She looked at him, while a shadow of pain passed over her face, and she spoke in clear
            English, saying: "It has been just about two years, sir."
          The whole party were surprised, as well as pleased,  to
            hear that she had been there no longer and that her speech was good.
          "How came you among them?" continued the old doctor.
          "Why, sir," she said, while tears began to fall, "I was taken prisoner after my parents
            were killed by the Indians near the border line of Texas, about two years ago, and this
            is the first time since, that I have ever been allowed to speak with white folks, and
            now I feel that I am only dreaming. It cannot surely be a reality."
          The young gentlemen were all anxious to hear more of her story and see the paint washed
            from her face and a young lady's garb upon her, to see what manner of feminine
            loveliness she promised to be, for they each one anticipated that she was a queen in
            beauty, if she could get rid of her Indian habit. They made as much speed as possible to
            reach home by afternoon lunch and reached there precisely at three, to find Buelah pale
            with anxiety. And when she saw that they had been successful, she ran out, and in her
            great excitement and joy threw her arms around the neck of the poor unfortunate girl,
            who appreciated the affectionate greeting with so much tender womanliness that she burst
            into tears and the two young girls wept like children in each other's arms, although
            they had never known each other before, except as they had cast mutual glances in the
            chief's tent. Buelah led her into the house and said: "Can you speak our language?"


          

          She smiled through her tears and said: "Yes, I can not speak any other, save a little
            German I learned at school."
          Buelah was beside herself with joy at the thought, and again embracing her, said: "Oh,
            then, you have not been so long a time with those horrid Indians, have you?"
          "Two years," she replied, "but to me it has been an eternity."
          Buelah said: "Poor, dear girl, how I have pitied you ever since I first met you. But to
            prove that I have, and do now, I must have some water brought and let you wash off those
            horrid paints."
          "Yes, I shall be under renewed obligations to you for just enough soap and water to
            cleanse myself from the last remnant of Indian style and costume. But what shall I do
            for a respectable suit of clothing? I have had nothing but this Indian suit, which they
            made me don from the first."
          "Oh, never mind that! My clothes will fit you--for see, we are really of one size! Now,
            here is warm water and soap, and this is my mother that brings it."
          Mrs. Lenhart set the water down and took both the young girl's hands in a motherly way,
            and said: "I am glad to meet you and to know you are safe among civilized people, at
            last. What is your name, dear?"
          "Shaw--My name is Anna Fern Shaw. Mamma always called me Fern."


          

          "Oh!" said Buelah, "what a lovely name! and we will call you Fern."
          "Now," said Mrs. Lenhart, going to a wardrobe and handing out a suit of Buelah's
            clothes, "Just put this suit on, until we can do better. We will now let you dress, and
            ask you no more questions."
          Tears ran down the cheeks of the thankful girl, as she washed off the horrible paint
            and saw herself in the glass for the first time in two years.
          All this time, the young gentlemen and Dr. Lenhart were engaged in close conversation
            at the gate, each one expressing deep feeling for the poor, unfortunate girl, and
            wondering what her history would develop. But while they were talking, Mrs. Lenhart
            announced that supper was ready--which they did not refuse to attend to immediately.
          When they had entered the house, Buelah stepped forward, with her arm drawn through the
            arm of her new-found friend and said: "My father, Miss Shaw."
          She bowed and said: "I meet you with due reverence, I hope, for this day I owe you what
            I can never repay--my freedom."
          Tears came to the eyes of the kind-hearted old doctor and he took her hand gently,
            saying: "I thank God, my poor child, that I have been instrumental in His hands for your
            deliverance."
          Buelah said: "Now, Mr. Hayward, this is our friend --Miss Shaw--come to stay with us an
            indefinite length  of time and to make one of our party
            when we ride out."
          Fern took his extended hand and modestly said: "Many thanks, Mr. Hayward, for the part
            you have taken to-day, in delivering me from a life that was worse than death."
          Charlie's kind heart beat with emotion, as he said: "A thousand thanks to the Giver of
            all good for affording me the privilege."
          Kind-hearted Buelah presented her to her two brothers, who welcomed her kindly; after
            which, they took their seats at the table, to do honor to the indulgent host, who had
            prepared such a sumptuous repast for healthy appetites.
          They found Miss Shaw a good conversationalist and glad to be where she could once more
            meet with white people and feel her freedom. "Oh," she said, when she had finished her
            supper, "May I never cease to be thankful for all this kindness. I have not eaten a meal
            at a table in two years, before, nor held an intelligent conversation, in that time, and
            I feel as if I would never tire of talking."
          "Well," said Dr. Lenhart, "while you are in the notion of talking, tell us all about
            your capture by the Indians--where and how it happened."
          "Well," she began, "my parents--or foster-parents, rather--lived in Texas. They went
            there when I was a little babe. My foster-mother was one of the best women that the
            world will ever know, and had such a  tender conscience
            that she felt it her duty to tell me she was not really my mother, but that my real
            mother lived in one of the southern states. And, as she herself was a very weakly woman,
            she concluded it was her duty to take me back among my friends, if any of them could be
            found, before she died; for she loved me so dearly that she could not bear to leave me
            alone among strangers. She said my people were all wealthy. She told me some things,
            which she bade me never to tell, concerning my people, which you will not care to
            know."
          "Certainly not," said Dr. Lenbart, "that is your own personal secret; just tell us of
            your foster-parents and your capture."
          "Well, I will go on: My foster-parents, never having had any children of their own and
            having received some money from my people with which to educate me, faithfully performed
            their duty, and afterwards undertook to go back and hunt up my people and place me where
            I might receive an inheritance, which they said would one day be my lot to share. We
            were traveling in a stage coach near the border line, when two or three hundred Indians,
            who were waiting in ambush, made an assault upon the stage, killing every one, to my
            personal knowledge, except myself. They tied my hands and feet and threw me across a
            pony and traveled for miles from that place before they released me. Then, setting a
            double guard over me, I was forced to yield and have never heard a word of that terrible
            massacre since."


          

          Then she broke down and gave vent to violent weeping insomuch that the loving mother
            heart of Mrs. Lenhart melted in pity, and she sat down by her, drew her head down on her
            shoulder and stroking her golden hair, she calmed her to perfect quiet by her gentle,
            loving words. She told her she had not lost all, but would find in them new friends and
            tender sympathizers. "And now," she said, "we will not talk any more on this subject,
            which is so painful to you. Buelah, get some of your books and let her interest herself
            with reading. She must be nearly famished for something to read."
          "Oh, yes, do, for I am hungry to read. I have not seen a word in print for so long, I
            am nearly wild to get hold of anything in the shape of a book or paper."
          Buelah flew to the library and brought out a number of nice books--among them was one
            entitled The Prairie Flower, a novel, but it was in keeping with the feelings of the
            poor, lonely girl.
          She read for the remainder of the evening, and when bed time came, she said she felt
            loth to leave her book and go to sleep--much as she prized the happy privilege of
            sleeping on a good bed, among kind friends."
          When morning came and she had made a careful toilet, there was a truth to which the
            whole family gave a common acknowledgement: she was a beauty, and no mistake.
          When Otho and Charlie had returned to the forest some miles distant, to set their traps
            and try to make  up the loss of the furs and ponies they
            had exchanged for the new beauty they had now in their home, Otho said: "Well, Charlie,
            I shall not retract from what I first said. She may be my wife yet--who knows,--or shall
            I have to make up your part of the furs and ponies, before you release your share of the
            claim?"
          Charlie laughed and said: "Otho, if you've lost your heart, I shall relinquish my claim
            immediately and stand the loss, to see you happy; for, my boy, it is one thing to love a
            golden-haired little girl, and another to be able to get her; I'll tell you right here,
            I speak from experience."
          "Why, Hayward," said Otho, "is it possible you have ever had a love experience and been
            thwarted? If you have, pray tell me how a fellow feels when he is in love, and again,
            how does he feel if his lady love rejects him?"
          "Otho, I can tell how a man feels that loves a sweet woman more than human tongue can
            express. It is a feeling that gives you courage to dare to die for her you love. But, as
            to the feeling of being rejected, I can hardly say. I cannot exactly tell whether I was
            ever rejected, in the true sense of the word, or not. Yet, another was taken in my
            place, and I am left a lonely wanderer, and life is almost a blank to me. So, you see,
            all I live for now is to try to make others happy. If you should learn to love this fair
            girl, who promises to be all a young man could desire, I yield all my claim cheerfully,
            as I am not looking for any one to fill the  place of her
            who was my life's star. It could never be filled. And now my setting sun, when sinking
            fast behind the western hills of life, will find me a lone and solitary man."
          "Why, Charlie!" exclaimed Otho, "you surprise me; I never would have believed you could
            have loved so devotedly as that--you are so quiet and seem to care so little for any one
            or for company."

          "Otho, still water is deepest and often hides a skeleton." 
        

        

        
           CHAPTER XIX.  THE REJECTED LOVER--SCANDAL AFLOAT.

          
            
              How sweet to love, when love is returned;
              But oh, to what depths of despair
              Can the soul that's rejected
              In a moment be plunged,
              By her he holds sacredly dear.
            
          

          Jennette worked from day to day with an anxious heart to be gone from Fort Wayne and to
            get her boy and go to her uncle, whom she knew fondly loved her. In his childish
            weakness, he was almost counting the days when she would come to stay with him. Mrs.
            Allen, too, had written that Mr. Allen's health was failing fast and that she was kept a
            perfect prisoner at home, for he was unable to get out. She wanted Jennette to hurry and
            come; it would help while away the lonely hours of her life, if she had her to talk to
            and to sympathize with.
          Mr. Calkins kept as vigilant a watch over her whom he loved as he did over his own
            life. Whenever she even alluded to her going away, a shadow passed over his face, yet he
            could not find courage to ask her to stay with him and become his wife. But he came, one
               Sunday afternoon, for her to go with him and take a
            drive in the park, and he came with full purpose to lay bare his heart and confess his
            boundless love for her; for, said he, "Faint heart ne'er won fair lady."

          Jennette had been with Mrs. Morrow almost her promised time--three months--two weeks
            only remaining for her to stay in the city. Then she intended going where she had been
            so longing to go--to her uncle's. But this afternoon Mr. Calkins came and would not take
            no for an answer; he said she must go out riding for the afternoon was too fine to be
            lost by staying indoors. 
          Her friends urged her to go, which she reluctantly did, and was soon absorbed in
            pleasant conversation with her companion.
          The reader will remember that, although she had gone through great trials and
            heart-sufferings, she was naturally of such a happy, genial disposition that she would
            throw off all kinds of burdens and cares to make time pleasant for those with whom she
            was associated. Sometimes, when her heart was full to bursting and her soul seemed as if
            tortured beyond endurance, she would laugh and talk and sparkle with wit, until all
            traces of trouble were driven away, except the pale face and the deep lines and furrows
            in her forehead and cheeks.
          It was on the afternoon we have mentioned that she was suffering from an attack of this
            heart-aching, for just the day before, she had received a letter from her  sister Minnie, stating that she must not have her letters
            mailed on the train, because they came postmarked Wabash Valley Railway, and all the
            villagers were talking scandal, each one trying to see how much they could add to
            it.
          Now, Jennette knowing her innocence, felt crushed at heart. She never could endure that
            any one should doubt her integrity or look upon her as a weak woman.
          It was in this way that her letters came to be mailed on the train: A gentleman
            acquaintance where she boarded, being telegraph operator, proposed one morning, as she
            had made mention of going to the post-office, that he should mail the letter for her and
            save her a long walk. She thanked him kindly, gave him the letter and thus her poor,
            innocent young life had to have one more blot added by the scandal-loving people, who
            ought to have had too much sympathy to even give it a passing thought.
          The few moments it took for the operator to mail the letter on the train, when it
            stopped at the depot, would have taken her one hour's hard walking, but would have saved
            one year's hard talking from the people of the little village at home. Jennette said:
            "The longest way round, the old adage has it, is the safest way, and I have learned
            another lesson, through suffering, to go by the safest way,"--and no more of her letters
            were ever mailed on the train.
          The afternoon was so pleasant and the air so bracing that she began to thank herself
            for taking the  ride she had been so loth to accept. But
            when they had talked at length on various subjects, Mr. Calkins began, with beating
            heart, to pour his story of love into the unwilling ear of Jennette. It was told in very
            much the same way, we suppose, that Adam first breathed his sweetest sentiments into the
            ear of his gentle Eve. Yet, while she listened, with mingled feelings of doubt and
            disgust, she said nothing whatever, until he was done and had wound up with "Will you be
            my wife?"
          It was then her time to talk. She drew herself up proudly, and we must say scornfully,
            for she felt the fire of revenge, scorn, wounded pride and hatred for the opposite sex,
            all rush into her soul at that moment, and she said: "Sir, we are strangers to each
            other, but if I had known you all my life, I should not nor could not have any
            confidence in you."
          He looked the picture of astonishment and despair, and said: "Why, Jennette, dearest of
            all women, what have I done to merit such an opinion or feeling from you, as this? What
            has destroyed your confidence in me, pray, tell?"
          She drew away from him as be attempted to draw her to his side, and said: "My
            confidence in all mankind is forever gone. What you tell me, to-day, you will repent of,
            to-morrow. For, should I tell you that at a certain day in the future I would be your
            wife and you should vow eternal devotion to me, let one slanderer go to you and assail
            me, with no proof but a  lying tongue, you would desert me
            in the last hour."
          "Why, Jennette, you frighten me with your irony and bitter words. Why should you think
            evil of me, who has loved you from the first?"
          "Mr. Calkins, I have had enough of this kind of talk from others, and it is this kind
            of acting that has driven me off the stage, and I am no subject for matrimony. There is
            a gulf between us as wide as death and deep as the grave; so you will please never
            repeat what you have said, nor give it another thought."
          "Oh, Jennette! Jennette! you blast the prospect of my whole life! I have not had a
            thought, without you have been connected with it, since I first saw you, and now, just
            when I begin to hope, I have to see all the best and brightest prospects of my life
            perish! What has come over you; tell me the great secret; for surely a woman with such a
            heart and soul can not look at a matter like this in such a cold and cruel light."
          "I do not wish to be cruel, Mr. Calkins," said Jennette, softly, "I do not wish to
            wound or probe the heart of any one; yet, when I contemplate the suffering that
            false-hearted man has caused my sex to bear, I must acknowledge feeling a rebellious
            spirit toward them."

          "But, Jennette, you should not condemn the innocent for the faults of the guilty. I,
            who have never loved any one, neither wronged any one by pretending that I did, and
            making promises that I did not expect to fulfill, should not be condemned for the
            wretch, who  has wronged, perhaps, his hundreds, and is at
            large to-day, 'the gayest of the gay.'"
          "Now, Mr. Calkins, I do not wish to punish the innocent with the guilty, but where is
            the innocent man? You claim innocence, so have many others I have known; but they are
            all fickle, far more fickle than women, whom they consider so weak. And now let me tell
            you that between us there is a great gulf fixed, over which false man can never pass."
            And she grew terribly white and showed such agitation that Mr. Calkins grew nervous and
            almost wild at the result of his talk with her whom he loved so devotedly, and turned
            his horses' heads homeward, and in the dusk of the evening lifted her from the carriage
            and stood by her while he said in a hoarse voice: "Let me hope, Jennette, just give me a
            hope that you will study this matter over and give it your candid and earnest thought. I
            am to address a regiment of soldiers, those who were most victorious in time of battle,
            to-morrow evening. May I hope that you will be there to hear me? I know how you prize
            the honored warrior and how you love to hear the stories of our brave boys recounted,
            and if you are there, it will lend spirit to my feelings and speech to my tongue."
          "Yes! Most assuredly, Mr. Calkins, I will be there and will send up a silent petition
            for clear thought and good delivery."
          "Oh, Jennette, I shall be buoyed up under such a  thought
            as this--to know she whom I love prays for me."
          Tears filled his eyes. He took her hand, pressed it to his lips, bowed her a
            good-night, and, seating himself in the carriage, drove quickly to his place of
            boarding.
          Jennette walked into the house, feeling that although she had acted from the promptings
            or a pure heart, she had dealt a terrible blow to another. She read a soul in that man's
            eyes, that was seldom found among men, "yet," she said, "he would do just as Blackburn
            had done. He would fly at the first alarm and leave me to work out the worst problem
            life had for me to solve--alone. So he cannot make me believe anything. I have learned a
            sad lesson. I have trusted hearts I believed to be sincere and have had my own dashed to
            pieces by those who have talked just as he did to-day. No, I shall go away, and he shall
            never know where I have gone. And she tripped into the house with a determined look not
            usually to be seen in her face.
          Mrs. Morrow said: "Well, Jennette, I can guess the truth the first guess."
          "Perhaps you think so, but I guess not."
          "Well, he has proposed and you have stoutly refused. I read it in your face."
          "Let those who read, understand," replied Jennette, walking upstairs and throwing
            herself on a lounge. She burst into tears and wept until she calmed her agitated heart;
            then, going to the wash bowl, she bathed her face and went down stairs talking so calmly
               until bed time, that one would never have guessed what
            a storm had passed over her soul.
          But what of Mr. Calkins? He ate no supper, but sought his room and there paced the
            floor of his apartment until the small hours of the night. At one moment he would almost
            curse the hour he ever met Jennette, and the next he would bless the day that she had
            stepped into his path, for she had awakened a slumbering power in his soul that he never
            knew he possessed, and that was the power to love. He would declare aloud, and the walls
            would echo back his words: "Never man loved as I love this gentle, yet
              self-willed, girl." But he knew he must sleep; so, going to a trunk, he took out
            a small vial and poured out a few drops, saying: "I must sleep, for I
            shall have to speak to-morrow night and Jennette will be there to listen, and she said
            she would pray for me. Ah, surely angels will be there to guard and hold me up, for she
            could command a legion, I know, if she did but ask it."
           Thus soliloquizing, he threw himself across the bed and soon sank into a dreamless
            slumber, and the sun had climbed far above the horizon before he awoke. When he arose,
            he remembered immediately that Jennette had no confidence in him and that she had
            declared there was a gulf between them over which he could not pass. He lay down again
            and sobbed like a child. Yes, the handsome, strong man cried over her for whom so many
            tears had been shed, and she who had shed so many scorching tears for just such as
            he.


          

          The time came, however, for him to address the soldiers, and she was there, sitting
            immediately before him. He felt inspired from the beginning, and such eloquence scarcely
            ever reached the ears of those people, and his speech was so full of true patriotism
            that she was overwhelmed with the beauty of it. When he was done speaking, she waved her
            handkerchief to show her high approval.
          He knew she was pleased by the light in her blue eyes, and he went home with a secret
            hope that that speech might be the key that would unlock her closed heart to him. He
            said: "She is good; she is noble; she is pure as the heavens' own dews--and yet not
            truly handsome, except when she is sparkling with wit, or her soul is inspired by a
            noble thought. As she looked to-night, I shall always remember her."
          The next day found him at her side, renewing his proposal and vowing that if she
            refused him again, he could not live under it; for if all his life was to be like the
            last thirty-six hours, he could not live but a short time."
          She replied: "Mr. Calkins, you'll find that 'Life may long be borne ere sorrow breaks
            its chain,' just as Henry I, king of England learned it, and not only he, but many
            others who have lived since his time."
          "Jennette, you are cruel--yes, cruel, indeed!"
          "No, I do not wish to be so, but you force expressions like this from me."



          



          "I only ask you if I may hope for the honor of your hand and heart."
          "I am afraid you will not find any honor attached to it. I am only a working girl,
            while you are a wealthy and honored lawyer. You see, I am not so weak as to believe you
            want to condescend to such a degree as this."
          "Jennette, I have never once called this matter in question. I only know I love you and
            want you for my wife, over every opposing element."
          "Well, Mr. Calkins, I will give you an answer by next Sunday afternoon."
          He looked pleased and said he hoped for the best, and went away.
          Next day found Jennette on her way back to her mother's home.
        

        
        

           CHAPTER XX. LEAVING HOME AND MEETING THE GIPSY AGAIN.
          
            
              Out of a life of commotion,
              Tempest-swept oft as the ocean,
              Dark with the wrecks drifting o'er,
              Praying for home and for quiet,
              With never a storm drifting nigh it,
              And never a wreck on its shore.
            
          
          The sun was just shedding its last faint rays over the lovely October landscape as
            Jennette came in sight of the little village of B-, nestled away among trees and
            beautiful shrubbery. And as the town folks were an enterprising, industrious, cleanly
            people, the flow of improvements went steadily on, and they prided themselves on having
            the finest shrubbery, the choicest flowers, the cleanest streets and best school that
            could be found in any village in northern Indiana, and when the tiresome old hack neared
            the place, she looked out and viewed the setting sun in all its autumnal glory, and
            beholding the place, to her most sacred of all, she said: "Oh, how many sad and hallowed
            memories entwine themselves about this consecrated spot. It is here I've known my
            sweetest joys and brightest anticipations; and here, too, I have seen the goblet which
               held the nectar I was about to quaff, dashed to the
            earth, and at my feet it lay, a broken vessel--hope's sweet draught forever spilled. Oh,
            little village, how many joys and, alas, how many tears, hast thou chronicled for me!
            Yet, in my heart thou art hallowed by both sweet as well as sad memories. While I have
            life and recollection, I shall remember thee, my childhood's home."
          Jennette was thus soliloquizing, when the hack drew up at her mother's door. She sprang
            out in a great hurry, for she saw in the door the loveliest picture she had ever beheld.
            It was little Guy with a tincup of bread and milk--while he ate his supper, he was
            kindly dividing it between Jip, his dog, and Tabby, his cat. But on looking up, he saw
            at a glance it was mamma that had come. He gave a quick cry of joy, and tossing his
            supper to one side, much to the satisfaction of his pets, he sprang into her arms and
            they mingled their tears together. She carried him into the house, where she found her
            mother and sister waiting until he'had eaten his supper, that they might put him to
            sleep, for they were going to have some company that evening and wanted him out of the
            way for the night.
          But on looking up, they were surprised see Jennette, for she had come, unexpectedly, a
            week sooner than she had anticipated. She told them that she had grown so very homesick,
            all of a sudden, that she could not stay any longer,


          
          Her mother and sister Minnie felt sorry that she happened in on that evening, above all
            others; for they knew village gossip had it that she was living a very reckless life;
            and while they knew better and knew she had been doing double work in order to get
            double wages; yet, they hadn't the moral courage to stand by her in such an hour as
            this, but would rather she would go out of the room and away from the presence of any
            one that knew her.
          They poured into her ear all the false stories that had been afloat. And while she
            listened, pained to the heart, there was that deep, determined purpose--that soul so
            vast in its heights and depths that it could not and would not be humbled nor subdued by
            the lying of those who loved only her downfall, because they envied her.
          She said: "No, mother and sister mine, while I know my own innocence, I shall stand
            before kings. I shall stay right here. And if you are ashamed of me, I
            know as well as you do, that you have no cause to be. Therefore, it is only when God
            condemns me that I shall fly from the presence of any one."
          "May I stay up with you, mamma?" begged little Guy.
          "Yes, my darling, you shall stay and keep mamma company; and let them turn on us their
            treacherous eyes--we can stand it, can't we, dear?"
          "Yes, mamma, I never listen when they come to tell grandma stories about you, for I
            can't stand it to know  they speak unkindly of my poor,
            dear mamma, that is working so hard away off, for me, and some day, when I grow up a big
            man, I shall whip every one of them that says naughty things about my poor, sweet
            mamma."
          She pressed him to her heart, while tears fell thick and fast upon the little curly
            head on her breast.
          He put up his hand and wiped off the fast-falling tears from her face and whispered;
            "Don't cry, mamma, we will go to Uncle Browning's now, and never come back again."
          She held him close to her breast, and said: "Yes, dear, we will go, and bid this old
            home good-bye that has sheltered us both in childhood, for one among strangers."
          Just then the company began to come in. Jennette arose, spoke pleasantly, yet never
            offered her hand to any one, although she had known them long and well.
          They treated her very coolly, never asking her when she got home or how her health
            was.
          But she never seemed to notice it at all and engaged in all the conversation that came
            up, threw in dashes of wit and told some funny things that had passed under her
            observation while she had been away from home, and before the evening was past, they all
            seemed to have forgotten the terrible stories they had heard about her, and only looked
            at her as the same loving, sweet-tempered girl they had known in the past.
          When they got ready to go honme, a few of the company 
            gathered up the old cold cloak they had worn and never asked her to call and see them,
            while others who had come just as cool kissed her good-bye, pressing her to visit them
            before she went away--which she promised to do, if time would permit.
          When they had gone, her mother and sister expressed their astonishment at how well they
            had treated her. "Why," said the mother, "I didn't think one of them would recognize
            you, at all."
          "Oh!" said Jennette, "I was not uneasy about that. I know the battle is always with the
            strong, and enemies who can not show their colors in time of danger are not to be
            feared. I knew they had not an arrow to throw, and if they had, I had on a breastplate
            of truth and a helmet of honor; therefore I feel that the conquest is mine."
          So saying, she took little Guy off to bed and slept as soundly as if she had been the
            honored guest of the evening.
          Mrs. Browning spoke to Minnie and said: "I believe Jennette is growing calloused to
            what people say or think."
          "Well," replied Minnie, "I am glad she can turn things off as she does, for I used to
            get sick of her tears, but it seems as if she intends to take a different course and let
            folks know she stands on her own merits --which she does--poor little sister--she has
            had enough to kill her. Many a girl would have fallen and gone to ruin under half her
            trials."


          

          "Yes," replied her mother, "some of those very ones, here to-night, that treated her
            with the most indifference, could never bear what she has, and stand."
          "Well," said Minnie, rising to prepare for bed, "I am real glad she showed them she
            neither felt their coldness, nor cared for their friendship, I don't know how she did
            bear herself through it all so nobly. I shall sleep better now knowing she has
            conquered; for she met to-night the very ones she could not have met if they had known
            she was here. And they were forced, by her own natural way, to treat her with respect;
            and I saw before they left, they were whipped."
          "Yes," said Mrs. Browning, "I am ashamed that we asked her to retire, before they came,
            for we know how hard she toils to support herself and child, and she has been so kind to
            help us at home."
          "Yes, I shall do differently with her after this. And they did, for that was the last
            night she stayed under their roof.
          She was up the next morning bright and early and told them she had all her arrangements
            made; that she and Guy would take the hack at ten o'clock for Logansport, where she
            intended to remain a few days, then go to her uncle's and stay till spring, and then
            from there as far west as the Indian Territory, where she intended to teach among the
            Indians.
          They were shocked at such an idea, but they could not say or do anything that would
            alter her determination. She proceeded to pack her trunk and dress Guy,  who was wild with delight at the idea of going away with
            mamma at last, where he would never have to leave her again.
          Her mother and sister were in a flood of tears and could not eat any breakfast, for the
            thought of Guy leaving was killing them. They had learned to love him so devotedly that
            it was like taking their lives to snatch him away so suddenly.
          Jennette told them she never would stay another night to shame them by her presence.
            And as she had paid them for every hour they had kept Guy, she now felt free and
            independent, and longed to go where strangers would always love and respect her. She
            said: "I want you to hear me once and for all, my precious mother and dear sister, it is
            not without a great burden of sorrow at my heart that I bid this dear old home a last
            farewell. For it is hallowed in my memory and bound to me by a thousand ties. It was
            here I experienced all the pleasures of my youth, and here I've seen the deepest
            sorrows--and oh! the dark days that have passed rise up before me, and I now leave,
            never to trouble you again."
          Her mother walked the floor, wrung her hands, while tears fell like rain.
          Minnie was sobbing, with little Guy in her arms, but Jennette sat still and cold, while
            her face wore a corpse-like look.
          There are times in human lives when tears refuse to flow and the heart beats slow and
            heavy. It was just  such a moment as this for Jennette.
            Not a tear would fall and not a syllable could she utter. She struggled to conquer
            herself, which she did at last, then said: "My dearest of friends, mother and sister,
            whom I have ever cherished and done all in my power for, I am tired of staying away for
            weeks and months, working hard to send you money and presents, all that I possibly could
            do--then come home to be shunned and told to retire from the presence of old
            acquaintances because they choose to condemn me for that of which I am not guilty."
          They saw at once what they had done, and begged her to stay, saying that they had
            resolved to do differently, from that time on.
           But she bluntly informed them that she would not give them a chance, now, to do
            differently. She had reached that point where such things, with her, had to cease
            forever.
          They understood her, and it was an awful hour for them; for they knew her well enough
            to know that, when her mind was fully made up and she felt that she had borne all she
            could, she was as unchangeable as adamant. They realized then that she was going from
            them forever, and they never expected to see her again after that day.
          But how many strange events there are in life for us, that we are not allowed by divine
            wisdom to know--nor should we wish to know--for "trouble foreseen is twice
            experienced."


          

          Ten o'clock came and brought the hack to the door and the hour for the last good-bye.
            It was a sorrowful time. They felt as if Guy was nearer to them than ever before, and
            Jennette was fast becoming doubly dear, for the womanhood she possessed.
          They said "farewell," amid groans and heart rending cries, and the hack drove off with
            its precious freight, while mother and sister looked after it in mortal agony.
          The day wore away, while all the village could not comfort them.
          Jennette and Guy arrived in the city late on the same afternoon and were driven to a
            friend's house and there remained several days. In the meantime she wrote to Mrs.
            Morrow, to know how Calkins had taken the blow of her leaving. When she received the
            answer, she wept for what she had done, for she realized from what she had heard that
            she had broken a heart that she did not feel inclined to trust, and she said: "Never
            again will I allow another man to make love to me, nor will I listen to the charmer,
            charm he ever so wisely." How well she kept her word, we shall see.
          One evening, just before Jennette started for G---, a party of friends called on her
            and they were having a merry time when a stranger was announced by a servant, who said
            she wanted to see the lady of the house.
          The good lady, Mrs. Loomas, went to the door and, coming back, said: "Ladies, it is an
            old gipsy. She says there are some here that must have their fortunes told."


          

          That was splendid fun for young ladies and they all called out: "Bring her in; let her
            come, Mrs. Loomas --give her a seat in the dining room."
          The old woman said: "Now, let them come, one at a time; I will not allow two or more at
            once."
          This was also carried back to the girls, who were all excitement. Jennette alone stood
            back and was silent. She said to herself: "I'll not go, for one,
            because I've tried fortune telling before to-night."
          One of the party at last plucked up courage to meet her alone, coming back, well
            pleased with what she had heard. Another and another went, until all in the house had
            seen her, except Jennette, and she refused to go.
          But the old woman would not leave, and she said: "There is another lady in the room,
            who must come to me, for I have an especial message for her."
          "That," they said, "must be Jennette;" so they would not take no for an answer.
          Go, she must; but she felt her blood run cold; she remembered the gipsy's prophecy of
            long ago, on the hills of the Ohio. Yet, she went and reluctantly took her seat before
            the old gray-haired woman, and as she did so, the gipsy said: "Didn't I tell ye we would
            meet again in time, far from the river hills where we met before?"
          Jennette fairly gasped out the words "Can it be that you are the one?"
          She said: "I am; and didn't I tell you your life  would
            be a checkered one?--you must surely remember --and hasn't it been?"
          "Yes," replied Jennette.
          "Well, didn't I tell ye that you would be twice foiled in the dearest objects you would
            ever set heart on--and haint you been?"
          Jennette shuddered. She remembered Cooper, she thought of Blackburn and answered in the
            affirmative. She said: "Please, aunty, don't tell me any more terrible things; I can't
            bear them. Indeed, I do not wish to know."
          "Well, child, I shall tell you now, you are to be robbed by death of a very dear
            friend, before long, too, and you must guard your child, or his father will carry him
            off. Now, remember you did just what I told you you would do--slight the one you loved
            for one of your father's choosing; and the result was a false marriage, a little boy and
            a trouble that can never be told. You was foiled in marrying another, whom you had
            learned to love, by the same traitor villain. Now, you are to have one more heart trial,
            then you'll meet the man you once loved, and your last days are to be your happiest
            days."
          "Thank God for happier days to come," said Jennette, "the man will never be anything to
            me."
          "Now, good-bye, young lady," said the old gipsy, rising to go, "watch your child!" and
            she held up a finger of warning, as she stepped out of the door.
          Jennette shuddered and said: "Can it be that I shall 
            have to suffer again as I have?" and she walked back into the room, looking so pale and
            agitated that the guests laughed at her for listening to the gipsy, and told her there
            was nothing in what she said.
          But Jennette knew better, knowing that she had met her before that night, and her
            prophecies had all come true. But how on earth did the gipsy know she was there? That is
            what puzzled Jennette.
          She told nothing of what had passed between herself and the gipsy that evening, or of
            her having met her before, but she went to bed with a foreboding of evil, and said, as
            she drew a long breath: "Will my troubles never end?" Guy was watched carefully, from
            that hour; but how often, when we guard, with a jealous eye, some object of our love,
            does the evil one slip in and foil us at last."
        


        



        

           CHAPTER XXI. THE DEATH OF JENNETTE'S UNCLE.
          
            
              How hard to say farewell
              To our last earthly friend,
              To feel we meet no more
              Till this bleak life is o'er;
              But, waking, on that shore we hope
              To meet where life ne'er ends.
            
          
          It was on a cold, drizzly morning, late in October, when Jennette bid good-bye to the
            faithful and loving friends in the city of Logansport, where she had stayed for three
            years as an humble working girl in a fashionable millinery establishment. Yet,
            notwithstanding her humble calling and all the impediments that had been thrown in her
            way, she left a score of hearts to mourn after her--and those of the best society.
          She had won all hearts by her ever pleasant, cheerful and obliging manner, and on the
            morning we have mentioned, we find her standing by the depot window, one arm around
            little Guy, who had climbed upon the seat and was looking out from the window and asking
            numberless questions about the various objects that met his view, somewhat annoying his
            little mamma, who was trying to hold a conversation with a dozen or more  friends who had accompanied her thither, to see her safely
            started upon her journey.
          She was telling them what she anticipated doing. They all threw up their hands in
            astonishment when they heard her wild intentions. They said everything by way of
            discouraging her; yet, nothing daunted, she altered neither intention nor purpose, but
            laughed at the weakness of her sex, for being so afraid of a new country and civilized
            Indians. And when the train came puffing into the depot, she bid them a cheerful
            good-bye, and, with many blessings and silent prayers wafted after her, she was whirled
            rapidly away to new fields of labor, where the golden sheaves were yet to be gathered
            and where the laurel wreath was held by an unseen hand, to crown one of Indiana's noble
            daughters.
          It was on the evening of the same day that she reached G---, to find her uncle's
            carriage waiting for her, and she was soon landed at the door of his mansion.
          She found him pacing the floor of his room, in great anxiety; he had grown restless in
            waiting, for so like a child had he become, that minutes appeared like hours, and the
            days seemed like so many weeks, since her first letter stating that she was coming. The
            disappointment was terrible in the extreme, when she sent the next letter to inform him
            that she could not come, then but would be there in about three months. He began to grow
            weak, and had been gradually declining ever since. But a few days previous to her  coming, she had written that she would be there that
            evening. Upon this he had appeared to gain strength, and had begun to assume his usual
            lively manner.
          But as we find him now waiting her coming, he was much agitated; and when she opened
            the door and stepped in, he was so overcome as to take her in his arms and cry for joy,
            while he said: "Jennette, you will never leave me again, will you, my little girl?"
          She was touched deeply by his child-like manner; and returning the caress
            affectionately, replied: "No, dear uncle, I have come to keep house for you as long as
            you need a housekeeper."
          "God bless you, my darling," he said, as he sat down overjoyed at the thought--but
            what! is this your little boy, Jennette?"
          "Yes uncle, this is the tiny baby you once knew."
          He held his hands toward him and said: "Come, and sit on grandpa's knee."
          Little Guy hung back, rather reluctant to go. Jennette said, "Come, now, be a man;
            shake hands with Uncle Browning, and you can call him grandpa."
          He walked up and extended the little delicate hand-- "More like a little girl than a
            boy," said Mr. Browning.
          "Yes," said Jennette, "but he is a plucky little fellow, and can talk like a parrot,
            when once he gets acquainted."
          Guy was pleased with the idea of calling him grandpa, for he had so often coveted the
            honor of calling some one by that name. His playmates had some one to call pa and
            grandpa; but he had always felt so lonely  and cast out
            because he could not afford either. So, now, he was so proud of the thought that he sat
            and talked like a man, perched on the knee of the tender, loving, old man and great
            uncle who had taken the place of grandpa and made the whole world look brighter to the
            desolate little heart of the affectionate child.
          Jennette was all over the house, shaking hands with the servants, whom she had no more
            than just seen while an inmate of her uncle's home a few years before. She loved the old
            housekeeper, an Irish woman with flattering tongue, yet good heart, who was now
            complimenting her on her lovely form and her beautiful complexion. Jennette let all
            those things pass without a thought, and said: "Aunty, we would like supper; my little
            boy is worn out and sleepy; so I will help you to get tea ready; then he can eat and go
            to sleep."
          "Och, child, ye needn't help, honey; niver a bit of help do I need! Now, just go long
            to your ould uncle, who's been pinen for ye, for months."
          "Oh, no! Guy is keeping him company," said Jennette, "while we get tea." So moving
            about like a fairy, supper was soon ready, and Uncle Browning came out with little Guy,
            looking happier than he had before for months.
          "Jennette," said Mr. Browning, "I find your boy quite a talker and pretty well posted.
            He has given the news in general and expresses himself as well  pleased with his new grandpa and home and thinks he will like to live on a
            farm."
          "Oh, yes, he is a real little worker and can soon be quite a help," said Jennette, as
            she placed an ottoman on a chair and then sat Guy on top of that to make him high enough
            for the tea table.
          "Grandpa will look after a chair for this purpose," said Mr. Browning, after which he
            returned thanks-- thanking the Father of all good for the blessing of loved ones to
            cheer his declining days.
          Guy ate supper in a very quiet manner, much to the satisfaction of his new-found
            grandpa, and then promptly retired without a word, only kneeling at his mamma's knees to
            say his evening prayer and kissing her good night.
          After he had retired, Jennette and her uncle went back to the sitting room to have a
            quiet talk--she asking all about Mrs, Allen.
          He told her: "Mr. Allen has become a great invalid and a source of real trial to Mrs.
            Allen; he is fretful and cross, and will not allow her to go to a neighbor's house, for
            a moment; and it is telling on her-- she is growing old fast, and very pale and
            careworn, and wants, above all things, to see you, Jennette."
          "Which she shall, bright and early to-morrow morning," she replied.
          Mr. Browning told Jennette that he knew his days were almost numbered and that he hoped
            she would  stay with him until he was laid beside her
            aunt, in the vault where his loved ones all lay.
          She realized the truth of his words when she looked at him and said in her heart: "Time
            is nearly done with him; and he has been a father to me; and I shall be a child to him,
            now," and she slipped up to him and kissed his withered cheek, saying, while the tears
            shone in her eyes: "I have come to stay, dearest of uncles, until the angels come for
            you. So now, good night. We will talk to-morrow, and all the to-morrows that are to come
            for you on earth. We will never part again till death separates us."
          He pressed her to his heart and said: "Oh, how much you are like my own gentle
            daughter." And he went to rest, so full of pleasant thoughts that he slept like a
            child--waking only with the light of day. He was up and dressed much earlier than
            usual--so said Aunty Bridget, to Jennette, who was flying around helping to get
            breakfast, and Guy was up filling the wood box full of wood,, which he had found all
            split and nicely piled up in the wood house.
          This pleased his new grandpa so much that he said "Well, well, did I ever see such a
            smart little boy? You shall have a new chair to sit on at the table, for this, before
            night, now see if you don't."
          Turning to John, the hired man, he said: "John, see to the horse and buggy, bring it
            around and drive myself and this young man," (patting Guy on the head),  "over to the city, after breakfast, and we'll see about a
            chair."
          Guy's eyes shone, as he slyly looked at his mamma.
          Jennette said: "Oh, uncle, he is not used to luxuries, and is fond of working; so,
            please do not spoil him in the beginning."
          "No, no, we will not spoil him; we will just pay him for his honest labor. He shall not
            be found working like this, and be bolstered up with ottomans and cushions, to make him
            high enough to eat from the table."
          So, after breakfast, everything was made ready and Guy was taken over to the city and
            had his choice of chairs--which he believed to be the finest ever made. A little sled
            was added, while a new overcoat and fur cap, and a pair of new mittens--all of which his
            grandpa said he would need to use with his sled when snow came. Guy came home, the
            happiest boy in Indiana, to find his mamma not there to look at the many new things he
            had received from the hand of his new grandpa. He was frightened when he called her and
            she did not answer, but Bridget assured him she had only gone over to see Mrs. Allen and
            would soon be at home.
          Not satisfied with this answer, he asked where the lady lived.
          She told him as best she could; whereupon he started to find her. He made his way to
            the house, as described, and timidly rang the bell.
           Mrs. Allen answered it, asking what he wanted.


          

          He said: "Is my mamma here?"
          "Who is your mamma?"
          "Jennette Browning," he said, drawing himself up with a full breath of relief.
          This was no sooner said than she had him in her arms, covering his face with
            kisses.
          His eyes filled with tears and he struggled to get free, saying: "I want mamma."
          "Oh, yes, you little darling, come with me, I will take you to see her."
          She thereupon led him into the room. Jennette was much surprised to see him, and said:
            "Why, how did you get here, Guy?"
          He replied: "The lady at grandpa's told me how to find you, and I came."
          She kissed him and told him he must not attempt to follow her again, for he might get
            lost or hurt.
          Mrs. Allen was pleased with him and said he was a nice boy, but she had frightened him
            so much in the beginning he would not have much to say to her. He whispered to his
            mamma, however, about the new things grandpa had bought for him in town.
          Jennette exclaimed: "Mrs. Allen, who would have believed I had been here so long. We
            have talked away the whole forenoon, and I have not realized how or where time was
            going."
          Mrs. Allen declared it was such a treat to have her come that she could not think of
            her going until after dinner. 

          

          But Jennette told her Guy had so many new things to show her, that her uncle had got
            for him, she would have to go, for he was impatient to have her see them.
           Mrs. Allen told her to come as often as possible and bring Guy with her; she herself
            could not go away from home a moment.
          Jennette promised her that her time should be as wisely divided between her and her
            uncle as was in her power to choose, and said: "I know your life has been a lonely one
            at best, Mrs. Allen, and now it seems to be almost unbearable. I think Mr. Allen looks
            very badly, indeed, and I do not believe he can last long."
          Mrs. Allen said she wanted him to live as long as it was God's will, but she prayed for
            strength daily, to bear her cross patiently to the end, let the time be long or
            short.
          Jennette asked her if she did not think her uncle was failing very rapidly."
          "Oh, yes, I do not think he will live to see another spring."
          "Do you think so soon as that, Mrs. Allen?" Great tears came into Jennette's eyes, for
            it was an awful thought to lose the last of her earthly kin that was kind to her.
          Mrs. Allen kindly insisted that she should not feel so badly, but try and get yourself
            acquainted with the fact that soon you must give him up.
          Jennette could only press the hand of her good friend and say: "Good day," and taking
            little Guy by  the hand, she hastened homeward; for she
            felt that if a separation was to be so suddenly brought about, she must devote her whole
            time to him.
           Guy asked her what made her so sad, and she said: "Oh, I am sad because grandpa is so
            old--he will soon be taken away, and he is so kind, I cannot bear to think of it."
          His little lip quivered as he said: "Will he die soon, mamma?"
          She saw that the thought made him unhappy and answered more cheerfully: "Oh, no, deary,
            he will perhaps live several years yet." That seemed like a long time to him, and he
            said, hopefully: "Oh, then he will be able to go out with us and walk and ride and talk
            lots yet, won't he, mamma?"
          "Yes," she replied, while the tears filled her eyes.
          When she reached the house, she found her uncle had lain down, completely exhausted
            from his trip and uneasiness about Guy. He was afraid the boy might miss the way, and he
            was too feeble to look after him. But he was glad to know that he and his mamma were
            both back and making home so cheerful. He said that a child's voice in the house was
            sweeter than music to him. He had fallen in love with Guy, "for he is no baby," he said,
            "but a little man."
          Guy showed his mamma all the new things and made as much display of them as possible,
            while Jennette kissed her uncle, and said: "A thousand thanks for all your
            kindness."


          

          Guy said: "I did thank him, mamma, when he first gave them to me."
          "Did you? I am glad of it; but let me thank him again. We cannot be too grateful, Guy,
            for so many blessings."
          He opened his large, blue eyes, and said: "Mamma, I just love my new grandpa."
          Mr. Browning caught him to his breast and said: "I, too, love you, you little ray of
            sunshine. Just came to make me happy, didn't you?"
          "Yes, sir, I hope so," said Guy, manfully.
          The old gentleman nestled back among his cushions, and said: "Jennette, I know I will
            soon have to leave you; and I guess when I'm gone, there is no kindred left that will or
            can do much for you."
          She struggled to keep back the tears, while she replied: "No, uncle, when you are gone,
            all I have in the world to care for me is gone."
          She laid her head on his breast and he stroked her hair tenderly, saying: "Jennette, I
            will have something left, when I'm gone, and I have made my will to this effect: You are
            to have what cash I have on hand at the time of my death. But I have had some
            misfortunes in business, since I saw you last, and I have not so much as people suppose
            I have. Bridget and her husband have been faithful to me for thirty years, and I have
            given them the farm and you the cash. You will find everything fixed and nothing to
            hinder your getting it, when I am gone."


          

          "Ah, uncle, I would much rather have you spared to me than all this world, if it was
            yours to give."
          "Yes, dear, I believe that; I know you love me, but you see I am too old; besides, I
            have outlived all my brothers. And when a Browning dies, he is gone before you know it.
            So I thought it would be best to have a little talk and let you see how matters
            stand."
          "Well, uncle, let us not talk about your dying," said Jennette, "for you may live
            several years, yet; and I will never leave you again."
          He patted her cheek, and said: "It is a comfort to know you love me and want to stay
            with me."
          "You may rest easy on that point, for, verily I do love you as much as if you were my
            own father."
          She got the bible and read to him about Jacob, when he went down into Egypt, and how he
            rejoiced to see his beloved Joseph, and how he blessed each of his sons, then gathered
            up his feet in the bed and died. She said: "Uncle, I will try to fill the place in your
            heart that Joseph did in his father's heart and receive your blessing--that my future
            life may be blessed."
          He smiled, saying: "I am not a Jacob--I wish I was. I wish I had lived a more devout
            life, Jennette, that the blessing I would pronounce upon you might prove a safeguard to
            all your future life."
          She sang for him and read, day after day, from the book of holy writ, often stopping to
            talk a long time on certain passages.
          Thus the days and weeks passed by, Mr. Browning  growing
            weaker as the winter advanced. Jennette seldom got over to see Mrs. Allen, who was
            having a lonely time of it. She told her friend often that her uncle was rapidly
            failing, and she was fearful about leaving him alone, if but for a short time.
          It was nearing Christmas and Guy and all the help about the house were talking a great
            deal about the approaching day. Jennette felt a presentiment of something she could not
            tell what. But when she thought of Christmas, a shudder would run over her. She helped
            to do everything in her power to make things cheerful and was making a nice, warm double
            morning gown for her uncle, for a surprise on Christmas morning.
          Two days before that Christmas came, he complained of being unable to sit up. Jennette
            warmed flannels and wrapped his limbs and did all she could to relieve him, but he grew
            colder and colder, until the eve before the eventful day.
          He said: "Jennette, I will never be warm again, dear; you need not try so hard, honey,
            to get me warmed up, for I am dying."
          "Oh, uncle!" exclaimed Jennette, "do not say so, I will send for a physician at
            once."
          "No, dear, it is useless. I am getting blind. Tell John and Bridget to come, and bring
            Guy."
          Jennette flew to tell them to come and caught up little Guy, to whom she told the
            terrible tidings. He was wild with grief in a moment, for he loved very  devotedly his new grandpa, as he always called him.
          They gathered around the dying man, who gave them each his blessing, and assured them
            their portion was fixed for them, and now he wanted them to lay up riches in a better
            world than this. He wanted to see them all there. Turning his eyes upon Jennette, he
            said: "Good-bye, dearest of all earthly friends."
          She was on her knees beside the bed, holding his hand, which was growing colder and
            colder each moment.
          "Kiss me, Jennette," he said.
          She kissed him, while the tears fell like rain. She lifted the little sobbing,
            broken-hearted Guy up, that he might have one more kiss from the lips of a loving
            grandpa.
          He murmured a blessing for both, and was gone.
          Oh, that lonely night! Jennette never forgot it. She says yet it was one of the saddest
            Christmas eves she ever passed.
          Christmas came with a funeral pall over all to her. She saw strangers preparing to bury
            the body of her idolized uncle, and she sat in mute despair all day long --the saddest
            Christmas day she ever passed--and only now and then was aroused by Guy asking for
            something. She felt like one in a dream.
          Next day found her, the only real mourner, on her way to the burial ground. She saw him
            hid forever from her sight. She went to the house of Mrs. Allen, after the funeral,
            because she could not bear to stay  where everything
            reminded her of her uncle's love and tender care for her.
          Mrs. Allen persuaded her to stay with her until spring. Then she would have better
            weather for going west.
          She accepted the kind invitation, and just one month passed, when another funeral was
            largely attended, and that was the funeral of Mr. Allen.
          Jennette and little Guy remained with Mrs.. Allen until spring, when they turned their
            thoughts in another direction.
        

        
        

           CHAPTER XXII. THE KIDNAPPING AND FRUITLESS SEARCH.
          
            
              Oh, the grief-stricken heart,
              With its idol dethroned,
              What a desolate garden it be;
              All scorched and untended, its violets die,
              And a desolate waste must we see.
            
          

          Now, when Mrs. Allen was made a widow by the death of the one who had filled the place
            of a husband, she was led to realize how fully the heart can become the receptacle of
            secret sorrows far worse than death. "When death robs us of one we love," she said to
            Jennette, one day, as they were planting a sweet briar over the grave of their late
            friend, "we yield with a passive grief, knowing that He who has given has also taken
            away, and now we must look to another source for comfort, hoping that among the living
            we may yet find a balm that will heal our wounds."
          "Mrs. Allen," Jennette replied, "do you know that I have never given up the idea, nor
            abandoned the hope, of finding your daughter, somewhere among the living?"
          "Ah, Jennette, I wish I had just enough faith to grasp one little ray of hope."


          

          "Well, Mrs. Allen, you know I came here some months ago with a view to going west, and
            I have not given up the idea. I have a proposition to make you, which, if you will
            accept, may result in great good and give you a chance, at least, to look among the tide
            of human faces and see if the mother heart you possess can discern the face of the
            little babe which was spirited away from you so long ago."
          "Why, Jennette, what a wild idea. I should never have thought of such a turn in fate as
            that promises to be--I say promises, while I cannot see the bow that spans the sky of my
            future--yet, if the tears I have shed could be gathered together, so that my life's sun
            could cast its reflecting rays upon them, surely the bow of promise would soon extend
            around a world of joys for me."
          As they were returning home, Jennette said: "Let us hurry along, Mrs. Allen, for I left
            Guy to play in a neighbor's yard and I never did such a thing before; so I feel
            uneasy."
          Mrs. Allen laughed at her fears, and said: "You are over careful about him, Jennette;
            you should not burden your mind continually with him, for you need rest from all anxiety
            and care."
          "I know it, yet he is my all, you know."
          By this time, they had reached the gate and Jennette said: "Stay here, Mrs. Allen,
            until I step over the way and get Guy."
          As she ran, rather than walked, Mrs. Allen wondered  what
            Jennette would do, should that child be taken from her. While she was thus thinking, she
            heard her give a startled cry, and then saw her coming, white as death, with a look she
            never could forget.
          "What is it, Jennette, what has happened?"
          "Why, Mrs. Allen, a man came while we were gone and took Guy away with him! The
            children with whom he had been playing came running in breathless haste to report what
            had befallen the little boy."
          "Oh," said Mrs. Allen, "perhaps some one has seen and admired him and only taken him to
            a confectionery store, or something of the kind."
          "No, no," cried Jennette, "it was his father, his own villainous father, I know--I'm
            sure of it, for the children described him. And now, what's to be done? I must, I will be calm--everything depends on my calmness. But
            0, my God, how can I calm this already bursting heart? He--this villain--has wrecked my
            life, and now wants to add the last torture by taking my idol, my all!
            Oh, Mrs. Allen, this wrings my heart! What shall I, what can I do? "
           Mrs. Allen burst into tears, for she remembered that twenty-five years ago, she had
            kissed a fair little face a last farewell, and she knew the exact state of Jennette's
            mind and heart. She took both hands of the wretched girl in her own and pressed them
            tenderly, saying: "Just try and keep as calm and steady nerves as possible, Jennette,
            and remember your uncle left you three thousand dollars in cash--that you can spend  in employing detectives and hunting down this villain."
          Jennette's faint heart took a little courage, and she replied: "Thank you for the
            suggestion, Mrs. Allen; I am glad you are here to think for me, for my brain reels and
            my head and heart both seem at a loss to know how to perform the work assigned
            them."
          The news went out all over the city, that a child was kidnapped and great excitement
            pervaded every mother heart. People ran to and fro, talking, wondering and planning the
            best and most feasible means, of capturing the guilty wretch.
          Jennette walked the floor all night and devised every plan that the human mind could
            conceive, how or where to go, to be most successful in finding her boy. This was the
            first night in all his short life that she did not know where he was.
          Morning came, finding the poor girl very feverish and much worn out, but with a
            determined purpose in her heart to capture Cooper and bring to justice, at last, the man
            who had caused her so many heartaches and useless sorrows.
          Authorities were telegraphed in every direction, and it was ascertained that a man of
            Cooper's description had taken the train just five miles from that city, accompanied by
            a child and another man, who was seen to get off at the next station, leaving the
            dark-haired man to travel alone with his restless charge.
          When Cooper had found out the whereabouts of Jennette and her boy, he resolved to
            kidnap the child, and  now he had succeeded, even beyond
            his expectations. He employed the same man who had assisted at the heart-breaking of
            Blackburn. As he was a double-dyed villain, there was no lengths to which he would not
            go; therefore Cooper used him in all his dark and fiendish works. And it was in this way
            that they thought of doing this crowning act, this master-piece of infamy. Cooper
            resolved that Jennette should not slip out of his clutches, so easily as she thought she
            had done. Thus he determined upon the plan of getting his friend to help him, and they
            would capture and carry off the child to a distant land, and hide in some secluded
            place, from whence she could never recover him. This, to Cooper, was sweet revenge, for
            her last refusal to marry him.
          So it was on the evening we have mentioned, that after skulking around the premises of
            Mrs. Allen and Jennette's uncle, gathering all the facts they could concerning her, that
            Cooper boldly made his way into the yard of the neighbor we have mentioned, and picked
            up master Guy, and carried him off, much against his will. Cooper told him his mamma had
            gone and left him, and he was going to take him back to his grandma and aunt Minnie.
            This satisfied and quieted him for the time being, believing he was going home, as he
            called it. Yet he told them frankly that he knew his mamma never deserted him, and that
            she would cry very hard, when she found he was gone. "Besides," he said, sobbing
            pitifully, "mamma was going west and I  wanted to go with
            her; for how can I live without her."
          To this Cooper had another delusive promise, to set him at ease--until he fell asleep
            in the car seat, to awaken many miles away from the mother who was wildly distracted
            about him.
          Jennette drew the money, her uncle had left her, from the bank, and started alone on
            the road from which the tidings had come of Cooper's last appearance. She traveled many
            weary miles before stopping to even quench her thirst which was now, almost parching her
            tongue. As for eating, she said she felt as if she would never hunger again; for how
            could she care to support such a miserable life, as hers henceforth must be should never
            find her little boy--her Guy.
          At length, stopping in one of the leading cities of Minnesota, she made diligent
            inquiry as to who had registered at the different hotels, and also ascertained whether
            or not a man had come in, or gone out of, the city, answering to the description of
            Cooper. It was growing late in the afternoon, and the train she had intended taking to
            further her on her journey would not be in till 8 P. M., and she was so worn out that
            she would have to rest herself. Anxiously casting about for some quiet place to sit and
            think what next to do, she saw a little white cottage near the depot, to which she bent
            her weary steps, and asked the kind lady who met her at the door if she might come in
            and rest until the train came in that she was waiting for?"
          "Oh, yes," replied the woman, "I often entertain the 
            tired traveler, as my house happens to stand in the way. Sit down, while I make you a
            cup of tea. You look very much worn out. Have you trouble, Miss?"
          Jennette's eyes filled with tears, and she said: "More than my heart knows how to
            bear."
          The good lady, being of rather a talkative nature, did not stop for her to finish her
            story, but went right on, saying she was reminded of an instance that happened the day
            before. She said: "There was a man came in here yesterday and asked me to let him have
            some bread and milk for his little boy. He said the mother of the child had deserted him
            and he was trying to get to friends in California, that he might be able to take care of
            him. I gave the little fellow a bowl of bread and milk, and he began eating it; but all
            at once he stopped and cried piteously and said: 'I want to go to mamma! I want to go to
            mamma, and I don't want any more to eat.' The gentleman, or father of the child, seemed
            deeply moved; he drew him to his breast and tried to solace him, but he refused to be
            comforted. His father grew impatient, at last, and threatened him severely. Then he
            crept away and stood at the door, looking pale and scared, and I felt sorry for the
            little, helpless fellow."
          Jennette sprang to her feet and eagerly inquired which way he went--if she knew what
            train he had taken; and wringing her hands in agony, she said: "Oh, my lady, that was
              my baby boy! That was my baby! Do tell me where
            his wicked, unnatural father  has taken him. Oh, God! this
            is killing me." And she fell fainting to the floor.
          The tender-hearted little woman bustled around very much excited; and calling in her
            neighbors, she administered restoratives. Soon she had Jennette propped back in a large
            chair and said she must now tell them all what distressed her so.
          Jennette gave them a full explanation of the situation, at the termination of which,
            she sank back exhausted. Mrs. Platt, the lady who had treated her so kindly, brought her
            the tea she had made, and she drank it and felt refreshed.
          The people near the depot were excited over the affair, and all had something to say
            about the man and the little boy of the day before. Some said he had taken a train.
            Others declared he did not take the train at all, but started on foot, leading the
            little boy. while a few told her he had taken the train going out on the same road he
            came in on.
          Jennette was left in a quandary; she could not tell what to do or how to proceed. After
            consulting her best judgment, she concluded to hire two good detectives and let them
            look around the city and through the country, until she was satisfied with the search,
            let it result as it would, but the search must be a thorough one.
          Therefore those employed went to work with a will. It was discovered in a few days that
            Cooper had eluded the officers of the law by going out into the country a  few miles and taking board with an old farmer, where Guy
            became more reconciled, for there were children of his own age to play with and milk to
            drink. After they had stayed a day, Cooper could not by persuasion obtain Guy's consent
            to leave, but had to take him by force to the little station beyond, where he took the
            train for Oregon. He thought of staying in that country for a few weeks, where he might
            again throw the detectives off the track. And in order to do so, he ordered a suit of
            girl's clothes made for little Guy, who was ever ready to be a man, and a little
            gentleman, too, but who was now so humiliated at the idea of donning female attire, that
            nothing but the severest threatenings from his father could induce him to put them on.
            But he knew it was useless, so he accepted his fate and suffered himself thus to be
            humiliated, even to being called "Goldie." This was the name his father chose for him,
            for his hair was like that of his mother, a golden color, and differed only in the
            manner of curling --his hung in a mass of long curls which became his girlish appearance
            very much. Cooper wore a false beard and a wig, so that it was a very shrewd detective
            that could ferret him out in such disguise. He stopped with a farmer again a few days,
            then went to the capital city, where he found rooms for himself and the little boy. Thus
            he lived six weeks in silent seclusion, watching every paper and counting the cost if he
            should be found. He saw large rewards offered for his capture and the return of the
            child.


          


           The reader must remember that Mrs. Allen had great wealth and a heart in keeping with
            it, so she had offered a liberal reward for the arrest of the guilty man and the
            restoration of the child to its mother.
          When he had stayed in this city, until he found detectives were again on his track, he
            left the place, making straight for California, to find the whereabouts of his brother,
            who was at that time in the mining business.
          Strange to say, as closely as the detectives watched every coming train, at city or
            station, they never got hold of the scheme of the little boy girl. Therefore he slipped
            through and was soon lost in the great mining country. His brother, who had been there
            several years, knew all the caves and secluded spots to which a man might go and be lost
            to the world at large. He was, moreover, a man capable of helping forward a fiendish
            plot--the brothers were very much alike in principle. This was a grand opening for Jay,
            and he availed himself of the privilege. He was soon secluded where the shrewdest
            detective might be thrown off his guard and puzzled beyond any probability of
            success.
          But where was Jennette--poor little tired heart? Oh, the lonely, the utterly desolate
            hours that were passing over her head as she went from city to city, looking out every
            hovel and inquiring of every ticket agent in depots and wayside stations. She wore a
            wild, haggard expression and was looked upon with pity by all who knew her story. She
            was going, at one time, to a town in Iowa, for she had lost all clue to Cooper  and just kept following out her impressions as to the best
            way to go, when she was suddenly startled, at a small station, where, among the few who
            got on the train, she discovered Mr. Blackburn. She felt a chill seize her; she could
            not move; but, looking him steadily in the eye, as he met her gaze, the two were almost
            paralyzed. But he felt in a moment that, as a Christian minister and the woman before
            him whom he had wronged by a hasty conclusion, that an opportunity had presented itself
            for him to beg the lady's pardon. So, suiting the action to the promptings of his heart,
            he stepped manfully up to where she was sitting and said: "Jennette!"
          She replied, "Mr. Blackburn."
          He shook like a leaf when she so familiarly called his name. He took her hand and said:
            "Jennette, you know what has passed and I know all. Will you, or can you, forgive one
            who has never forgotten you for an hour, since we last met?"
          Jennette, though broken-hearted, still had within her a spirit of pride and too high a
            sense of honor to so suddenly forgive one that had so humiliated her by his rashness.
            She curled her lip a little scornfully as she said: "Sir, to err is human, but to
            forgive is divine."
          He looked down upon her very tenderly, for with the sight of her, came all that old
            love he had cherished for her in the past; and his eyes filled with tears as he said:
            "Shall I ask what has brought you away out in  this
            country, and seemingly all alone, looking so lonely and wretched--will you tell me?"
          She swallowed back the great lump that seemed to rise in her throat, and while a spasm
            of pain contracted her features, she said: "Yes, I will tell you--most assuredly, I
            will. I am here looking for that which is dearer to me than all the world beside."
          A flush passed over his face and left it pale as death, for he believed she had
            reference to himself and thought she was on the lookout for him.
          She divined his thoughts, and looking him straight in the eye, she said: "Sir, you
            remember my little boy?"
          "Yes, Jennette," he said, changing countenance.
          "Well, you remember I told you his father was a villain. Perhaps you have learned ere
            this, that my words were true."
          "Most assuredly, I have, Jennette."
          "Well, he kidnapped the child, and I am a lone wanderer in the world, trying to find
            him--and shall never give up the search until I do."
          "Why, Jennette, you astonish me. Is it possible you are alone hunting your child; the
            little fellow whom you loved so devotedly? Well, Jennette, I have never forgiven myself
            for the wretchedness I caused you by listening to what that villain and his companion
            had to tell me. To think I was such a dupe."
          But she stopped him short by saying, "If I suffered much, I think it would have taken a
            better detective to  have discovered it than I can
            possibly employ now to work for me."
          He was greatly abashed at her boldness of speech, and sat thinking for some time, when
            he broke the silence by saying, "Jennette, I stop off at the next station; will you not
            stop with me? Let me provide you with a comfortable home for a few days. I am boarding
            with one of my parishioners, where you will be most cordially received and well cared
            for. You look as if you needed rest, and I want to help you. I will help you in your
            search for your boy, and if possible undo some of the past by performing a kind act at
            present,"
          "I would accept help from any one, let it be whom it would, just now, for I feel so
            helpless and am so worn out and weary, I have almost concluded my search will be in
            vain. But then, again, I feel that Cooper cannot go farther than I can, nor hide where I
            will fail to look for him, for my soul cries for revenge more loudly than ever it did
            before in all the years of suffering he has caused me."
          He renewed his invitation for her to stop off and rest, but she was reluctant to bide
            longer than a day or two, for she said time was precious. It was putting distance
            between her and her child, and that was such a torture, she could not endure it.
          But he showed her it was a vain thing to keep going, unless she knew in what direction
            Cooper had gone. He told her to stay with him a week or so and he would correspond with
            her detectives, and perhaps they might  get a clue to his
            whereabouts; then they could make straight for his den, let it be where it would.
          She concluded this was good advice, and when the train pulled into the quiet little
            country town, she had made up her mind to stop with her old friend and lover and await
            the outlook of things.
          There seemed to be luck in leisure, for not many days passed by before Mr. Blackburn
            received the intelligence that Cooper had arrived in California, but no further
            knowledge of him could be obtained. This was like the oil of gladness poured in upon
            Jennette's wounded and broken heart. She said it was a solace to her to know the state
            to which her child had been taken, even if she could not tell where he was hidden.
          Jennette consented to have Mr. Blackburn accompany her, so he left his parish for an
            indefinite length of time, and of their adventures we shall learn hereafter.

        

        

        
           CHAPTER XXIII. CHARLIE HAYWARD FINDS A WIFE.
          
            
              'Tis hard for lives to drift apart,
              When they might drift together,
              And harder still that fate should be
              So stern, so cruel, as we see,
              That those who love should ever be
              Thus cruelly torn asunder.
            
          
          We must now look after Charlie Hayward and his interests, which we have neglected
            already too long. Buelah Lenhart and the young girl, who had gained a home and friends
            in the hour of her liberation from the Indians, had become bosom friends and loved each
            other as sisters do. But Buelah had found another love, which, while it differed from
            that which she gave the fair and gentle Fern, it was so closely allied that she need not
            divide her heart. For, while she loved a dark-eyed man more than tongue could tell,
            still she had ample room for the sweet young lady who was ever at her side--only when
            Charlie came near, then she would frame an excuse to leave Buelah with the man whom she
            knew she loved devotedly. Charlie grew interested in her, as we have mentioned in our
            last chapter, yet, the tender interest never ripened into a  deep and passionate love. Day by day, he saw too plainly to be mistaken that she was
            learning to love him more and more--until the thought occurred to him that he might be a
            happier and perhaps a better man, if he would marry the frail girl. For he said to
            himself: "I am placed where I can never marry the one I loved; so, now, if by chance I
            leave this place and these people, who treat me so kindly, and seek another home among
            strangers and leave this girl to suffer, as I have suffered in heart and mind, I fear a
            swift judgment may follow. And while Buelah is not strong, physically, I believe she has
            the soul of a pure, true woman, and I must teach my heart to care for her more tenderly;
            and if it is agreeable to all concerned, I will make her my wife, if she does not live a
            year. I will do all I can to make her happy during her earthly stay, and perhaps her
            tender Christian life and example will have a good influence upon my life and make me a
            better man."
          So, after settling upon this conclusion, he acted without delay; and in about a month
            after Fern had become a member of the family, he asked Buelah to take a walk with him
            one afternoon--and that was the day and time in which he sealed his fate as the husband
            of Buelah, who, though frail, was pure, good and noble and loved Charlie Hayward with a
            pure womanly love and a desire to make him happy and turn his thoughts from the sad
            things of the past; for, in her heart she believed that if Jennette Browning had loved
               him truly, she would never have listened to the voice
            of others and left him to go out alone in the world, feeling so wretched.
          The reader will remember that Buelah did not know how peculiarly Jennette was situated;
            therefore we forgive her judgment, with sympathy for the feeling she manifested, knowing
            that, if she had known her, it would only have been to have loved her and wept at the
            sad perplexities of a sister woman.
          Charlie offered Buelah his hand and the remnants of a broken heart--as he declared,
            when he told her that he would make her life as bright as it was possible for a man,
            situated as he was, to do.
          Buelah was content, for she fully believed she could cement the broken fragments and
            teach him what a loyal love was.
          They walked home under the pale moonbeams and wondered what the future had in store for
            them. Charlie proposed that he should enter at once upon the practice of his profession
            by going to a small town in old Virginia, where he had anticipated beginning his career
            as a physician. She agreed, saying that she believed the climate would agree with her
            there, and she would grow stronger under sunny skies and mountain air.
          They separated for the night--each to think calmly over the new relation. Buelah was
            buoyant in spirits, believing Charlie had never been loved as she loved him, and truly
            confident that she could inspire him  with new life and
            new hopes, and that he would learn to look upon the past as a horrid nightmare, from
            which he had found a sweet and happy awakening.
          Charlie made known his desires to the devoted parents of his betrothed, who, while they
            were perfectly satisfied with their daughter's choice, and smiled when he gave them his
            promise to be a true and devoted husband, reluctantly gave him their consent, for they
            said she was too feeble for a wife, and that to be separated from her--as he anticipated
            going away from that place --was a source of grief to them. And now that she had found a
            new friend to make her life among heathenish people, more pleasant and desirable, they
            felt as though she ought to remain a year longer.
          But he argued that he wanted to go to Virginia, had been intending to go soon anyway,
            but now as he had made up his mind to take Buelah with him, he was more than ever
            anxious to be going. So after an hour's interview he went in search of Buelah, whom he
            found waiting his coming with a happy smile, for she knew her parents would never refuse
            to give her to the man she loved, even should they not approve her choice. But as it was
            Charlie Hayward, she knew they would have nothing to say except that they were sorry to
            see her leave the parental roof.
          Charlie looked bright and wore a relieved countenance; for, somehow, he felt that the
            step he had taken was toward the right, and the next one would place him where he would
            be beyond the worry and fret of things  past and things
            present, and things to come would occupy his thoughts in the future. "But oh," he said
            to himself--and Buelah saw the look of pain pass over his face--"I can never, never love her, as I did Jennette, my darling little Hoosier girl." But
            the look of sorrow passed off as quickly as it came, and he said: "Be still, my heart,
            now and forever, we must forget Jennette and try to make others happy." So, pressing
            Buelah's little velvety hand, he said to her: "Buelah, are you truly and sincerely
            happy, dear?"
          She looked at him very tenderly, while the tears stole into her handsome eyes, and
            replied: "Perfectly, Charlie--only one thing to cloud the horizon of my life, now."
          "And what is that?" inquired he.
          "Why, that you are not just as happy."
          He drew her to him, imprinting a kiss upon her lips, and said: "Buelah, I have not been
            so happy in years." And he spoke the truth, for he saw, as wise men often do, that a
            good and gentle woman was necessary to his future life, both as a counselor and
            co-worker. He knew she had not the physical strength to help him much, but her mind was
            prolific of much good and, consequently, was just what he needed.
          Fern was pleased and yet sad at the thought of Buelah getting married, for she saw in
            this a separation for them, and that, to her, was painful indeed.
          Preparations soon began in earnest for the quiet little wedding that was to take place
            Christmas eve--  happening to be the very Christmas eve on
            which Jennette's uncle died, leaving her so desolate. Yet how kind the Hand that reaches
            down and holds the veil between us and greater sorrows, sometimes. Just so it was on
            that memorable evening. If Jennette could have known that while death was robbing her of
            a loved one, life was holding a cup of grief still more poignant, could she but have
            tasted its bitter dregs. But wisely was this truth hidden from her.
          Charlie told Buelah they would not leave Miss Fern behind, that she would need a friend
            and companion when he was gone, and that if Fern would help her in her domestic affairs
            they would be glad to have her go along. This was glorious news for both the young
            ladies, and when everything was in readiness, the minister from the village, a few miles
            distant, came over and said the words that bound together Charlie Hayward and Buelah
            Lenhart for life. And as all things were prepared for the wedding tour, they started in
            a few days to their Virginia home. Charlie had made ample means for a good home and
            plenty to live on until his practice developed into a paying one--and he had made it all
            trading with the Indians and selling furs in foreign markets.
          After a pleasant journey of five days, they arrived at their destination among the
            mountains in a little village, near one of those grand old mountain peaks, so prevalent
            in the state of Virginia. It was here Mr. Hayward had determined to locate with his
            delicate  bride and establish for himself a reputation
            worthy of the proudest lady in the land. As there were several older physicians in the
            place, it took money and patience, to overcome the prejudice of the people, who looked
            upon him as "a young back-woods quack," as they called him. But he was determined to
            succeed. So, he went to Richmond and attended a thorough course of lectures, which
            entitled him to a diploma in his profession. Then he went to work in real earnest, and
            soon became noted for his skill. He was a man who never looked back, when once he had
            set his eye upon an object, with a purpose to accomplish it, and in a year's time he had
            built up quite a comfortable practice, with a growing prospect.
          Buelah was the happiest of women, and Fern was ever ready to shoulder all her burdens
            and lighten the pathway of the friend she dearly loved. Buelah's health kept on the
            decline, in spite of all that loving hands and tender hearts could do for her. She was
            failing rapidly, and this, to Charlie, was a source of great grief, for he felt that she
            had come in his way just when he so much needed a friend. She had proven the balm that
            had healed the wound he never would have believed could have been healed, when first he
            reached that western home. And now, must she be taken away to leave him desolate again?
            Yet, he knew within his heart he had never loved her with that passionate love he had
            given Jennette, but he said: "I love her and am happy in her great love for me."


          

           When a year had gone by, Buelah gave birth to a bright little baby girl and believed
            it the happiest hour of her life when she could hold to her bosom the child of her heart
            and feel that mother love well up from her soul. Charlie was proud of the little
            dark-eyed cherub, for he felt a father's pride and love; and he said his soul grew
            larger, his heart expanded and his ideas brightened at the thought of a happy
            future.
          Buelah seemed to grow stronger for some months, and Charlie took courage, believing
            that the flush upon her cheek would prove to be a sign of returning health.
        


        

        



           CHAPTER XXIV. THE DAWNING OF BETTER DAYS.
          
            
              Your high and lofty mountains
              Rise full before our eye.
              We wonder at their loveliness,
              Yet, never dream of what distress
              Within your shadows lie.
            
          

           Old Virginia--the grand old state--a state noted for its noble statesmen and brave
            warriors from the early settlement of Jamestown down to the present day. The
            commonwealth that has furnished more presidents for the United States than any other
            state in the Union. The home of Washington, Madison, Monroe and Jefferson. Within thy
            borders were the battlefields of the revolution, many Indian wars, and the great
            rebellion. Notwithstanding the blot of human slavery was upon thee for nearly a century,
            and thy soil is stained with the blood of thousands of the best and most patriotic
            citizens of the nation, we love thy mountain peaks, thy beautiful landscapes, thy grand
            rivers, thy sparkling streamlets, majestic hills and fertile valleys. The hand of Him
            who sends "the rain and sunshine upon the just and the unjust" has tempered thy sunny
            clime and  tinted the skies over thy broad domain with the
            brightest hues of springtime, the clear blue of midsummer, the hazy tints of autumn and
            gray clouds of winter. We love thy chivalrous people, notwithstanding many of thy sons
            were numbered among the followers of Lee, Jackson and Longstreet--many were also found
            on the side of Grant, Sherman and Sheridan, fighting for union, liberty and everlasting
            peace, and were among the bravest of the brave. Virginia has a great history and a great
            people; many thousands of happy homes and loving hearts are within thy borders, oh,
            Virginia! It was in this state that one of the characters of my Hoosier story found her
            birth-place, and met and lost the object of her early love--a loss worse than death.
          Buelah and Charlie had now made Virginia their home for some time and had shown some
            progress in their home place, in the way of town property. They owned their home and
            several vacant lots, and Buelah would say to him: "Let us get houses built upon our lots
            and improve them. We will thus improve our town by helping to carry on the spirit of
            progress-- which will be beneficial to us in many ways."
          He would always laugh and tell her she was quie a financier, but that she must not
            indulge in too much anxiety about financial affairs, for she had all she could do to
            take care of her babe and look after her domestic employments. Of course, Fern was
            constantly with her, firm and true to her post, and she was happy in waiting upon Buelah
            and the sweet little babe, whom  she loved devotedly.
            While she was waiting upon Buelah, she received a letter each week from Otho, who was
            still in school, but his thoughts were always upon the little damsel, away down in old
            Virginia, where he hoped soon to go. For, as vacation was near at hand, he anticipated
            visiting his sister and seeing again the one whom he was fast learning to prize very
            highly. From her letters--for she wrote to him punctually-- he learned the depth of her
            mind and her high appreciation of the great favor and kindness his parents had conferred
            upon her, and he said to himself: "While she is a Helen in beauty, she has a soul which
            excels all else; and when I finish my education, I shall attempt to make her my
            wife."
          Charlie was now riding day and night, and his fame as a physician becoming acknowledged
            by every one-- his practice increasing all the time, and he felt himself a new
            creature--in circumstances, at least; for how differently things had turned around for
            him since he left the little village of B---, some five years before. He was a young man
            then, with no wealth but strong and willing hands and an energy to back him in any
            undertaking. Yet, it was with a heavy heart that he left Indiana, and on reaching the
            Indian Territory he felt as though, should he follow out his natural inclinations, he
            would become a hermit and live for self only --with just enough determination to
            maintain a miserable existence. But, acting upon better judgment and a higher sense of
            duty to himself, he had conquered,  and now was in the
            full enjoyment of more than he ever expected to possess; and had it not been for his
            wife's failing health, he would have been a comparatively happy man. Yet he never could
            get rid of one thought. It was the sorest of trials to him to know that Jennette still
            lived, and, as he believed, still loved him, even though the wife of another. But how
            strange to say that in all these years he had never learned how she had been betrayed
            and cruelly wronged, never having written a word to any of his friends, and it so
            happening in the time no one with whom he was acquainted had ever run across his path to
            drop him a word of information.
          So, up to this time, he was ignorant of all that had befallen her. Hence, he thought of
            her ever as an unloving and unloved wife, made such by the promise to a dying father,
            who had wrung it from her lips, and she--sweet young creature that she was--would not
            allow herself to break it. Notwithstanding all this, he loved the devoted Buelah and his
            bright-eyed babe, and life was much more to him than he could have anticipated a few
            years before. And now, while all things seemed to be so promising, there came an event
            which proved to be a wonderful revelation, in the way of a disclosure, and providential
            in its nature.
          As we have stated, Buelah wanted houses built upon the vacant lots they had purchased,
            and Charlie, wishing to please her and improve the town, set about the work of building.
            Among the carpenters who came to  him for work, was a man,
            apparently about forty-nine or fifty years of age; and he made the statement that he had
            only recently taken up the trade--that he had been a professional man at one time, but
            meeting with misfortune, fate had decreed for him another lot in life, and he said he
            supposed he would have to accept it. As the building was rather a high one, Charlie had
            tried to get skilled men to work upon it, but not finding such men as the work required,
            he had to take such as he could procure, and thus accepted this man's services.
            Accordingly he went to work, and having been sent to the top of the building for
            something, lost his foothold and fell to the ground, to be taken up with a broken arm
            and dislocated hip. It was a pitiable condition for a stranger to be placed, with no
            means to help himself, and the inquiry was, "What shall we do with him? He has no money
            to hire a nurse and there is no hospital in the place to take him to."
          Dr. Hayward had been sent for, and upon his arrival the question was settled
            immediately.
          "Take him to my house," he replied to their questions as to what must be done, "there
            are two tender nurses there, and we will see to it that he gets on his feet again." So a
            messenger was dispatched to tell Buelah of the circumstance, and prepare her for his
            coming.
          When they arrived with the poor, unfortunate man, there was a neat white couch ready to
            receive him, and tender, sympathetic hearts ready to provide for all his (21)  wants. He was so helpless, so dependent upon others for
            strength in his weakness, that he felt like a babe in the hands of strangers--and
            accordingly learned to love those who cared so tenderly for him, as though they were his
            own kindred. He said, "An own child could not be more tender than that angel, Fern."
          She thought of the time when kind strangers had taken her in and given her a home,
            pitying her youth and her great misfortune, "And now," she said, "I will pity this poor
            man for his age and misfortune."
          Day after day found her by his bed-side, ever ready to prepare some nice dish to tempt
            the appetite, or sit by him and tell him something of her life among the Indians. These
            stories always interested him more than anything he had ever listened to. He thought how
            strangely sad it must have been to have lost all her friends by the cruel Indians, then
            to have been taken to live with them. It was a pathetic story, yet one he never wearied
            of; and when his arm got strong enough to use it, he often stroked her soft silken hair,
            and said to her one day, "You remind me very much of a young lady I knew in the long
            ago; you have her ways, and your hands are just the same little slender, delicate hands
            that show noble blood. Did you say you knew nothing of your parentage?"
          "No, I know nothing, only that they lived somewhere in this state and for some cause
            abandoned me when I was a six-weeks-old babe. But my foster mother often spoke of my
            parents as being of the highest circles,  and said my
            mother was a lady by birth and a pure, sweet woman; but circumstances that surrounded
            her held her in such a position to the world that she dare not openly acknowledge
            me--while yet I was a legitimate child. But she never knew my father, did not know his
            name, and that my grandmother said he was a fine man and a lawyer, but poor, and not fit
            for a daughter of theirs to marry, but that she had clandestinely married him, and now
            that my grandfather had him under arrest and my mother plighted to a gentleman of
            wealth, I would have to be spirited away and forever kept from view. For this I feel
            humiliated; I feel that my mother ought to have braved dangers of any kind on purpose to
            have kept her child. My foster mother finally told me that she would take me back to
            Virginia and let me find out all I could and recover my property, which, if I could
            prove my identity, would be a very large sum. I am at last in my native state, but with
            no visible clue to anything. It is all a mystery, and I presume will always remain
            such."
          Lifting her eyes from her work, she noticed that a deathly pallor had crept into the
            stranger's face, while she had been talking, and feeling alarmed, she jumped up, threw
            down her work and ran for water, and raising his head, she put the cup to his lips. He
            sipped a little of it, and said: "My little girl, I am overpowered with what you have
            been telling me," but he wisely withheld his thoughts from her, and said in his heart:
               "Here is the beginning, or the key, rather, to a great
            mystery."
          Now, this man had been haunted for years with the thought of one he felt he had
            wronged, indirectly; and one for whom he had been so cruelly wronged,
            that it had taken all his youth to atone for what he had never deemed a wrong, in
            reality.
          It took the most of the summer for him to get well, but at last, with good care and
            kind treatment, he got up and and around again, looking older by ten years than he did
            the day he had fallen from the house. "Yet," he said, "I believe I am a wiser man."
          Charlie's kindness had so completely won him, that he could not bear to leave him now;
            so he proposed to stay and take care of his horses and be chore boy for him, for, he
            said, now that he was a cripple and old, and had no friends, he had enemies that would
            love to haunt his very shadow.
          Charlie asked him the nature of such trouble, or why he had such bitter enemies. He
            could tell, he said, but would rather not, for he believed he already held the key that
            would unlock a mystery he had long been trying to solve.
          As the days went by he grew stronger and was a worshiper of the fair and gentle Fern.
            He watched her with renewed interest day after day, and wondered at her loveliness.
          As the old gentleman grew stronger, he was getting anxious to be doing something
            besides playing chore  boy, "For now," he said to Fern, "I
            have a work to do that will call for money, and I must make it without fail--and with
            these hands too. I have seen the day that I could have made, at my profession, as much
            in an hour as I can now in a month."
          "I would return to my profession, then," said the fair little Fern.
          "Well, child, I reckon if I should, there would things come to light that would amaze
            you. But I shall not at present do anything of that kind, for it has been my lot to be
            shut out from the world for twenty years or more, and not until very recently have I
            known what ever became of some of my best friends, and some are yet lost to me."
          He was a fine looking gentleman, and as Fern stood in the door, with the sunshine
            playing through her light silken hair, she was melted to tears by the pathetic story and
            the proud, yet humbled old gentleman before her--for, indeed, he was humbled to the
            dust.
          It was with tears of gratitude that he left his hospitable friends and bent his steps
            toward the spot where he had once been loved by, and had loved in return, a young lady
            of pure and generous impulses. But, alas, she was not there. Neither could he find the
            old gentleman that had once been an inmate of the now uninhabited mansion, and the man
            who had so fearfully wronged him by robbing him of his youth and of her he held most
            dear. He went about the neighborhood  asking a few
            questions as to the deserted house, but appearing more solicitous about work than
            anything else, he was not suspected by any one of being his own detective and of having
            an interest in connection with that house, or, rather, with the family that once
            occupied it.
          He found that war had left its devastating impress upon everything. Wherever he turned,
            no familiar objects met his view. The war was a thing of the past, but its desolating
            influences had been keenly felt and all the surroundings wore the aspect of ruin and
            desolation.
          He found lodging with a kind old farmer in the vicinity, who also hired him to do some
            light work on the farm, promising to lend a helping hand to find him better employment
            in the future. This he did by getting him into a mill near by as a book-keeper. This
            position he filled with satisfaction to himself and to his employer, and it gave him an
            opportunity to see and talk with the people of the surrounding country and a good chance
            to find out what had become of the family that once occupied the deserted house. This
            was the theme that was occupying his mind, and engaging his every thought until his
            brain almost reeled and he could scarcely keep his mind clear enough to perform his
            duties--a thing he must do at all hazards, for his position was a responsible one, and
            he himself was none other than Harry Fleming, seeking out his bride of twenty-five years
            before.


          

          He was trying to find the ones that had falsely accused him and sworn to lies, that he
            might be imprisoned, and thus be ruined for life. He had never yet learned the fate of
            his bride. He knew if she lived, she was a mother, but never knew whether his child was
            a boy or girl, or where they were. He only remembered that her father had told him at
            his conviction for theft, that he should never see her again, and that he should be an
            outcast and a vagabond the balance of his life. Although gray hairs were scattered like
            snow flakes, over his head, he was back again with a determined purpose to seek out and
            bring to justice the ones that had wrecked his life and perpetrated this notorious
            crime. And he vowed he would find her for whom his soul yearned so tenderly--though
            years had elapsed since they last met. He felt in his heart that Fern was the child of
            his secret marriage. There was a sympathetic feeling between them that was in closer
            union than was natural to strangers; besides, he said, "her story coincides with the act
            of a wicked, unfeeling father toward a self-willed daughter," and he believed it was
            none other than his child, and her grandfather was the one who took her from the bosom
            of her mother and thrust her out among strangers, not caring whether she lived or
            died--but rather hoping that she might die. And his poor, heart-broken wife--what had
            she been doing all these years? and if she married another man, had she loved him? This
            was a question that perplexed him, and he said within his heart, "I know she  loved me devotedly, and to lose her babe must have broken
            her heart completely, and if I live, I'll find who and where the villains are that have
            caused so much suffering, and if this sweet Fern should prove to be my
            child, we will find her mother. Who knows how much there is yet in store for me? We will
            see--perhaps I may find my Anna yet."

        



        
        


           CHAPTER XXV. OTHO AND FERN ARE UNITED IN MARRIAGE.
          
            
              We part from loved ones, but to meet
              Where parting is no more,
              Our love we link with other love,
              And thus embrace a solace there,
              As waves that kiss the shore.
            
          
          While Dr. Hayward was building up a worthy name and reputation and getting situated to
            live, there was an unseen hand that kept tapping at the door of his heart, warning him
            that soon he must give up the object for which he had labored so faithfully--his
            tenderly devoted wife. He saw the work of the destroyer written on her face, in lines
            too plain to be mistaken. Fern wept often, when alone, over the thought that one so
            young, so gentle, so devotedly tender, should be called on to pass through the cold
            river of death. "Oh," she said, "we can stand upon the margin of the dark waters with
            her, but the pale boatman must carry her over alone, and her little girl and sorrowing
            husband with their fatherless and motherless friend, must stay on this side."
          Buelah was failing fast. Friends said she could not 
            live; yet, each day, she sat up a while and conversed cheerfully with her loved ones.
            Her parents were summoned and her brothers, Otho and Glen, also came to see her for the
            last time. She talked in a whisper and told them she was ready to go, but if God had
            willed it so, she would much rather live for the sake of him who was so dear to her and
            the sweet babe she loved so well; but when she was gone she asked to be remembered and
            that her little girl might be guided to Him who cares for the orphan. She asked Charlie
            to meet her in a world where death could never separate them more, and exhorted Fern to
            come where there was no more parting. Turning to her parents and brothers, she said: "I
            know you will be there in that world of light where the sun never sets and the leaves
            never fade, and the faithful shall behold Him who has suffered so much for us."
          It was an awful hour for Charlie, to stand face to face with death, knowing that its
            icy fingers were reaching for those tender heart-strings, and soon he would stand alone
            again. He sat down by her, took both her hands in his, pressed the lips that soon would
            meet his no more in fond affection, and wept as strong men do, when greatly moved. He
            promised her that he would try to reach the better world, and by an exemplary life bring
            little Lillian, their baby, with him.
          This seemed a solace to her, and she put her arms around his neck and passed away
            without a struggle.
          Never were friends more humbly bowed down with  grief
            than those who stood around the bed of Buelah Hayward. Those sparkling black eyes, that
            had ever looked kindness upon those she loved, were now forever closed in death.
          Two days passed, when a very largely attended funeral was over and Buelah's body was
            placed on the train, bound for Indian Territory, where they laid it under the sod, with
            rare sweet flowers to bloom over it, and where her parents could keep them fresh and
            attend the grave with care.
          Little Lillian was given to her grandparents until Charlie saw fit to take her
            away.
          Fern went back to be a dweller with them and help take care of the babe. Otho had just
            finished his collegiate course, and was ready to enter upon his professional field of
            labor--his chosen profession being that of a lawyer.
          Charlie--loth to leave the spot that had held all most dear--stayed awhile, and then
            had to go back with no wife, no baby, no friend to cheer his home. A sad and lonely man,
            he reluctantly took up the duties of life again. He rented his houses, boarding at the
            hotel, where he dwelt, cast down in spirit as others have been, who have gone through
            the same ordeal.
          As the days passed by, Fern grew more dear to Otho, who felt timid as to love-making.
            He had been a close student for a number of years, and had not been thrown in the
            company of young ladies, except rarely, and had only known Fern by letter
            writing--having returned to  school soon after her
            liberation from the Indians. But he was determined to win her heart, notwithstanding his
            timidity. He studied her, day after day, until he was satisfied that she was just what
            he needed to make his life complete; and he said: "I must find out from her own lips, if
            she loves me."
          So, one day when she had taken baby Lillian to visit the grave of her mamma, Otho
            watched her as she wended her way to the spot, and resolved that he would take a walk
            and bring up at the same place. And, as he went along musing upon the fitness of the
            place and the occasion, for pouring out his heart to her, he concluded that a better
            place and opportunity could not offer itself, never, perhaps, again. So he hastened his
            steps, stealing softly and reverently to the side of her he loved, and kneeling by her,
            as she knelt upon the sod,--he discovered that her frame shook, and that she was
            convulsed with sobs.
          He spoke and said, "Miss Fern, you are a true and faithful friend, and if your
            affections are so lasting for the dead, may the living take courage and hope that they
            may have a place in your heart as well?"
          She seemed a little startled at his presence, but recovering herself, she replied,
            "Surely, you all, as a family, have a place there."
          Otho, a little encouraged, took one of her hands, and pressing it gently, said, "Miss
            Fern, do you know that I wish to sit enthroned in your heart? I have longed, and waited
            and watched for an opportunity to tell you  that I love
            you. And now, with due reverence to her who sleeps beneath the sod at our feet. I lay my
            heart bare to you, and know that if my sister could speak from the grave, she would
            sanction my suit, for she, too, loved you, Fern."
          At this she burst into tears, and said, "Mr. Lenhart, I know that she loved me; she
            proved as much while living; and in dying, she showed to me that even then she thought
            of me in connection with eternal life-- where we might meet never to be parted
            more."
          Otho's kind heart was deeply touched, for he was a devoted brother; and while tears
            filled his eyes, he asked her to be his wife and he would try to make her happy and be a
            protector for her through life.
          She told him she did not feel worthy; that she was a child of misfortune, and could not
            tell him anything about her parentage; that she was only a dependent upon his parents'
            hospitalities, and she felt it would be an injustice to take a step that the parents
            would not sanction.
          But he smiled at her, and told her that his mother was acquainted with his feelings
            regarding her, and that she heartily approved of his choice. He saw her countenance
            brighten, and the modest blush of a kindred spirit suffused her cheeks as she dropped
            her eyes and toyed with the little black curl that had crept from under Lillian's
            hood.
          Otho watched her with much interest, for the modest blush, the evasive way of putting
            things off, told him  as plainly as words could have
            spoken it, that she cared for him more than she felt disposed to confess, just then. But
            nothing daunted, once he had opened the subject, he continued by saying, "Fern, give me
            your answer at once, for no man ever detested suspense more than I. I have waited
            longingly, and have been desperately in earnest about this matter; and now, if you can
            make up your mind at once, or if you have thought of me in the light of one you esteemed
            more than a friend, speak and tell me."
          "Mr. Lenhart, I have admired you always, but never allowed myself to think of you other
            than as a friend; for I should have condemned myself as a transgressor upon the great
            kindness of others.
          "Oh! Miss Fern, you value yourself at too low an estimate. I have placed an inestimable
            value upon you, from the beginning; and to me you are the one above all others; and if
            you will be my wife, we will hunt up your parents, and we'll find them of the best and
            most respected, no doubt."
          She said, "Let me think of this until to-morrow. I will meet you at this place again,
            at this hour, and give you my decision."
          They walked home together, talking on different subjects. He told her that he thought
            of going down where Charlie was, for he believed the out-look there was good, and then
            Charley was lonely and would be pleased to have him with him. Besides all this, he said:
            "His influence would help me to a good law  practice, now
            that he, himself had gained a fast hold on the people,--his success as a physician
            having been simply wonderful."
          On arriving at the house, Fern sought an interview with Mrs. Lenhart. She asked her to
            come into her sleeping apartment, and when they were closeted together, she said: "Be
            seated, Mrs. Lenhart, I want to talk to you."
          She looked agitated, and tears came into her eyes when she threw her arms around the
            neck of the one who had already proven herself a mother. She began by saying: "Mrs.
            Lenhart, you have been a friend and more than that--you have been to me a mother, since
            I came to live with you; and when I consider how I was found, how you took me in, a
            poor, unfortunate prisoner, with no one to care for me and nothing to recommend myself
            to your favor, I feel humbled to the earth and would fain become your servant. Yet,
            notwithstanding all, Otho has asked me to become his wife. But I have not given him an
            answer, and would not, until I had talked with you. I feel that I owe you a life-long
            obligation, and unless you can consent to this union with all your heart, I shall talk
            to him to-morrow and tell him to go to Virginia alone, and there seek a wife who has a
            parentage and who has never been a prisoner--bought with furs and ponies--and who will
            bring to him honor instead of shame."
          Mrs. Lenhart listened, intent on hearing what view she had taken of the matter, well
            knowing that her son  had sought an interview and made
            known to her his greatest desire.
          After Fern had poured out her heart to her, in an impulsive, passionate outburst of
            mingled fear and shame at what might come, Mrs. Lenhart clasped her to her bosom, and
            said: "My poor, dear child, you look upon your misfortune--one over which you have had
            no control--to be a stigma upon you or a reproach upon your character. But let me tell
            you, Fern, we, as your deliverers, do not feel so. We esteem you as good as ourselves,
            and if Otho wishes to make you his wife, he has my full consent and highest approval of
            his choice. His father has looked upon this as a matter that would naturally be brought
            about, from the ordinary course of events, and he, too, is well pleased to see Otho so
            deeply attached to you, and we feel that if you love our son well enough to be a devoted
            wife, we ask nothing better."
          Fern laid her head on Mrs. Lenhart's shoulder and sobbed out the tears that had long
            been restrained, for she well knew that Otho had loved her long before, but she never
            dared allow herself to entertain a thought as to what it might develop into, and she
            shunned and kept out of his way at all times, feeling her inferiority so greatly--now,
            more than ever, as he had become an accomplished scholar and a professional man, with
            good prospects, and she was a mere dependent on his parents' hospitality, with no
            recommendations whatever. But now, taking courage, she thanked Mrs. Lenhart  and said it was impossible for her ever to tell how
            thankful she felt for all her love and kindness. And if she should become the wife of
            Otho, she would try to be a wife in every way worthy of him, for she not only loved, but
            reverenced him for his noble, manly nature, and for this great condescension, she would
            never be able to repay him, even with a long life of true devotion.
          It was now night, and Fern retired with a happy heart, determined to try to be all the
            family could ask or expect of her. She knew now that she had loved Otho much more than
            she had ever supposed--not having allowed her heart to go out after him. And now
            searching in it to find how much she could love him, she found that already every
            chamber of it was filled, and the door had been locked only that it might not flow
            out.
          She slept soundly, meeting Otho next morning at the breakfast table with a smile, while
            a blush mantled her cheeks which made her all the more bewitching to Otho. She met him
            at the place according to the agreement of the day before, and he read her answer in her
            face at once. Taking her hands in his, he said: "I read my fate in your eyes--it is
            'yes'"
          She could only nod assent.
          He drew her to his heart, imprinting the first kiss upon her cheek that he had ever
            given her, and said: "Let us sit down here and talk of the future--now that  it looks bright to me, I want to plan a little and want you
            to help me, dear Fern."
          They seated themselves in the rustic chairs that were placed there for the use of the
            family, who often spent hours by the grave of their loved one. Otho said: "Now, dearest,
            I will go down to where Charlie is, and prepare for us a home. Then I shall come back
            and claim you as mine forever.
          She looked a little disappointed and he noticing it, inquired as to what he might
            attribute that look--was it because they had to part so soon?
          She winced under the inquiry, and said: "I feel as though it was so sudden--this going
            away, you speak of."
          He laughed and said: "Oh, then, you will miss me a little, will you? Well, I am just
            selfish enough to feel glad that you will miss me enough to keep you thinking of me, at
            least."
          She laid her hand in his, and said: "Yes, miss you much more than you think."
          "Then, I do not only get the gentle Fern, but have her heart, as well. Happy man that I
            am."
          Her blue eyes filled with tears, and he realized what a tender, sweet girl he had found
            away out in an Indian's wigwam, far from friends, unloved and unprotected. He said:
            "Never fear, my darling, I shall not stay long. It remains for you to say what shall be
            the term of our separation. If you can be ready soon to go with me to Virginia, I will
            come at your command,  and the separation need but be of
            very short duration. Will you be ready soon, Fern?"
          "As soon as you think proper," she replied.
          "Well, then, I will not be away long, only to get a situation and things fixed in
            readiness to receive the wife of my choice, the girl of my heart."
          And arm in arm, they walked back to the house, both absorbed in the thought of the
            coming event of their lives, which was to cast the lot of both, for all time. Each was
            happy at the prospect and their vows were exchanged, as is usual in love-making.
          We will not mention the common affairs of every day life that would ordinarily follow a
            betrothed pair. Of course there were interviews sought, where they could pour out their
            hearts to one another in love and tenderness. But the time came for Otho to go, and then
            the farewell was hard to utter, and the going and the staying were both hard. The fate
            seemed a cruel one, that could separate them, if only for a few weeks.
          Soon as Otho was gone, the happy mother began preparations for the wedding, which was
            to take place one month from the day he left home.
          Of course Fern missed him; of course she felt lonely, but yet there was so much to be
            done in so short a time that she could not sit idly down and give way to thinking and
            morbidness. She had to see that her wardrobe was all in order and everything ready for
            their marriage.
          Charlie sent her one hundred dollars for the kindness 
            she had shown Buelah, during her sickness, and for the gentle care she had given little
            Lillian. This rendered her independent, as for money, and she used it judiciously,
            saying there were many things she would need when she went to housekeeping.
          Days went by on rapid wing, notwithstanding Fern's anxiety to see and be with Otho. But
            the day and the hour for their marriage arrived. He came, and with him the village
            clergyman, and at 3 P. M., on a beautiful autumn day, they were pronounced man and
            wife.
          The next day found them preparing to leave the parental roof, yet not without the
            saddest reflections, for Otho had never known anything but kindness and tender sympathy
            under that roof. Fern had been treated as tenderly as a child. She had learned to love
            them so devotedly and had now linked her future happiness with the dear home, and the
            realization of all those things brought sadness to the hearts of the happy pair, despite
            the future bliss they had pictured out for themselves.
          They left amidst an outburst of tears and made their way to the valley home they had
            chosen for themselves away among the green mountains of old Virginia.
        

        

        

           CHAPTER XXVI. JENNETTE PURSUING COOPER IN SEARCH OF GUY.
          
            
              The wild bird hath her nestlings all,
              High in the sheltering tree,
              Her mate to help her, at her call,
              But I had only thee.
            
          
          While Jennette was tired, worn out and weary, she still had hope, for there was one
            thought that buoyed her up: "I will recover my boy, and Jay Cooper
            shall pay the penalty for his crime."
          She felt in better spirits than usual, knowing that Mr. Blackburn was a very determined
            man in any matter that he might undertake. She knew, too, that he had a double motive in
            going with her in pursuit of her boy: he wished to retrieve the wrong he had done her
            and he would like to ingratiate himself in her favor again, by doing her some great
            kindness. And she said: "Surely, he could never help me in greater need than this, my
            dire extremity."
          She thanked God, in her heart, that she had so fortunately met him, when least
            expecting such a meeting. And now that they were on their way and everything  looked favorable, she began to be in better spirits and her
            manner lent a charm to the occasion.
          Blackburn looked upon her and beheld a devoted mother and a kind and gentle heart. He
            felt now, as he had never felt before, that he had acted the fool's part and lost all
            the world held for him--in that delicate little lady he had once so devotedly loved; and
            now he would have given a world like this to have gone back to the hour he had listened
            to a falsehood, and undo a wrong that he now feared could never be righted. But he kept
            up her spirits by talking and reassuring her, ever and anon, that it would be an easy
            matter to find Cooper, when once they had reached the sunny state of California; for,
            said he, "I know Cooper can never go where I cannot; and, knowing this, I expect to meet
            him face to face. If we do thus meet, it will take all the grace a minister of the
            gospel can bring to bear, to keep from taking revenge on him then and there. But,
            Jennette, we must pray that God will mark out the path for us and lead us into the right
            way, so that we may speedily recover your treasure."
          "Mr. Blackburn, I have almost lost faith in prayer."
          "What! Jennette Browning lose faith in prayer? Are you not the same
            little lady that used to make all the gnarled and crooked places in the Bible straight,
            and tell us that the promises were sure?"
          "Yes, Mr. Blackburn, I am she. But I have asked so many things since that, which have
            not been granted, that I have concluded to believe God is a respecter of  persons, or else he has grown deaf to the cries of the
            distressed. I feel sometimes that I have wearied heaven with my petitions, and the
            listening or ministering ones are tired of my prayers."
          "Oh, Jennette!" said Mr. Blackburn, while the tears welled up from a soul of pity, "I
            can not bear to hear you talk like this, when I have to thank you for so much
            information on the Bible. You have made many a dark passage to shine out like a star to
            me, and they have helped to lighten my pathway all along since then. And now, my little
            girl," said he, as he tenderly took her hand, and felt still more sensibly how much she
            had suffered, as he held the feverish little fingers, "I feel that we are nearing the
            dear one we are looking for, and you must keep your faith until we find him, for God
            never forsakes the truly faithful, though we sometimes become impatient at delays which
            seem to us unnecessary; but, without these trials to test our faith, we would soon lose
            sight of God."
          The act so simple, and words so gentle, had their effect upon her, and she burst into a
            flood of tears.
          He drew her to him, and with the tenderest and most sympathetic words he could bring to
            bear, he soothed her into quietness.
          Jennette, having given vent to tears long pent up, felt relieved, and began by saying,
            "Mr. Blackburn, when I look back and see what I have endured and how much faith and love
            for God I once had, I tremble to know that I am not the same woman. I never could  have believed that I would have given up my faith and let
            go my hold on heaven; but alas! I am almost a wreck spiritually.
          "Jennette, I am both astonished and grieved, to know you occupy such dangerous ground.
            Am I in any way to blame for this? Did my actions toward you in the past, cause you to
            feel like this? Did you lose confidence in God when you lost confidence in me?"
          "Oh, no!" she replied, determined that she would not let him know that his actions had
            taken such deep hold on her as that. "I was prepared for anything, having been so
            terribly deceived in one man. You know I told you it would be almost a matter of
            impossibility for me to have confidence in another; so you see your actions in the
            matter neither astonished nor frustrated me much. Since then, however, I have little or
            no confidence in any one, and looking on the world from this stand-point, I feel that
            life is hardly worth living. But now I have been so wrought up about my boy, that I feel
            as if I could be perfectly happy, could I but find him once more--and his father too--to
            find and bring him to justice, would be the greatest pleasure of my
            life. I could then take my boy and go out west among the Indians. I would rather face a
            savage tribe of wild Indians, than be subject to Cooper's power longer; for if he is not
            put under lock and key, he will yet do me some personal injury. Heaven only knows how
            much I long to see him  confined in a prisoner's
            cell--just where he should have been yeais ago."
          "And where he shall be, if there is any justice in law," replied Mr. Blackburn.
          They were carried over many a weary mile on the west bound train; but for Jennette, it
            ran all too slowly. Night came on, and Mr. Blackburn had her go to her sleeping car, and
            he told her while she slept, he would watch and be sure that Cooper did not get on board
            the train at some small station; for, said he, " It might be possible that he was
            lurking around, and thinking of taking a night train at some out of the way place, not
            yet having reached California. I think I should know him in whatever disguise he might
            appear."
          She let him have his way, only too glad to be relieved from the care of watching, night
            and day, as she had been doing in the past few weeks.
          He said, although detectives thought he had reached California before this, he was
            determined to be on the alert, and if any possible mistake had been made, he would not
            be found sleeping, and let him give them the slip. So, while Jennette slept more soundly
            than she had for many nights, Blackburn kept more widely awake than he ever had before
            at any time, or on any occasion. He could not have slept had he been on a downy bed in
            his own mother's house, for, having met the object of his great love just when she
            needed him more than she had ever needed a friend before in her life, and having
            discovered in her the same sweet traits  of character,
            felt that the same spell-bound him, and held him in its subtle coils, and he said to
            himself, "I once extricated myself from this, but now I can see no way out, and would
            not wish to, if I could see any hope. But I do not believe Jennette will ever take me
            into her affections again, she feels too deeply my cruelty in listening to those wicked
            men--if men they should be called. Well," he said, "I am now reaping my just retribution
            for the wrong I did her. But, bless my little girl, I will do all I can for her, in this
            her heart trial, and if kindness to her, and success should crown my undertaking,
            perhaps she may forgive the past, imputing it to the weakness of humanity--and feel that
            to forgive is indeed divine."
          The night was a long one to Blackburn, nothing transpiring to break the monotony of the
            restless train, which stopped only at each station when by a compelling power it was
            brought to a halt, then by giving it full vent, it would dart off through the darkness
            as if speed lent wings and demons were in pursuit.
          Mothers who read this touching story, can you bring yourself to imagine Jennette's
            feelings on awakening, after having dreamed of a beautiful prairie home, with her
            golden-haired little boy on her knee and Mrs. Allen at her side, and nothing to mar her
            happiness? Think of the sad awakening, after such a blissful dream--to behold the vacant
            pillow and feel the terrible heart throbbing as memory began to bring vividly before her
            the happy hours in which her spirit  revelled in the
            smiles of her beautiful boy, and now to realize the awful fact that he had passsed
            beyond her reach, possibly forever, and she, perhaps, would never know his fate.
          She gasped for breath at the thought, for it had stifled her breathing. And she must
            get up now and go through another day, with nothing to cheer her and the hard visages of
            strangers staring at her and no one to sympathize with her except Mr. Blackburn; she
            said to herself: "Perhaps he may desert me in the hour of my greatest extremity. I have
            at least lost entire confidence in him, and cannot, by any possible means, ever again
            have confidence enough in him to lean with expectation upon him for help, should my
            reputation be at stake. Although a fearless, thorough-going man, yet his one weakness
            is, 'What will people say if I, a minister of the gospel, should endeavor to stand by
            this lone, friendless girl, should the world turn its back upon her?'"
          But she was only measuring his principles by one hasty act of the past, which had
            indeed taught him a great lesson and fortified him against the workings of satan in the
            future.
          She met him in the ladies' car, with swollen eyes, for she had been crying until,
            exhausting the fountain of tears, she had bathed her face and was going out to meet him,
            where he was keeping vigilant watch and was now waiting restlessly to see her who, to
            him, was the embodiment of all that was noble and good.


          


          "Good morning, Jennette, how did you rest?" he inquired, searching her face and
            discerning the traces of tears that had so recently fallen.
          "Good morning," she said with trembling lip: "You have made no discoveries during the
            night, I presume?"
          "No, Jennette, I have not seen or heard anything to excite my suspicions or curiosity.
            But why do you look so despondent this morning? Did you have unpleasant dreams?"
          "No," she replied, "but on the contrary, I had such a sweet dream that it made my
            awakening so terrible."
          "Oh, well, perhaps you will yet realize the fullness of your dream in the finding of
            your boy."
          At this she burst out afresh and wept bitter, burning tears for some time, while
            Blackburn sat silently meditating upon what the outcome would be, should their efforts
            prove fruitless. He said to himself: "A wrecked mind would be the fate of the dear
            little lady, for whom I fain would lay down my life." But from his heart went up a
            silent prayer to Him, who answereth petitions and careth for all, that Jennette might
            find the object of her search and that she might retain her mind and give him the
            remnants of her broken heart. Was that prayer answered? We shall see.
          The train rushed on until great chasms were to be crossed. Then, with a snail's speed,
            it crept over the dark abyss, while she held her breath and said to her companion: "Oh,
            did my little boy pass over this horrible place, and no one to quiet his fears? I feel
               that his little heart turned sick at beholding
            this."
          Mr. Blackburn assured her that, be that as it might, it was evident he had passed
            safely over, for no accident had recently occurred.
          He took her trembling hands between his own, and said: "Little girl, look ahead; do not
            look out of the car window; you are nervous, and it only serves to bring up in your mind
            dangers that have been passed over by thousands of others and that we, too, shall soon
            have passed."
          She leaned her head on the seat before her and shut her eyes, that she might not look
            upon a scene that was in itself sublimely awful--sublime, as to nature and the great
            ingenuity of man, in bridging such a chasm. And when she again looked up, the train
            seemed to be running along on the side of a mountain, with nothing to be seen but the
            vast outlines of a mountain range, and a horrible distance below, where to be thrown off
            the track, meant death and destruction in one common mingled mass.
          This, too, caused her to turn sick and faint, but her greatest horror was that Guy had
            passed over those dangers before her, and if he had cried, there had been none to
            comfort him. For, since the lady had told her the story of his father's cruelty, she
            could only think of him as a poor little abused prisoner fluttering to be free. She
            fancied, sometimes, she could see him in some horrible place, his little arms reaching
            out for her, crying piteously: "Mamma! Mamma!" But at  such times arousing herself to find it a phantom, she would
            be doubly resolved to find him and bring his demon father to justice, and she would try
            to bear up and be strong enough to endure all until it was done.
          The days passed at last, and California, with its many charms of flowers and fruits,
            beautiful birds and gentle sunshine, was reached. It was with wildly palpitating heart
            that Jennette first stepped upon its soil. She said to Mr. Blackburn: "Oh, do I really
            breathe the same air that my boy is now breathing? And shall I find him? I feel myself
            growing blind at the thought."
          He looked in her face and saw that she was really going to faint. He caught her and
            seated her on a seat that had been placed in the shadow of the depot for weary
            travellers, and turning to a fountain that was belching forth its cool waters, he
            procured a draught for the weary, worn out girl, and said to himself: "How I wish this
            would prove to her a well of water that would bring to her the joy she seeks."
           After she drank and felt refreshed, they moved on, ordering their baggage sent to a
            private hotel, where they were soon landed.
          He told the landlady to get some dainty food of some kind, quickly, for the young lady,
            and then show her to her room, that she might rest; for, he said she was worn out with
            traveling and sick from care and recent trouble.
          The kind woman felt a sympathy for the poor young  lady,
            who looked so wretched, and cheerfully did his bidding.
          She ate a few morsels and crept off to bed, where she had a frightful dream, awaking
            with the perspiration standing in great drops upon her forehead. It was now dark, and
            she could not tell how long she had slept, where she was or what her business was there.
            But soon arousing herself to perfect consciousness, she remembered all. Then the horrid
            vision she had had in her sleep rose up before her, and she felt afraid of the dark
            room. So she began looking and feeling about for matches, that she might make a light,
            when all at once, she felt sure she heard Guy call out her name. Mamma!
              Mamma! seemed to proceed out of the darkness from some source--she knew not where
            or whence it came. But listening again and pressing her feverish cheek against the
            window pane and peering into the darkness, she again heard a little voice call out:
            "Mamma, come to me!"
          She was wild with excitement, and rapping on the door of her room, she called aloud for
            help.
          A servant answered the call, and she demanded a light, In a short time, the landlady
            made her appearance with a lamp in her hand, looking frightened, and made an excuse for
            not having lit the gas in her room. She said she called at her door some time before,
            but found it locked and no one answered her call, and she supposed her to be sleeping
            and thought she would not trouble her.


          

          Jennette was trembling from head to foot, and the lady asked her if she felt worse.
          She replied that she was feeling dreadfully. She said she would like so see the
            gentleman that brought her there, in the parlor a few minutes, if it was not a late
            hour.
          The lady told her she could do so, that it was only about 8 o'clock, and he was in the
            office.
          So Jennette followed, as the landlady led the way, having sent a colored boy to tell
            the gentleman that the young lady wanted to see him in the parlor.
          He soon made his appearance, feeling alarmed on seeing Jennette's agitation. "What is
            it, Jennette?" he said, kindly.
          "Oh, Mr. Blackburn," she began, "I heard Guy calling me, from my room, a minute or two
            ago. I heard his little voice just as plainly as I see you."
          He was astonished and asked her if she was sure she was fully awake.
          She said: "Yes, Mr. Blackburn, I am sure, for I was some time arousing myself from the
            deep sleep into which I had fallen, but finally awakened and was just thinking how I
            could find a light and wondering if I should have to stay in that dark room all night,
            when I heard Guy call: "Mamma! mamma!" Then going to the window and looking out into the
            darkness, I heard distinctly his voice calling me to 'come here.' Now, I felt that I
            must see you and see what was to be done. I did not say anything about it to the
            landlady, for  fear if I told her, some of the detectives'
            plans might be thwarted, and I thought I would keep still until I had consulted
            you."
          "You are right, Jennette, we had better wait until we see your detective and learn his
            plans. Go back to your room, and I will go out and play the detective and keep on the
            alert for a few hours, and if I learn anything of importance, I will let you know
            immediately."
          She reluctantly went back to her room, and seating herself by the window, looked out
            upon the street lamps below, wondering if ever a mother's heart did suffer as hers. All
            night long, she sat by her window, but no tidings of her lost loved one came. Morning
            dawned, finding her completely worn out, from anxiety and watching. And when she had
            made her morning toilet and descended to the parlor, she met Mr. Blackburn, who told her
            he had some favorable news.
          She was so eager to hear, that it was pitiful to see her pleading eyes lifted to him in
            such a simple, childlike way.
          He told her, in as few words as possible, that an old miner had told him, the night
            before, that he knew of several families that lived among the mines and told him of one
            man that kept a little girl and lived in a cave, with no one to care for her. He seemed
            to be rather unkind to her, and the little thing often cries and appears lonely.
          Jennette clapped her hands with joy, and said, "Oh, Mr. Blackburn, take me there
            to-day, will you? take  me there!" and she wrung her hands
            with excitement.
          He told her he would go and reconnoiter, and first try to find her detective over in
            the city of San Francisco. He said, "We are in the suburbs of that city now, but I want
            to find him, and then we can tell what is best to do without causing any excitement or
            creating any suspicions."
          And when he had gone to the city with no farther explanations, she walked the floor,
            wrung her hands, and wailed piteously for an hour, then going out, she bathed her face
            and concluded to walk out in the open air and see if she could not gain strength and
            feel refreshed. She wandered on until she came to the fountain where Blackburn had got
            the water for her on their first arrival in the place.
          She caught the cool sprays as they fell from the fountain, and bathed her throbbing
            brow until she felt calm. Then she sat down to try to think composedly, what she should
            do and where she should go, to gain any information concerning her boy.
          While she was thus sitting, there was an old man driving a cart, came to the fountain
            to get water. He was about fifty years of age, with hard, rough visage, and looked as if
            he had never smiled in his life; but upon looking at Jennette, his hard look gave way,
            and lifting his old battered and worn hat, he bowed gracefully as a knight and said,
            "Young lady, you seem to be sad, if one can judge from the countenance--loss of friends,
            or something, eh?"


          

          "Yes, I have lost a child" she replied, while the tears gushed forth afresh.
          "Poor child," said the rough looking old man, "for you seem but a child yourself."
          She was strangely drawn to the tenderly spoken man, and walking up to him said: "Do you
            live near here?"
          "Oh, no, dear," he said, kindly, "I am a miner, and live away up in the mining region;
            just came to the city to-day for a new shovel and pick."
          "When do you go back, and how far is it?"
          "Oh, I am on my way now, and it will take me till high noon to reach there."
          "I had almost a notion to ask you if I could go along with you, I would like to go and
            see the miners."
          "Why, honey, you could not go alone; there are few women there, and they are coarse and
            ugly--not like your delicate self."
          "Well, have you any new miners just come among you?"
          "Oh, yes! we have several."
          "I have some friends that have just got here lately-- a gentleman with a little
            girl,--do you know any one like that?"
          "Yes, I remember having seen a man, with a little girl now and then with him, but he
            does not live close to where he works. He lives in a cave away up the mountain, and
            leaves the little girl with her mother, I reckon."
          "Well," said Jennette, "don't say anything to him  about
            anyone inquiring after him, I want to surprise him."
          She was now trembling so violently that she bade him good morning, and walked back to
            her boarding house, to find Mr. Blackburn and her detective awaiting her, much concerned
            at her absence.
          The detective had many plans on foot, but to Jennette there was but one way. She knew
            the little girl the old man had spoken of, was her dear little Guy-- and not a little
            girl, as represented. And she said: "Go at once! and I must go too!" and, woman like,
            she had her way.
          They started at ten o'clock for the mines. Jennette felt that she could go directly to
            the cave which she had pictured in her mind so vividly, and would have done so at once,
            had she been alone and not acting upon the advice of a detective.
          Mr. Blackburn and the detective searched the mines, and sought out caves, but gave it
            up, as no place for Cooper. Yet, Jennette was not convinced.
        


        

        


           CHAPTER XXVII. THE DOUBLE SURPRISE.
          
            
              Ah, precious hour in which we find
              That we have loved and lost;
              It brings new joys untold to us,
              No matter what it's cost.
            
          

          As Harry Fleming stood on the old mill porch, one morning, taking a view of the
            surrounding country, and drinking in a sweet, fresh draught of the pure air, he was
            suddenly brought face to face with a man whom, though time had wrought in him a
            wonderful change, yet he recognized as an old friend, a playmate of other days; and
            although he did not want to make himself suddenly known, he could hardly suppress a cry
            of joy. He wanted, on first impulse, to throw himself on his neck and weep as Joseph did
            upon the neck of Benjamin, but he suppressed the feeling and said, "Do you want to
            exchange your grain, sir?" He sometimes attended to other business about the mill in the
            absence of his employer.
          The fellow looked at him a little curiously and said, "No one here but yourself?"


          

          Harry replied by saying, "No sir, but I am looking for Mr. --- every moment."
          "Well, then, let me say hurriedly, Harry Fleming, I know you!"
          The two men shook hands, and in Harry's eyes there shone tears of gladness. He fairly
            wrung the hand of his friend and said, "How did you know me, and why did you feel that
            you must not recognize me as Harry Fleming?"
          "Because, old boy, I know your history, and felt sure at first sight, that you were
            here, not to be known, but for a purpose."
          "Well, Roland, old boy, I am; and now where do you live? that I may come and have a
            private talk with you."
          "I live on the fork of this little creek, just a mile west of here; and you come over
            next Sunday and I will help you all I can."
          Harry shook his hand warmly again, and said: "I will be there, you may depend upon
            it."
          Just then the miller came in, and nothing more was said.
          Roland Brandon,--for that was his name-was the gentleman that Harry and Anna had taken
            into their confidence, when they stole away to be married. And they had often spent
            hours together at his house, and he was ever their friend. But, being a poor man, of
            course his influence was limited and it was useless for a poor man to raise his voice
            against Anna's father.  Therefore, he had been a faithful
            observer, but a silent one, in all these years that were past.
          This was Thursday, and the remaining days of the week appeared like weeks, rather than
            days, to Harry Fleming. When Sunday morning came, he made a hasty toilet and started for
            Roland's house, which he reached in a short time. He found it to be a neat cabin, and
            his wife, though the same, was much changed--very much more than Roland--yet the same
            clever old lady that she was when a young lady.
          Roland began by saying: "Well, Harry, old friend, I know you feel interested in hearing
            what became of your wife and baby, and the old folks, as well."
          "Yes, but first of all, tell me of Anna," he said, with much agitation.
          "She is living, I think, the wife of another man away up in Indiana."
          Harry bit his lips, while tears glistened in his eyes. "There was a child; tell me of
            it."
          "Well, first let me begin at the beginning. You remember when you were arrested?"
          "Yes; I think I shall hardly live to forget that."
          "Well, on that afternoon, before you were taken, her father came to her and demanded a
            marriage between her and Mr. Allen, of New Orleans, and she refused, on the ground that
            she was a lawfully wedded wife. He grew furious, raved and swore she should never see
            you again. And when she told him she would soon be a mother and you were the lawful
            father, he shut her up  until the child was born, then
            gave it to a family going to Texas, by the name of Shaw. They took it when it was six
            weeks old and he gave them a thousand dollars for its education. And they were never to
            bring it back to trouble him. This almost killed Anna. But he made her throw off the
            shadow that darkened her life and marry this rich old miser of New Orleans, and sent
            them north where they remain to this day, as far as I know."
          Mr. Fleming was walking the floor by this time, crying like a child, but when Roland
            stopped, he said: "Go on, Roland, I want to know where the old beast has gone. Does he,
            or those villains that swore to his lies and perjured their souls, still live? "
          "No, both of those fellows were killed in the rebel army, and the old man died, when he
            found his slaves were all gone and his property confiscated. He knew he was a ruined
            man, and it killed him."
          "Well," said Harry, "Providence did a thing I should gladly have done, had I found them
            living. But I am glad my hands are not stained with their villainous blood, and it is
            well for me. Well, Roland, I have found my daughter."
          Roland sprang to his feet, caught his hand and said: "Where? when? and how? Let me
            congratulate you!"
          "Well, you see, I am a little lame. When I first came out of prison, I would not go at
            the trade I had learned--making brushes--so I sought all kinds of work, did anything and
            everything to make a living,  until I found I was quite
            handy in the use of tools. So I began to pick up odd jobs at carpentering, and in this
            way I did pretty well until I happened to strike a job in a little village, not one
            hundred miles from this place, and the foreman sent me to the top of the building one
            day, I lost my hold, my feet having slipped from under me, and I fell to the ground. I
            was taken up with a broken arm and a dislocated hip, with but a few dollars in my
            pocket. But the gentleman whom the building was for was a doctor, and a good man. He
            took me to his house and cared for me until I was well. He has a weakly wife, but a
            better woman I never wish to see. She keeps a young lady to help her, that they had
            taken from the Indians. She told me her story herself, and I believed then and there
            that she was my child--not knowing what disposition had been made of the babe. Your
            story corroborates hers, and now I know she is my own sweet daughter, and she is like
            her mother--oh, so much. She told me she was taken by a family by the name of Shaw to
            Texas, at the age of six weeks. She said her foster parents were very kind to her and
            told her that her parents lived somewhere in Virginia, and that her mother was forced to
            give her away at that tender age, for some cause. But they had taught her that her
            mother was a lady--for which I am very thankful. When she was a girl in her teens, they
            had started back to this state, when they were assailed by a band of Indians and her
            foster parents were killed. She was  taken prisoner and
            carried to Indian Territory. Here the doctor and his wife, with whom I stayed when I was
            hurt, and their friends, bought her of the chief, and she is now with them, or was when
            I left. I shall now go back to her, and if she is willing to hear my story and accept me
            as her father, I think we can find her mother."
          "Well, Harry, that is indeed glorious news. But dare you go to Anna, who has now been
            the wife of another so long that she, perhaps, may not care to find her child or the
            husband whom she may believe to be a thief."
          Harry sank down, too much overcome to stand. The joy in finding his daughter had caused
            him to forget the great abyss that was between him and his Anna-- the mother of his
            child.
          After some time, he looked up calmly and said: "Well, at any rate, I will give up my
            position as bookkeeper at the mill and start to-morrow morning and go to my daughter, my
            sweet little Fern."
           He talked all day to Roland and went home in the evening, impatient for morning to
            come.
          The next morning, to the great surprise and disappointment of his employer, he resigned
            his position and started on his journey, arriving one evening just at dusk--to find
            Charlie and Fern with a strange gentleman whom she introduced as her husband, but Buelah
            was not there. They were all glad to see him, but sad to tell him of her death, and he,
            too, felt deeply  the loss, for her presence was the light
            of the home. When seated around the fireside that night, he asked Fern if she would like
            to see her father.
          She said: "Ever so much, but I have given up ever seeing or knowing anything more about
            him than I do now."
          "Why do you give it up?" said he.
          "Because," she replied, "I have no clue, not knowing his name, I do not know how to
            begin to unravel the mystery."
          "Would you love him if he should come to you poor and old--like myself?"
          "I should not care how he came; if I knew it was my father, I should love him."
          His heart was beating so wildly now that he could not say any more for a short time,
            when he again spoke he said: "I can tell you his name, Fern."
          She was startled and said: "Is it possible? Well, tell me quick, then, Mr. Clem." That
            was the name by which she had known him, when he was with them.
          "Harry Fleming, is his name."
          "Oh, Mr. Clem," said she, with agitated look, do tell me more, tell me all, and how you
            came in possession of this fact."
          "Well, Fern," said he, getting up and walking toward her, as she sat knitting some
            edging, by the light of the chandelier.
          She had laid down her work and now rose up and said: "Mr. Clem, you look troubled. What
            is it, and  why is it you do not tell me at once that
            which I most wish to hear--the secret of my parentage?"
          "Just what I am going to tell you," said he, taking her hands in his own, "are you
            prepared for whatever may come?"
          "I believe I am, Mr. Clem, for I have imagined everything possible--so the reality
            cannot be worse."
          "Well, then, let me sit by you, right under this light, that I may see just how
            strangely it may affect you. First, let me give you a brief history of my own life, as I
            want to prepare the way for what is to come. You know I have never told you anything
            about my past life. Turning to Charlie, he said: "You know I told you once, I did not
            wish to speak of it. But I have made some wonderful discoveries since I left.
          He now began and spoke of himself as having been a young lawyer and as having loved a
            young lady--their clandestine marriage, her father's anger, and how he had been
            sentenced, from false accusations, to prison for twenty years, and all to get him out of
            the way, that his wife should become the wife of another man. He told of the birth of
            their little girl, and how she had been roughly taken from her mother and sent to Texas,
            with kind but poor people, and how those people had been killed by Indians, and that the
            child, a girl in her teens, had been taken prisoner and afterward rescued by Charlie
            Hayward and his friends.
          Fern listened as one paralyzed--then, giving one hysterical scream, she threw her arms
            around his neck,  and, between tears and sobs, she
            murmured: "My father, my father, and can it be? Is it really true?"
          Harry Fleming was crying now like a child. But, drawing her to his breast, he said;
            "Yes, I am Harry Fleming, your father."
          "But where is my mother?" she cried.
          He then had to tell her the sad story of her whom he said must have suffered all these
            years, away up in Indiana. "She was so tender, so gentle, I know when she lost both you
            and myself, she was wretched, indeed. But there was no use of trying to resist the will
            of such a man as her father."
          By this time, Charlie and Otho were wildly excited, and said; "Who could have believed
            such a report as this? But coming from your lips, Mr. Fleming, we cannot doubt it, and
            we wish to congratulate Fern on her new-found treasure--she has always thought so much
            of you, it will be pleasant to receive you as her father."
          Fern smiled through her tears and said: "Father! Oh, how sweet that
            sounds, and how nice the name of Fleming. I know now, what I never knew before, my own
            name. But I was married in the name of Shaw" --and she looked up, a little perplexed, at
            her noble husband, who, seeing she was in trouble about it, said: "Never mind, dear,
            that will stand all right; you knew no other name, and you are my lawful wife, and I am
            very glad you have found your father." Extending his  hand
            to him, he said: "Father Fleming, make our house your future home, and welcome."
          Mr. Fleming was so overcome by the kind expression that he could only press his hand
            and huskily whisper, "Thanks."
          They all talked the matter over in every light possible, before retiring, and then Mr.
            Fleming and daughter both went to rest with lighter hearts than they had had in years;
            and their first thought in the morning was, "I have found my daughter," and "I have
            found my father." It was bliss to the hearts of both, for each had hungered for the
            other's love.
          As they were left alone during the day, while Charlie and Otho were each at their
            offices, they talked over many plans as to how they might get to see the mother of Fern
            and the wife of Mr. Fleming.
          Fern said: "If she lives in Indiana and they could gain any knowledge as to her
            whereabouts, her father should go to see her and, if possible, bring her to live with
            them, too. But her father persisted in thinking it a hazardous undertaking, unless he
            knew her husband to be dead.
          They grew nearer and dearer to each other day by day, as they conversed so much on
            different subjects-- the all important one being, "Shall we find her whom our souls
            yearn for?"
          As their anxiety increased, they began to plan ways and means to accomplish their
            object. They watched the newspapers and took an Indianapolis paper, to see  if by watching they could find any trace of the man Allen
            who took Anna to that state. They felt that even a straw to guide them was better than
            nothing.
          It happened one evening, as Charlie came in, tired, that he threw himself upon a sofa
            and picked up the paper that the newsboy had just thrown in the door, and upon unfolding
            it, his eyes fell on these words in large letters: "A THOUSAND DOLLARS REWARD FOR A
            STOLEN CHILD." Then followed a brief description of Jennette Browning, and how she had
            been foully wronged by Cooper and of the kidnapping of the child.
          Charlie sprang to his feet and exclaimed: "Great heavens, what is this? Can it be
            true?"
          His deathly pallor and terrible agitation excited Fern and her father, who began making
            rapid inquiries as to the cause of his excited manner.
          Charlie looked at them a moment as one in a dream. He was going back to the night he
            had bid poor little Jennette good-bye for the last time. He felt that he could see her
            standing there in the moonlight, looking so earnest and true at him, telling him she
            "would carry out her father's will if sorrow killed her in a fortnight." "Ah," he said
            at last, still looking at the advertisement and reward offered for her child, "What is
            this that villainous Cooper has done? Did he dare do such a thing, and
            what has that poor little heart suffered all these years?"
          He clenched his fists and set his teeth and looked so angered that Fern shrank back and
            looked at him  in utter astonishment. She had never seen
            him look like that before. Bat thinking for a moment where he was and who was listening,
            he said at last: "I had forgotten that you were present or that you did not understand
            and comprehend all that I see in this advertisement; but, as I remember now, you know
            nothing of my past life and early love. I will give you a synopsis of it and then
            explain what I see here."
          Otho, who at that moment came in, read something in Charlie's face he had never seen
            there before--anger and sorrow commingled. He stopped short to hear what he had to tell,
            for he had heard him say as he came in, that he would tell something they did not
            know.
          Charlie motioned him to a chair, while he proceeded to tell them all, beginning with
            the story of the boat ride and of his rescuing Jennette from the water, then carefully
            noting every particular point that had caused him so many heart aches and finishing up
            with telling them how he came to be a boarder at Dr. Lenhart's in their western
            home.
          Otho, thinking of his tender-hearted, loving sister, said: "Did Buelah ever know
            anything of this?"
          "She did, most assuredly, for I told her all, in one of our horseback rides over the
            prairie, before I asked her to become my wife. She sympathized with me very tenderly,
            and had it not been that she came into my way just at that time, I don't know where I
            would have been to-day." And a tear shone in his eye, as he spoke,  saying, very tenderly and reverently, "Poor little angel Buelah."
          Otho was deeply touched at this narration of the sadness of Charlie's past life, and
            said: "I remember you once told me something of your sad life, but I was young, and of
            course never gave you much sympathy. But now I do feel that you have had your share of
            trouble, and if anything I can do will help to alleviate it, it shall be freely
            done."
          "Thank you, Otho," said he kindly: "I believe all that; but just now, I am at a loss
            what to do. I should love, best of all things in the world, to join in the search for
            Jennette's boy, but I cannot neglect my patients to go out after a phantom. I feel that
            it would be useless for me to try it, when detectives are on the track. But if Cooper
            could only be turned over to me, when captured, I would deal out justice unmingled with
            mercy."
          That night, as he lay in his bed, he counted the stars and repeated all the rhymes he
            had learned from childhood, but not one moment's sleep came to his eyes.
        




        

        

           CHAPTER XXVIII GUY'S RESCUE.
          
            
              Let others search in mines of gold,
              For costly gems, and rare,
              But the mother heart will ever turn,
              With constancy and care,
              To the lonely spot that holds her child,
              Her instinct tells her where.
            
          

          The detective who had kept track of Cooper for some time had finally lost all trace of
            him and could not believe Jennette's story, that she had heard directly from him. He
            said it was all bosh, for he had been up in that part of the mining region himself and
            knew there were no such parties there.
          Jennette could not be persuaded to give up the project. She said: "Let us go again; let
            me see for myself and I shall be content to give it up."
          The detective said there was a better prospect for a man's hiding himself in quite an
            opposite direction from that, in an old mining district, where but few if any new hands
            had been found in years.
          So, after reasoning and giving many ideas of how he had laid his plans, she at last
            agreed that he and Blackburn  might go in that direction,
            while she would take care of herself.
          This being just what the self-willed and self-conceited detective wanted, he hastened
            away in company with Blackburn, leaving the heart-broken young mother to get through the
            day as best she could. Both gentlemen thought the voice Jennette had heard the previous
            evening was that of some neighboring child, and that she was wrought up to such a high
            state of excitement that she fancied it was her own boy's cries.
          Although Jennette gave up the thought of the two men accompanying her, she nevertheless
            determined to go to that place that very day, if there could be any possible way
            provided. So, as soon as they were fairly gone, she made inquiry as to where she could
            find a conveyance and driver to go to the mining region. A servant was dispatched for a
            livery, and in a short time she was being driven in that direction at full speed, by a
            colored man, who knew every inch of ground from San Francisco to the mines.
          She asked him if there was another road, leading to the mines, that was less travelled
            than the one in front of them.
          "Oh, yes, miss," he said: "I can take you different routes, and you can go any way you
            please."
          She asked him if he knew where there was a cave, in or near the mines.
          "Oh, yes, missus, I do, and that's on the oldest road 
            that goes there. The cave is said to be haunted, and no one wishes to pass it."
          "Are you afraid?" she asked, in her child-like manner.
          And he, true to his race, declared he did not care to go that way, if she would accept
            some other route.
          She laughed at him, and said: "Why, I do not know what fear is. I should never run from
            a phantom if realities do not scare me."
          He looked at her and said: "Why, you a are little critter, miss, to be so brave."
          "Well let me protect you then, and no harm will come to you, and we will go the road
            you speak of," she said, with a smile, wondering to herself how a large,
            broad-shouldered man, like her driver, could fear anything-- much less, an imaginary
            object, a phantom that no one had ever seen, but only heard of. "For my part," she said
            to herself, "I have no fears of the living or the dead, until I have found my boy."
          She urged the driver on at full speed, her heart beating wildly at the thought, for she
            felt that as she neared the mines, she was coming closer and closer to her child. She
            knew, from her experience, that nothing ever happened without her being warned of it in
            some way. And she said: "Now, I heard him call, "Mamma, mamma, come to me!" and I shall
            go, for I feel that I shall find him."
          So, by taking the old, unfrequented road, they passed rapidly along, unnoticed.


          



          It was now noon, and Jennette was in a feverish state of excitement, not having thought
            of dinner. Her hearty driver, however, had not forgotten, on starting, to slip a lunch
            of sandwitches and a dozen oranges under the seat of the carriage, and as he made
            mention of hunger, she said: "I had not thought of anything to eat, I am so anxious to
            reach the mines."
          He said: "What is it that takes you away out in this lonely place, Miss?" offering her
            some of his dinner.
          "Oh, you don't know, do you? Well, I have a child that was taken from me and carried to
            this country. I think I shall find him near, or in, the cave you spoke of."
           He shuddered at the idea.
          She noticed him start, and said: "No, thank you, I don't want any dinner, but will take
            one of those oranges for my baby, when we find him.
          He looked at her, and she fancied his black skin turned a shade lighter at her words.
            She believed he fancied he would have to go in the dreaded cave, and said, to relieve
            his mind: "You need not explore the cave with me. Just hold the horses while I go in,
            and I shall return in safety."
          He drove on in silence for about an hour, when he halted and said: "Miss, we are
            nearing the cave, but I have hearn awful things about this place."
          She said: "Drive on; I shall guard you, and no danger shall befall us. Move right on, I
            am growing short of breath, in my great anxiety to get there."


          

          He drew rein at the mouth of the cave; all was silent, no sign of life within, but she
            said: "Let me get out right here. And now, let what will come, promise me that you will
            not drive off and leave me."
          Taking her purse from her pocket, she showed him a gold coin, and said: "This shall be
            yours, all of it, if you will serve me faithfully."
          He showed his full set of ivory and clutched the lines with renewed energy, feeling,
            through his great fear, that "nothing ventured, nothing gained," was an old maxim, but
            he realized now, more than ever before, it must surely be a true one, and he promised to
            await her return; but, in his heart, he did not believe he would ever see her again.
          Nothing daunted, she drew her weary little body up to its full height and swept into
            the mammoth cave before her, believing the while that she was going to certain victory.
            She moved on and on, making several turns, but marking well each turn she made, that she
            might have no difficulty in finding her way back.
          At last she saw a light before her; it was either a lamp or the light from some miner's
            torch. Let it be what it might, she was determined to know from whence it came and what
            it was there for. She reached it at last--and now, mothers, look in with us upon the
            scene and imagine the feelings, if you can, of that young, tender-hearted mother. There,
            on a little bed of leaves and a piece of carpet, lay her idol, her all--little Guy, fast
            asleep, with a rope around his ankle and the other end 
            tied to a staple that was driven into the earthen floor. Her heart beat violently and
            she pressed both hands upon it to still its throbbings, for she bethought herself in an
            instant and had gone in there prepared to keep silent and cool-headed. She murmured to
            herself: "Thank God."
          "Oh, heavens," she exclaimed, as she knelt beside the sleeping child and saw how
            emaciated he looked.
          He sighed and turning over, he murmured: "Mamma, come to me."
          "Oh, the tears, the sobs that welled up from the depths of her soul. But fearing Cooper
            might be lurking in some near passway, as there were many apartments in that natural
            tunnel, she looked to see how she was going to unloose him. She could not untie him, she
            could not pull up the staple, so she began to bite and gnaw the rope with her teeth.
          The little fellow had sank down there from sheer exhaustion and slept so soundly, he
            did not know his best earthly friend and deliverer had come.
          She pulled and bit and picked frantically at the rope until she was almost wild. Then
            she thought perhaps there might be a knife somewhere about, and she began to look around
            and found a very sharp, ugly-looking one on an old table in the corner of the room. She
            caught it up, cut what threads yet remained that she had not bitten off, and caught her
            child to her bosom.
          He opened his eyes, while she was running with him  in
            her arms, and screamed: "Mamma, mamma, my dear, good mamma, how did you get me
            loose?"
          She pressed him to her heart and said: "Be still, dear, mamma will tell you all soon;
            but we must get out of this place now."
          He shuddered, and throwing both arms around her neck, he almost suffocated her. But she
            flew, rather than walked, until she made her appearance at the mouth of the cave, to
            find her frightened, restless driver still waiting for her. He looked the picture of
            fright when she emerged from the cave, looking so tired out with such a large child in
            her arms--she had said it was her baby.
          Jennette said: "Turn your horses around as quickly as possible,"--which he did without
            a moment's hesitation, for no one wanted to get away from that place worse than
            himself.
          She said: "Now, drive like mad, for we must get out of here."
          Now that she could give vent to her tears, she hugged, kissed and cried over the poor
            little prisoner, who still had the piece of rope around his little ankle, and which
            almost broke his mother's heart to see. He was so delighted at finding her and overjoyed
            at his freedom that it prostrated him with nervousness, and he fell back in her arms,
            perfectly limp, his head resting on the bosom that held the heart that had undergone
            such dreadful sufferings for him.
          She rubbed his limbs and poured soothing words  into his
            ears, until he began to talk and ask her questions about where she was going to take him
            and if they were going back to Grandma Browning's.
          She started at this, because it was the first time since he had been stolen from her,
            that she had thought of sending any word to her mother. She knew now how she must be
            feeling, for he was idolized by his aunt Minnie and grandma, almost as much as by
            herself.
          Feeling guilty of almost a crime, she replied: "Not right away, Guy, but we will go
            some time. But, first, we must get you so far away that that villain can never find you
            again."
          He clung close to her, and said: "Oh, mamma, he has been so unkind to me--made me wear
            this old dirty dress, like I was a girl," and he burst into tears at the thought of the
            humiliation.
          But she told him not to cry, and she would buy him a nice boy's suit, when they reached
            the city, where Cooper could never see him again.
          This comforted the little fellow, and she asked him if he was hungry. He said: "Yes,
            mamma, I have not eaten a bite since this morning. He ties me when he goes away, so I
            don't get lost, he says, in the big cave and then he stays away till I nearly starve
            sometimes. Then he whipped me for crying, Oh, mamma, I am so afraid he'll get me
            again."
          Jennette's eyes flashed fire, as she said: "No, darling, if he ever gets you again, he
            will take you over my dead body."


          


          He was frightened at that, aud said: "Oh, no, mamma, let me go, before you get
            killed."
          She gave him some of the sandwitches and an orange. As he took the orange, she
            remembered she had left one in the cave with her name picked in the rind of it. She had
            picked it there with a pin, as they had ridden along. She had been thinking deeply and
            thoughtlessly left it where it would fall into Cooper's hands. She said: "I am glad I
            left it where he will get it. He will see that I have outwitted him for once, at
            least."
          Jennette hurried the driver until, about eight,o'clock in the evening, they drove into
            the city, passing the fountain we have before mentioned, when Guy sprang up and said: "I
            have been to this place, mamma."
          She was startled at the thought and said: "Have you, dear, and who was with you?"
          "Why, Cooper and another man, that always goes with him when he takes me. And I thought
            you were in a big house over there some place," pointing toward the boarding house where
            she was stopping, "and I, the last night we were here, cried and called you loudly, but
            he put his hand over my mouth and I could not make you hear."
          She felt a chill creep over her and said: "Do you know what night it was, dear?"
          "Why, it was night before last, I believe, mamma."
          She drew him to her heart, and kissing him tenderly, said: "I know you did, for I
            thought I heard you, but  it was so dark and I had just
            got here that evening and did not know where to go to look for you."
          "Did he ever take you out in day time?"
          "Yes, a few times; but I cried every time, for I wanted to see you so badly, and he
            just quit taking me, and I had not been out for many days when you came."
          "Poor little boy, you shall go home now, and never be his prisoner again."
          They drew up at the boarding house, where Blackburn, who was walking the floor with
            anxiety about Jennette, was first to meet them.
          She said: "Mr. Blackburn, will you please take my boy out for me?" 
          He was so astonished and confounded he could not speak. But lifting Guy out, he looked
            first at the happy mother, then at the shy little pale-faced boy, to see whom was worth
            all the trouble and pains he had taken.
          At last he said: "How on earth, Jennette, did you discover his whereabouts?"
          She led the way into the house and soon told all that had happened. While Blackburn
            rejoiced with her, yet he felt a little chagrined at the idea of her outwitting himself
            and one of the best detectives in the United States. He said: "Jennette, I am happy in
            the thought that you have your boy at last. The mother heart has proven a better
            detective than you could hire, and I rejoice with you and feel that, although I did not
            find your child, I have, at least, been of some assistance  to you in directing your course in the right direction."
          That night the loving mother slept with her baby boy, while his unnatural father walked
            the room of his dark, damp cave, with no companion but the bats and owls that made their
            home in the cavern. He read the name on the orange before him, and saw that she who had
            suffered had at last conquered. And he clenched his fists and muttered words that would
            have made Jennette's blood run cold, had she heard them.
          She slept the sleep of the just that night and awakened next morning to find no longer
            an empty bed, but a sunny head, with pale, sweet face, fast asleep by her side. Smiles
            were on his little lips, for surely angels were giving him pleasant dreams, as they
            stooped to record the prayer of thanksgiving which fell from the lips of the happy
            mother.
        

        
        

           CHAPTER XXIX. JENNETTE IN COOPER'S CLUTCHES.
          
            
              When coming to the dark, damp cave,
              He found his prisoner flown;
              He gnashed his teeth in fiendish wrath,
              Because in this he recognized
              The mother of his son.
            
          
          How differently the night was passed by Cooper. Let the reader imagine, if he can, the
            feelings of that heartless father, when he found his little bird had flown, and when the
            orange, which lay on the rickety table before him, showed, by the light of the pine knot
            in the wall, whose hands had cut the rope that freed the little prisoner, the only tie
            that linked in any way the lives of the two--Jennette Browning and Jay Cooper.
          When he found the child was really gone, and discovered that it was his mother who had
            rescued him, he gnashed his teeth, clenched his fists, and vowed to be avenged. He
            muttered through his set teeth that she would fall a prey to his
            vengeance next; that she would never slip upon him in this way again. Then he would
            stop, take up the orange, look at it again and mutter the words: "It was she. It was
            none other than  Jennette! How on earth did she ever get a
            clue to this old God-forsaken cave? Why, it takes a villain like myself to enter its
            dark chambers, that are known all over these parts as the haunted cave? Well, well, will
            wonders never cease? As long as I let her run loose, there is no escaping her. I reckon
            her old uncle left her the chink,or she could not have reached these parts and played
            her cards so fine. But just wait, I'll trap her yet."
          He threw himself on the bed of leaves which the little boy he had so cruelly treated,
            had occupied the night before, and slept the restless sleep of the guilty, waking and
            starting at the sound of the bats and the hoot of the owls that frequented the caverns
            of the mighty tunnel-house, which appeared to him had been prepared for his especial
            use, and as he believed furnished him a perfect hiding place for his fiendish work. On
            awaking next morning he might have been seen peering from the opening of his
            hiding-place noiselessly and cautiously, not daring to make a bold venture outside,
            before he had a view of the surroundings. He felt that it was altogether probable that
            detectives were on the alert, and he might be nabbed at any moment, and made to pay
            dearly for his deeds of the past. But finding the way clear, he concluded to go out in
            the morning light and hide in some secluded spot until the shades of another evening
            came, then he would go to the city and find Jennette, if she had not yet gone.
          But when Jennette had finished her morning toilet, 
            stepping lightly around so that her little darling, who had been passing such restless
            nights for weeks, and was now sleeping such a sweet, peaceful, restful slumber--might
            not awaken.
          Presently his blue eyes opened wide, and raising himself up quickly, said, "Oh! mamma!
            I was so afraid to go to sleep last night for fear I should awake to find it only a
            dream, that I had you with me."
          She took him in her arms tenderly, saying: "No, darling, it was not a dream." And now
            mamma is really with you, you must get dressed in those ugly clothes that you feel so
            badly about. You can stay here with a kind gentleman that came here with me to help find
            you, while I go out to a clothiers, and get you a new suit."
          His eyes sparkled, while he said: "I will be so glad to get on my boy clothes, for I do
            hate dresses for a boy, don't you, mamma?"
          "Yes, love, I never want to see you in dresses again; you are my little man, and Cooper
            is a mean rascal to humiliate you in such a manner." She led him to the breakfast room
            where he ate heartily, and all who had heard the story of the wonderful rescue, looked
            at him in wonder and astonishment, to know that such a young, frail looking woman as his
            mother, could think of outwitting detectives, and running such a risk, to rescue the
            little fellow.
          But in every way Jennette Browning was a true mother; possessed of that high and noble
            principle  that would cause her to lay down her life, if
            need be, for the child she bore.
          She met Mr. Blackburn in the parlor after she and Guy had breakfasted, and asked him if
            she might leave Guy in his care while she went shopping.
          He answered, "Most certainly, I will be pleased to serve you in any way you might
            suggest, as you have so heroically saved me the trouble of the rescue," laughing and
            telling her he had proved himself no help as yet, and it was time he was making himself
            useful.
          She smiled a happy, contented smile, and said: "I am very grateful for all you have
            done, and it remains to be seen what there is yet to do. If you can only capture Cooper,
            and bring him to justice, I shall feel that you can never be repaid."
          Guy looked shy, and she asked him if he would stay with the gentleman while she was
            absent an hour or so.
          He consented, rather reluctantly. But when Mr. Blackburn caught him up and hugged him
            and told him to let mamma go, and he would see that no one came near to molest him, it
            satisfied him and he perched himself upon Mr. Blackburn's knee and chatted gayly until
            Jennette returned. She then took him to her room, where she clothed him in a suit that
            made him look like a young prince. And when he was again led forth, Mr. Blackburn was
            astonished at the gentlemanly appearance of the child, and said: "I shall now look after
            Cooper; for surely the villain who could take his own child and treat him in such a man-
               manner, deserved the severest punishment. After a short
            conversation with Jennette, he proposed to go to her detective, and in company with him,
            attempt the arrest of Cooper, hoping that they might be more successful in this than
            they were in the rescue of Guy. He told Jennette that to rescue a child and take a man
            prisoner were two different things, and she would not be needed this time. So she had
            better stay close in the house with her boy, for fear of a second kidnapping.
          She promised to stay indoors now, for, as she said, her mind was at rest as far as Guy
            was concerned and as for Cooper, she thought any ordinary detective might easily
            discover his whereabouts.
          Blackburn left the house, determined to find him, and not let Jennette be the only
            shrewd one of the party.
          After he had gone, Jennette spent a pleasant day with her little boy--the happiest she
            had known for many months--and wrote some letters--one to her mother, whom she knew was
            troubled almost to death, and one to Mrs. Allen, her old tried and true friend. Oh, how
            she poured out her soul in that letter. She recounted her great sufferings and the
            lonely hours she had passed in hunting her child, knowing that in her she would find a
            ready sympathizer, which she ever did under all circumstances.
          Mrs. Allen, at her home, was restlessly awaiting a letter, or some tidings from her
            wandering friend. And who could be happier than she was, at receiving a  letter from Jennette? She was daily watching the papers for
            tidings of the lost child and grieved as a mother because none came.
          The day wore away pleasantly to both Jennette and Guy, and night came, with no tidings
            of Blackburn or the detective.
          Guy began talking about the fountain, two or three squares away and said he would like
            a drink from it.
          She told him, if he would stay in the room and not go out until she returned, she would
            go and get him a drink.
          He told her he would stay, but that he did not want her to go for the water.
          Nevertheless, she felt that his thirst must be quenched with the water he desired. So,
            putting on her hat, she walked out and made her way to the fountain. She was just
            holding her pitcher to catch the falling sprays, when a hand was placed over her mouth
            and she was seized by two ruffians, who, after dragging her some distance, thrust a
            handkerchief into her mouth so tightly that she could scarcely breathe. Then they placed
            her in a carriage and whirled rapidly away.
          She knew in a moment that it was Cooper, but this time she herself, and not Guy, was
            the captive, and she thanked God, in her heart, that it was so. Her arms were pinioned
            to her sides, and her feet shackled, so that no sound or noise of any kind could she
            make. She could hear the two men talking and heard Cooper's voice plainly; but the other
            voice was that of a stranger.  She could not tell who it
            might be, but thought it was probably Cooper's brother. She lay very quietly where they
            placed her, in the back part of the carriage, but she found that, in their great hurry
            and the darkness, they had not fastened her hands as tightly as they might have done.
            She found she could work one loose, and taking the other one out of its place, she
            pulled the handkerchief from her mouth. She resolved to wait until they passed some one
            in a vehicle; then she would shout with all her might, and, by getting her freedom, she
            might entrap Cooper. Presently she heard voices and recognized the voice of the kind old
            man she had met at the fountain. Raising the curtains of the carriage, which she had
            slyly unbuttoned while they thought her safely bound and gagged, she screamed in a wild,
            appealing voice: "Help! Help!"
          This so terrified Cooper, who was not expecting such a move from her they believed safe
            in their power, that they struck their frightened horses, and they gave such a bound
            that, in their swift movement and quick turn, they snapped the tongue of the carriage
            off as quickly as if it had been glass, and they were powerless to move on. The men
            jumped from their seats, knowing that the men they had to encounter were miners, and
            good men, --men that feared neither friend or foe,--and they concluded to make good
            their escape; for now Jennette could talk and was making good use of her privilege in a
            rapid manner.
          The kind, rough-looking old gentleman recognized 
            Jennette as soon as he held his lantern to her face.
          She said: "Sir, I know your face; I met you at the fountain one day, not long ago."
          "Yes, my dear young lady, and how came those ruffians to have you in their
            clutches?"
          "Why, you see I had gone to the fountain to get a pitcher of water, when a hand was
            placed over my mouth and I was bound hand and foot and placed in this carriage. Will you
            take me back to the city? I will pay you well for your trouble."
          "Yes, indeed, madam," he replied, while his genteel companion said: "Of course, Miss,
            we will see you in safe quarters; then those villains must be looked after,
            immediately.
          It was between the hours of eleven and twelve when they drove up to the boarding house.
            They found everything all excitement--Blackburn having got home an hour before and
            learned that Jennette had gone to the fountain after dark, to get water for her boy, and
            had not yet returned; little Guy refusing to be comforted, because, he said, he knew
            mamma would be taken away as he was, to live in that old dark cave.
          The reader can imagine the joy that filled the little heart, when his mamma appeared at
            the door of the room, where she had left him, with the injunction not to leave it until
            she returned.
          Jennette told her story, the two gentlemen who came with her corroborating it, and
            Blackburn and the detective decided at once to start in hot pursuit. The kind  old gentleman before mentioned proposed to accompany the
            detective and Blackburn to the spot where he last saw Cooper, and forthwith the party
            made their way, finding nothing but the broken carriage, the horses having been turned
            loose to go in whatever direction they might, the two men seeking refuge under cover of
            the darkness. Cooper's brother had got the rig from a livery stable in the city, and if
            they succeeded in the capture of Jennette, he was to take her to the cave, then return
            the rig and keep still--under no circumstances was he ever to tell what he had done.
            Jennette had fallen into their hands even more readily than they had hoped for, which
            was to them a streak of good luck, and in their exultation they had neglected to secure
            their prize as carefully as they should have done, and her sudden screaming startled
            them so that they did not know what to do. Just then seeing two miners coming, whom they
            met every day in the mines, and knowing them to be brave, honest men, they thought it
            best to make good their escape before they were recognized.
          And now, when the detective and party found no sign of any one, they proposed going in
            separate directions, to meet in the city in the morning and take Cooper dead or alive,
            should they find him,
          When morning came, they had met with no tidings of the villain, and after breakfasting,
            they again started to seek out every nook and corner of the cave, as well as other parts
            of the mines.


          

          There was a ship at the wharf that was to sail for England the next day at 10 A. M.,
            and Cooper, feeling his time had come and if caught, he must give an account of himself,
            resolved to go and ship with the vessel and sail to another clime, where he would never
            again hear the name of Jennette spoken. For she had now foiled him in the only two plans
            through which he had ever hoped for revenge. Thus, while the detective and party were
            exploring the cave, Cooper might have been seen stealing along the wharf and getting
            aboard the vessel that was just about to leave the harbor. He made his way to the
            captain of the ship and engaged a berth to England, leaving Jennette Browning to enjoy
            all America as best she could. Feeling that to try longer for revenge for a love he
            could never win was useless, and all that was left for him to do was to seek a home in a
            foreign land where his past life was unknown and he would never hear her name spoken,
            for it was like a knife to his heart to hear it fall from the lips of any one. So he was
            soon plowing through deep waters, with only a bitter memory of things past that arose up
            like a hideous nightmare to haunt him.
          After searching in vain all parts of the cave and mines, the party returned to seek out
            the different localities of the city, and by a clue they got at the office where he
            registered his name before starting, they learned that he had gone on the ship, and
            there they left him. The detective felt somewhat chagrined at the  thought of a frail little woman like Jennette extricating herself from the
            villainous hands of the man, he had been for weeks pursuing, and he had not even got
            sight of him. And he felt that the rescuing of the child by her own hands, was a blot on
            his fame as a detective, and he must go back, feeling that a woman will sometimes come
            out ahead, for said he, "Who would have believed that little Hoosier could have come
            away out here and have gone ahead of an old detective."
          Blackburn laughed at him and said: "You don't like it, old boy--it does reflect a
            little on your reputation, but nevertheless she is a cute little Hoosier girl, and we
            must make the best of it, now that we are completely outdone. I will go back to her and
            crown her captain of her own detective force, and if she thinks she needs a travelling
            companion, I might go along and carry her travelling bag and be of some small
            service."
          The detective winced under the joke and vowed he would go back as he came--alone. He
            declared a woman would have her way, anyhow, and she might as well
            never have employed a detective as to have run ahead and won all the laurels at
            last.
          The two laughingly parted at the seaside, never to meet again. Blackburn went back and
            told Jennette they had traced Cooper to the ship wharf and found he had taken passage
            for England.
          Jennette drew a great sigh of relief, feeling that to know the old ocean lay between
            Cooper and her was a  satisfaction she had longed for, but
            never expected to enjoy. She lay down to sleep that night with a lighter heart than she
            had possessed for years.
          Blackburn retired to think over the past, wondering in his own mind, if there was the
            slightest hope for him, or if Jennette could ever be won over to himself again.


        


        


        
           CHAPTER XXX. BLACKBURN REJECTED-JENNETTE RETURNS TO HER
            FRIENDS.
          
            
              The round, pale moon was floating bright,
              Amid the blue of heaven;
              The stars shed forth their holy light
              Upon the dewy even.
              She gazed, enraptured, on the scene,
              To see her home, her child
              Once more united here on earth,
              With ecstasy, how wild.
            
          
          Jennette slept soundly, dreaming of home--the pleasant, happy home of her
            childhood--and of the days when she wandered by the brooklets and gathered the sweetest
            flowers of springtime, weaving them in chaplets, for the crowning of the queen of
            spring--just as she did in those days when Dolph Farrer took her boat-riding or helped
            her catch a pony in the clover field, that she might mount it in her tomboy style, and
            take a ride without saddle or bridle, a wood-bark strap the only guide by which it was
            to be kept in its course.
          She awoke in the morning, feeling much refreshed from such a dream and looking happier
            than she had ever looked, in Blackburn's eyes, as she led her boy into the dining room,
            meeting him there. She spoke  pleasantly and cheerfully,
            saying: "I am ready to leave California to-day. What about yourself, Mr. Blackburn; have
            you seen enough of this tropical climate?"
          He blushed a little, saying he had gone over enough ground to learn that the soil was
            good, but he felt that he had made more failures in this country than any he had ever
            come in contact with, and he was ready to say good-bye to all its fruits, flowers and
            gold, if she was.
          She told him the next time they came to California, perhaps they would be in a better
            condition to look after the beauties of the Pacific slope than they had been this time,
            and when he got into trouble, if he wanted a detective, he could send for her, as she
            was one with experience and would repay him for what he had done for her. She laughed,
            and her voice rang out clear and sweet, and he felt that she was more to him just then
            than any living being on earth, and what must he do? Dare he ask her to be his wife, the
            second time, when he had played the coward and done so many bungling things to disgust
            her?
          She walked back to her room and began packing her trunk, preparatory for her departure
            on the ten o'clock train.
          He met her soon in the hall and told her, if she intended to go, he would order her
            trunk taken to the depot, and see that all was ready.
          She thanked him, and was about to pass on, when he stopped her by saying: "I shall take
            the same train, as  we will have many miles to travel
            before I separate from you."
          She felt uneasy, knowing that he still retained his old love for her. And now that she
            had accepted his services, she might naturally suppose he would renew his proposal,
            believing she had forgiven and forgotten the past. But Jennette Browning was not that
            kind of a woman. While she had accepted his company and proffered services, she had not
            forgotten that he might have saved her all this trouble once, if he had kept his word
            with her. But now, since he would believe a lie rather than trust her honor, he need
            never attempt to ingratiate himself in her favor again.
          When the train was ready, so was the little boy they had travelled so far to find, and
            they left the beautiful country much happier than when they came. When once fairly on
            the road, much as Jennette tried to ward off the blow he must surely receive, he
            persisted in bringing the fatal crisis upon himself by asking her if she would forgive
            the past and yet accept him as her husband.
          She told him: "Never!" and said: "Mr. Blackburn, don't think me unkind or unthankful;
            if I can pay you in money for the services you have rendered me, I shall gladly do so;
            but never can I take the place others taught you to believe I was not worthy to fill.
            You might be led to listen again to some evil tale, and I would be a wife, and it would
            be much harder for me to bear, should you desert me then."


          

          He was crimson then, for the words fell upon his ear, like clods upon a coffin. He saw
            how useless it would be for him to plead his cause, when he read his decided fate in her
            countenance, and said: "Well, Jennette, I am glad to have met you again, anyhow, for I
            have learned more fully now what I have lost; and in knowing this, it will serve to keep
            me more strictly to a purpose and to weigh a matter well before taking a step that will
            be a step toward my ruin. I have indeed learned a sad lesson, by my experience with
            you--one that will mark the whole course of my life--for I shall never be the man I
            would have been, had I never met Jay Cooper and given an ear to his cunningly devised
            plan--a plan that was to wreck both your life and my own. But I shall try to submit to
            my fate and ask for grace to sustain me in this, the darkest hour of my life. To lose
            you the first time was hard, yet I felt that you had wronged me; but now, to lose you is
            to feel that I have wronged both you and myself, and the weight of condemnation rests
            alone with me, and I am wretched, indeed."
          He arose and walked to the farther end of the car and sat for hours with his head bent
            down on the seat before him.
          Jennette pitied him, for she remembered how he had offered her and Guy a home at one
            time and how he had loved her and how generously he had dealt with her, in every way, in
            the past, even giving up his parish for an indefinite period to help find her boy; and
               then, how diligently he had searched for Cooper. Yet,
            notwithstanding all this, she said to herself: "No man shall foil me the second time,
            and I have learned there is no dependence to be put in man; and I'll
            never listen to another one breathe out a tale of love to me. I am rid of all of them,
            and I shall remain in the 'state of single blessedness,' the remainder of my days," and
            with a positive turn of the mouth, she turned her whole thoughts toward her boy. She was
            careful to have him note all objects of interest along the road, and as they chatted and
            laughed, passing the time pleasantly, no one would have believed she was the same woman
            that passed over the road a short time before, for pleasure had taken the place of
            wretchedness, and she was another person, to all appearances. Her whole soul was set on
            seeing Mrs. Allen, now, and telling her the wonderful escape she had made from Cooper
            and how she found and rescued her boy and the heart-trials she had undergone since they
            had parted.
          The great chasm was crossed this time, with but little fear, and the mountain side
            scaled as easily as if it had not been a dangerous feat to run above such a yawning
            precipice; for expectation led her to look beyond it all to a hapyy meeting with
            friends. She had her boy now, and they ate, drank and slept together on the fast
            east-bound train. She could ask no more than to be carried back in such a manner to
            those who loved her. "And now," she said, "I can go west and begin life anew, for I have
            no Cooper to fear."


          


          The time came when Blackburn had to change cars-- for she was going to Indiana and he
            to Iowa. He came to her, asked to be remembered kindly by her, and said: "I shall
            suffer, but if I know that you are happy, it will serve as a balm to my wounded
            heart."
          She said: "I am sorry you suffer, but ask you to seek some one the world will
            acknowledge worthy, and make her your wife, and be happy."
          He felt the rebuke, caught her hand and kissed it, and left the train--never to meet
            Jennette Browning again, in this life.
          She felt a little nervous over it, for he looked so distressed that his pale face
            haunted her. Yet she did not relent, or feel that, under any circumstances, could she do
            differently--after knowing him, as she did, and learning his weakness. "Yet," she said,
            in her heart: "I will remember him with the greatest kindness, and if it is ever in my
            power, I will favor him in remembrance of this act--helping me in an hour of sore
            trial."
          She was carried back to the old Hoosier state, a happy mother, for her idol was with
            her and her persecutor gone--an ocean rolling between them--she had no reason to fear
            him.
          Mrs. Allen had received Jennette's letter and was waiting to receive her, with extended
            arms. She had all her possessions in shape, so that at any time she and Jennette could
            take their anticipated trip west.
          Jennette told her she had spent so much money in this affair that she did not know as
            she had best start, until  she first went to work at her
            trade and made some more money to add to her little bank account, which had been almost
            drained by her travelling expenses and detective fees.
          Mrs. Allen would not listen to any such arrangements and said that she had more of this
            world's goods than she knew how to put to good use, and would rather share it with
            Jennette than any one else. So it was settled that they remain a month, to let Jennette
            get rested after her long journey.
          Jennette wrote her mother that Cooper had crossed the ocean, and now she had nothing to
            fear, and as she was too tired to come to see her before going west, she would have to
            excuse her--as perhaps some one might be there, anyway, and she would be in the way.
            Jennette had in her nature a disposition to let people know that a wrong done was never
            forgotten by her.
          Her mother wrote that her heart was troubling her greatly, from the anxiety she had
            undergone since she heard of Guy having been kidnapped, and that she felt the force of
            the rebuke in her letter, but that she felt now to see her and Guy at home once more
            would be such a satisfaction that nothing could engender such a feeling in her heart as
            Jennette had alluded to in her letter, and if they went west, she was afraid she would
            never see them again.
        


        
        

           CHAPTER XXXI. DR. HAYWARD IS STRICKEN WITH A SEVERE
            ILLNESS.
          
            
              When life seems fast ebbing away
              And friends, weeping, 'round us have come,
              'Tis sweet then to know,
              Th ough dark waters roll,
              To the shore our bark yet may come,
              And friends may yet meet us,
              And life may yet greet us,
              Fraught with joys we never have known.
            
          
          The next morning, Charlie arose, dressed himself hurriedly and walked out in the
            morning air, long before any one of the village was up. Somehow he could not rest in bed
            or sitting still, and there seemed to be a heavy weight at his heart. He said to
            himself: "Is it possible my poor little Hoosier girl--my darling Jennette--has suffered
            untold agonies the world has never realized? And I know she has not had the sympathy her
            poor little tender heart yearned for, and I have been wandering about in every
            direction, fearing to hear from her."
          He abused himself for not having written home and kept track of Cooper's maneuvers. He
            said: "I will go to my office and write to brother John."
          So, suiting the action to the word, he dashed off a 
            letter in a hurried, excited manner, telling him where he lived, about his marriage and
            the death of his wife and what he had learned, through the papers, of Jennette's
            suffering and loss. He said: "I should like to engage in the search for Cooper, but if I
            did, his life would pay the penalty at my hands. If I knew I could do any good in the
            effort, I should start to-day-- but I shall wait for further developments. Write me and
            tell me all that has happened in the six years past."
          He sealed and mailed his letter, trusting to Providence to help him learn something
            soon--that the suspense he felt in waiting might be relieved.
          A few days passed, however, before he had any more word from the missing child. He
            watched every paper and hardly ate or slept. One evening he picked up a paper and was
            eagerly scanning its columns, when his eye fell on these words: "Jennette Browning has
            reached California and is still in pursuit of her child. She is said to be wasted away
            and looking like a skeleton, but her heart is brave and her courage strong, for she
            thinks she has a clue to her missing boy."
          Oh, how Charlie's heart swelled with emotion at the thought of poor little brave
            Jennette. "Yes," he said, "it is just like her, just like her. She'll never give it up
            until she finds him. I knew she would be a true mother; for one that could prove so true
            to the dead could not help proving affectionately true to the living."
          It was not long before he received a warm, tender letter from his brother John, who
            wrote that he  supposed he was dead--not believing that he
            would hie himself off to some far away spot and bury himself from his friends like this;
            but was overjoyed at receiving a letter from him and hoped to see him soon. "Yes," he
            said, "Jennette Browning has been the victim of one of the foulest crimes that has ever
            been perpetrated in this county, and it seemed as if Cooper would never relinquish his
            grasp. He has pursued her with a vengeance that would doubtless follow her to the grave,
            were it not that she had detectives on his track and was pursuing him herself. I believe
            she will never rest until she has brought him to justice--which I earnestly hope she
            will do."
          Charlie read the letter over and over again, and folding it up, said: "I shall go back
            to the Territory. I want to see my baby girl, anyway--she must be quite a little girl by
            this time, for she is almost a year old."
          He was addressing Fern, who said: "I have been thinking and wondering why you did not
            go back to her. I know Mrs. Lenhart wants to see you very much."
          "Yes," said Charlie, "and I feel that I am not acting just as I should, but business
            has kept me so close for the past few months that I could not find time to pen them any
            more than a few hasty lines; but now I shall go and visit them and see how my little
            daughter is growing. I have no fears as to her care; I know she is cared for tenderly. I
            would like to go back to Indiana, if I had my business in better shape. I would  like to go and join in the search for Cooper. I feel as
            though I could hardly give it up. I owe him a grudge, and just now, revenge would be to
            me as sweet as nectar."
          "Why, Charlie, I didn't know you had a revengeful spirit."
          "I believe I never did feel just as I now do toward him. But when I look back a few
            years, they seem to me long, long years of painful suspense. I have longed to hear how
            she ever lived with a man I know she did not love--yet, I shrank from knowing the truth,
            never believing he would be kind to her--yet, not thinking he would be guilty of the
            terrible act he has been proven guilty of. I hated him for two reasons: first, he
            stepped between me and the woman I loved and poisoned her father's mind toward me;
            secondly, I knew he was unworthy of her and was covering his hypocritical self with a
            cloak of religious guise, and it made me hate him--too much for endurance. So I left the
            country, that I might never know how he did treat my little Hoosier girl after marriage.
            But now, to know he tcok this advantage of her and left her a mother, but no wife--she
            entirely innocent--I am driven to a hatred of him that is torturing; and if I had my
            will, justice should be meted out to him, unmingled with mercy."
          "I have never seen you so moved before," replied Fern, "you have surely suffered in the
            past. Yet, you  seemed like a happy husband and father, as
            far as any one could judge."
          "Oh, Fern, I would not have you think, for a moment, that I did not love my wife and
            child. Buelah was just the sweetest little woman that could be found in the Territory,
            and had it not been for her, I would have been a wreck of a man--just as I have said
            many times before, she came just in time to save me. I shall ever cherish her
            memory--fondly and tenderly will I think of her in all the years that will come to
            me--but, Fern, she was not to me what Jennette would have been, for I loved Jennette first, with all the devotion of my first love and a strong manhood. I
            was no school-boy, whose first love dies out with ripening manhood; but I loved her with
            a love that can never be forgotten. And now that I am again left alone in the world, I
            feel that to meet her would be bliss to me."
          Dr. Hayward turned and walked away, while Fern looked after him, wondering in her heart
            what would be the result if he should ever meet this little Hoosier girl he spoke of
            with so much animation and warmth.
          The more Dr. Hayward strove to get his business matters so arranged that he could go,
            the more business seemed to increase. There was an epidemic breaking out--a fever of
            some kind, that called him night and day. The people far and near called for "Dr.
            Hayward! Dr. Hayward." No one else answered the purpose. He had had such success that
            other physicians stood in awe of him and hungered while he feasted.


          

          By thus overtaxing his strength, he at last fell a prey to the disease himself, and
            every one despaired of his life. For days and weeks, Fern watched him with the tenderest
            sisterly care. No brother could have done more for another than Otho did for him; but
            still he hung between life and death, with the best physician in attendance that
            Richmond could furnish. They had sent there, and had the best medical advice the city
            could afford. Dr. and Mrs. Lenhart, with Glen and baby Lillian were summoned, and all
            hope was gone; the doctors said he must die.
          He gave Lillian to her grandparents and said he would like to live to help Jennette
            Browning find Cooper and rescue her child, having often talked of her in his delirium.
            One night, after all had given him up, and the friends and sympathizing strangers were
            watching around the bed, he aroused from a stupor, and opening his eyes, he said: "I
            shall live! the crisis is past!"
          Although it was said in a whisper, all who stood near heard it and were delighted; for
            they saw and felt that what he said was true. The attending physician said: "Now, with
            the greatest possible care, he can live"-- and it was an evident fact that there would
            be no lack of tender nursing.
          So, gradually and slowly, he came back from the jaws of death, to live among a large
            circle of friends and to reap an abundant harvest of interest, in the life that was
            before him. As he grew stronger, he wished  to travel and
            get away from care for a while. So, he concluded to go home with his father-in-law and
            spend a few months in the west for his health, and in the meantime learn more of
            Jennette Browning, if he could. It was not long before he was able to go; and he bid
            good-bye to his many friends for a stay among relatives in the western country.
          Little Lillian was a lovely babe, with all her mother's sweetness of disposition, and
            she soon learned to love her father tenderly. She would bury her little fat hands in his
            black, curly hair and crow and laugh until he pronounced her charming and altogether
            lovely He often looked at her and thought to himself: "No wonder Jennette would risk so
            much for her child; for I know now how she must love him."
          He wrote again to his brother John, asking for all the information he could get,
            concerning Jennette. Soon he received an answer, stating that she had found her boy and
            got back to her friends, somewhere--he did not remember where, but that they lived in
            Indiana. He said he had learned that she was going away, to live with a friend in a
            distant country, though he had not learned where--whether it was east, west, north or
            south--and that they were ready to start when he last heard from them.
          He read the letter and looked disappointed, and said: "She is lost to me again! How
            useless it would be to go back to Indiana, only to hear it said, 'She is gone.' I shall
            be obliged to let it all go. I believe fate has  decreed
            it, that we are never to be any more to each other than we are."
          Dr. Hayward's health did not seem to improve much after that, but on the contrary, he
            seemed to be on the decline, and his parents would not listen to his going back to a
            place where the people would not let him rest. They said: "Of course, with his nature, he could not say no to any one who was suffering or any one who had
            suffering friends. If he should go back to his practice now, it would prove ruinous to
            his health and he would soon leave little Lillian fatherless. He owes it to her, as a
            sacred duty, to stay in the Territory and go over his old hunting grounds and try to get
            the color back to his face and strength to his weakened body, before he goes on his long
            journey east."
        

        

        

           CHAPTER XXXII. GOING WEST AND TEACHING SCHOOL.
          
            
              The sweetest hours in human life
              Are when deep thought pervades the soul.
              T'is then we cast a backward glance
              O'er joys and miseries we have passed
              In striving for the goal.
            
          
          Jennette answered her mother's letter very tenderly, telling her she hoped to see her
            again, but would not come home just now, for she had been foiled in going west so often
            that she could not take any more chances on it, and that when she read that letter, she
            might know she had gone, but that she would write again. She said the money she had paid
            out for detectives and traveling expenses, she had intended to divide with her --"but
            you see, mother, I never did undertake anything that I set my heart on, but that Jay
            Cooper came up just in time to ruin my dearest hopes and prospects. I shall not be moved
            from my purpose now. I shall go west and teach school among the Indians, where it does
            not require such an accomplished teacher and where they get good wages. They are sadly
            in need of teachers at present, and I shall go at once. After I 
            

              JENNETTE DISCOVERS THE GRAVE OF CHARLIE HAYWARD'S WIFE.


            
            
             have made some money, I will send you all I can spare.
            Until then, I hope you and sister Minnie may have plenty to keep you above want."
          She sent her letter that afternoon and the next morning she and her friend, with little
            Guy, took a train for the west. They travelled day and night until they reached their
            destination, and stopped in the village of R----, where they learned something of the
            manner in which the schools were carried on among the Indians.
          Jennette, although a brave little woman, felt herself grow timid, when she saw the
            great, brawny red men come riding into town, looking so fierce and wild with their
            Indian costumes.
          Mrs. Allen laughed at her and told her she had often wondered if the sight of those
            great red men would not make a change in her mind and purposes.
          Jennette declared that although she feared them, she would not alter her intention,
            until she had tested the matter by teaching a school.
          She applied to the authorities, with good recommendations as to character and
            qualifications, and was appointed teacher over the school in the Watchata district.
          Mrs. Allen accompanied her to her school-room and they looked at the rude log hut with
            a faint feeling at the heart. But, notwithstanding all this, Jennette said: "This is a
            rude structure, but with many apartments, and other teachers live here and teach, and so
            can I."


          


          Mrs. Allen was pleased to see that she had so much pluck, and said: "As you will all
            live in the same building, you will not be afraid, will you, Jennette?"
          She replied: "I do not intend to let myself grow faint-hearted or fearful."
          The building was a large one, with eight rooms for pupils, each room being supplied
            with a teacher and each teacher having a small room in which to eat and sleep. The
            government gave the food supply, and it was cooked by those who did not know how to
            prepare a very delicate dish; therefore Jennette and Guy found living in the west was
            not as agreeable as could be desired. Yet, she kept right on, from day to day, with some
            of the dumbest specimens of humanity any one ever tried to teach.
          Mrs. Allen boarded at the village hotel and came over Saturdays to spend the day with
            Jennette and Guy. Sometimes she had them accompany her to her place of boarding and get
            a good meal.
          At first Jennette felt very timid, when she saw a trail of Indians go by, or when some
            old "red-skin" would come to her and try, by broken English and gestures, to have her
            know he wanted his son or daughter attended to in a different manner. She shrank from
            their approaches, yet she tried to show to them that she intended to do right and deal
            justly to all and fearlessly go forward in the line of duty.
          Mrs. Allen came over one Friday evening, staid all night with Jennette and proposed a
            ramble through  the forest next day on horseback. They had
            both bought themselves Indian ponies,--even for Guy his mamma had bought a very small
            one, a gentle little spotted one. He called it Midget, and would ride to the prairie--
            about a mile and a half distant, and back again, and enjoy it beyond expression.
          Jennette had, as yet, never gone to the prairie. So, when morning came, she proposed to
            go out, and, after rambling through the forest, they would go to the prairie and gather
            flowers, which she heard grew there in luxuriant beauty.
          Mrs. Allen consented, for she loved to please Jennette in everything as much as though
            she was her own daughter. So they started and took in the surrounding forest, Guy riding
            ahead and calling his mamma's attention to everything of interest.
          She said to Mrs. Allen: "Why do I feel so happy to-day? I feel light as the morning air
            I breathe. I feel a presentiment of something good--some pleasant prospect before me, or
            something I cannot describe and have never before experienced."
          Mrs. Allen looked at her and noticed the happy expression that played over her
            countenance, and said: "I do not know, dear, I only hope your feelings may not meet with
            any reverse, and that the day may yield you greater joys than you have even
            imagined."
          At length, Jennette said: "We have gone far enough in this direction; let us go to the
            prairie, where I can  give vent to my spirits by galloping
            over its beautiful flower-gardens that nature has planted for us."
          Guy turned his pony's head and led the way, chatting gayly and asking more questions
            than the ladies could take time to answer, for they were busily engaged in conversation.
            After they had ridden about an hour, Guy gave a whoop and plied the whip to his horse
            and said: "Here, mamma, here is the prairie."
           They rode out into the broad, rolling field of waving grass, all dotted over with
            flowers, and Jennette took in a full breath of the pure prairie air, and said: "Could
            anything in nature be more lovely? Now for a gallop, Mrs. Allen, and they started at
            full speed, riding off like school girls. On and on they went until their horses were
            tired, when Jennette proposed to alight and gather some flowers. She said they would
            make the old log school house look more cheerful.
          Guy, who never grew tired of his pony, said he would ride on to where he thought he saw
            a house which looked better than the ordinary houses he had seen since he came west. He
            rode on until he came up to the front of the nice-looking home, and being very thirsty,
            he jumped off his pony, and walking up to the door, asked a gentleman who was holding a
            little child, if he would please let him have a drink of water.
          "Yes, sir, my little man," said the gentleman, "you shall," handing the babe to an aged
            lady sitting near by, he went to the well for water and came out a  moment later with pitcher and glass and poured him out a cool draught.
          Guy bowed, took the glass and drank heartily, for he was very thirsty, and said: "Thank
            you, sir."
          The gentleman asked him how far he had ridden that morning.
          "Eight or ten miles," said he.
          "You are quite a little fellow to ride so far alone; I do not think it safe, my little
            man."
          "Oh, no," said Guy, frankly, "I came with mamma and Mrs. Allen, who are gathering
            flowers yonder--you can just see their ponies,"--pointing to where their ponies were
            grazing, about a mile distant.
          "You are a bright little man," said the gentleman. "I expect your mamma will be uneasy
            about you, soon."
          "Oh no, I guess not," said Guy, "she bought me this pony, to let me ride just where I
            please, and--" He was looking at the baby, who was laughing at him so sweetly that he
            could not finish what he was saying, but left his pony and walked up to the door, and
            said: "What a sweet baby!"
          The old lady said: "Do you love babies?"
          "Yes, ma'am, I think I do," and he walked up to her threw his arms around its neck, and
            said: "Is it your baby?"
          "No, it's my daughter's baby."
          "Where is its mamma, then?" he inquired--for one of his besetments was asking
            questions.
          The old lady looked sad, and said: "She is dead."


          


          He looked at her, and tears stood in his blue eyes, as he kissed the baby again, and
            said: "Poor little thing, got no mamma."
          This touched the tender grandma, and she said: "I want to kiss you, for I see you are a
            little gentleman."
          He put up his mouth for the kiss, and said: "Mamma would be pleased to know you thought
            I was a gentleman, for she thinks it with all her heart."
          The gentleman who had given him the water laughed, and said: "I don't blame her one
            bit. But see, they are on their ponies, and I think they are looking for you."
          "Well, then, baby, good-bye," said Guy, kissing it again.
          He tried to get on the pony, but could not quite make the raise, his little leg was too
            short.
          The gentleman put him on, and told him to come and see them again.
          He thanked him and rode off in the direction of his mamma and Mrs. Allen.
          As he rode away, Charlie Hayward--for this gentleman was none other than he--said to
            Mrs. Lenhart: Why didn't we ask him his name?"
          "I never thought of it," she replied.
          "Nor I," said he, "but I never saw a brighter boy than that." He looked after Guy and
            saw his mother riding toward him. He watched them meet and turn and ride in the other
            direction.
          Speaking to Mrs. Lenhart, he said: "Mother, just  step to
            the door and see how much that small lady looks like Buelah, as she rides on that
            pony."
          She hastened to see and looked eagerly, wondering if any one lived that resembled her
            darling daughter. "Oh, Charlie, it appears the very same. How I wish she had come along.
            I venture to say that she is the mother of the boy; she looks too young, from here, but
            still, it may be that we are too far from them to get any idea of what they are
            like--only that the figure is like Buelah, very much," said she, with a sigh.
          When Guy got back to where he met his mamma and Mrs. Allen, he found that they had
            become very uneasy about him, and Jennette chided him gently. Guy had much to tell her
            about the nice folks in the farm house, and the baby. He said: "Oh, mamma, such a sweet
            baby, and a nice old lady that asked me to kiss her."
          "Which I trust you did, real genteelly," replied she, anxiously.
          "Yes, ma'am, I did; and they invited me to come again."
          Jennette was pleased that they had taken so much notice of her boy, and said: "Did they
            ask your name?"
          "No, mamma, and I forgot to ask theirs."
          Mrs. Alien laughed, and said: "The first time I ever knew Guy to forget to ask a
            question."
          "Well," said the little fellow, "I shall go back again to see that nice baby, some day,
            and I shall not forget it the next time."


          


          "No, I expect you will ride up and call them out and ply the question, the first
            thing," said Jennette.
           The ladies laughed, while Guy felt a little piqued over it.
          They travelled back to the school house, where Jennette taught, slept and ate--in the
            thick woods, just enough having been cleared to protect the house from falling timber.
            It was a lonely place to her, but it was a home, and she was making more money, and more
            easily, than she had ever done before.
          Guy got very lonesome, for those little half-civilized Indians were no company for him,
            but as long as he had his mamma and his pony, he felt a degree of satisfaction.
          Mrs. Allen suffered more from loneliness, in the village, than Jennette did in the
            forest.
          The school term passed away, with but few eventful occurrences. One thing we must
            notice, however, and that is: a little boy of brighter intellect than any other pupil in
            the school, took a great liking to Jennette. He would come to her at recess and pat her
            cheek and tell her white woman was much better looking than red woman, and he wanted her
            to go to his wigwam sometime, to see his mother and pappoose.
          She promised him that some time she would go. He kept reminding her, every day, of it,
            until she concluded to take Guy and go, one evening, and make a call.
          She found them eating supper. She says she never will forget the dirty-looking, filthy
            children, or the  number of, dogs there were about the
            hut. They pressed her to eat with them, which she utterly refused to do, thinking if she
            should, it would surely prove an emetic.
          Guy said: "If the brightest boy in school has such a home as this, what are the others
            like?"
          Jennette could hardly sleep that night, thinking of the degraded set of people she was
            trying to enlighten.
          When Saturday came again, it found Mrs. Allen there, bright and early. She said the
            weeks seemed like months, to her, and the old school house had many attractions for her,
            somehow.
          The teachers all liked Mrs. Allen and were pleased to see her come.
          This time she proposed that they go immediately to the prairie. None of the other
            teachers had a pony; so they could not join the riders, but spent the day in the woods.
            Soon after Jennette and Mrs. Allen came out of the forest, in riding along on the
            prairie, they came across a grave.
          Jennette stopped her horse suddenly and said: "What on earth! There must be a white
            person buried here; for see the nice tombstone and those rustic seats. She rode around
            and read the inscription, which ran as follows: "Buelah Hayward, wife of Charles
            Hayward, departed this life--" That was as far as she could read; her head grew suddenly
            dizzy, and she threw up her hands and said, "Oh! "
          Mrs. Allen rode up to her, caught her arm and  steadied
            her, and then jumping from her pony, she helped her to slip off, where she sank down on
            the grass, as helpless as an infant. "Jennette, what is the matter, dear? Do tell," said
            she.
          Guy was off of his horse and by her side, crying piteously; for he said; "Mamma is
            awful sick, I know."
          But she had only swooned away. She opened her eyes, presently, and looked so pale that
            she startled both the woman and the child. She said: "Read that inscription."
          Mrs. Allen had forgotten the grave in her anxiety for Jennette, but now turned, and as
            she read, the reason for all this began to dawn upon her mind. Jennette had sat and
            talked to her, for hours, of this Charlie Hayward, whom she had so devotedly loved, and
            now she knew all. "Jennette," she said, turning to her, "I see this is the name of your
            old lover, but perhaps it may not be his wife, but one of the same name."
          She answered her by saying that she knew he came west, and she believed it was his
            wife, and the thought of so suddenly coming upon the grave of the wife of her devoted
            lover, away out in this lonely spot, completely overcame her. She got up, took a seat in
            one of the rustic chairs and sat looking at the words on the stone before her. "He must
            have loved her dearly," she said, "see how nicely it is cared for. There is a fresh vase
            of flowers that must have been put here this morning."


          



          Guy held the bridles of the ponies while the women talked, when all at once he said:
            "Yonder comes a man with a gun on his shoulder."' As he came nearer, Guy said: "Oh,
            mamma, it's the gentleman I saw in the house yonder"--pointing across the flower-dotted
            prairie, to the nice farm house.
          He came slowly up and spoke to Guy. Something in his voice startled Jennette; she
            arose, and to her great surprise, she stood face to face with Charlie Hayward.
          He looked at her and turned deathly white; his gun fell from his hand; his lips refused
            to utter a word; while Jennette felt as though she was going to faint. He stepped
            forward at last and said: "Jennette, my dear little Jennette, is it possible?"
          He caught her just as she began to sink down upon the grass at his feet. He knelt upon
            the ground, held her in his arms and wept tears of joy and sorrow--all blending
            together.
          She murmured his name over and over again. It was all she could say. He covered her
            face with kisses and almost washed it with his tears. Guy looked on amazed. He had never
            seen his mamma let any one kiss her before, and this strange gentleman coming up so
            suddenly and kissing and crying over her, was a mystery he could not solve.
          Mrs. Allen knew at a glance the whole story and walked off some distance from them, to
            let them converse undisturbed.


          

          At last Charlie said: "Jennette, tell me, dear, how came you here, away out in this
            country? I heard you had left Indiana, but never dreamed you came west. And how strange
            it is that I should meet you at the grave of my wife."
          Jennette drew back at the mention of wife--feeling just a little of
            the spirit of jealousy.
          He noticed it, and said: "Here, dear, take this seat, and let me tell you all."
          She sat down, and there by the grave of his gentle, loving Buelah, he told her all,
            from the beginning: how sweet his Buelah was, but how soon she died, leaving him a
            little girl to care for. He told her how he had longed to go and help find Cooper--his
            sickness preventing.
          Then Jennette thought of Guy and Mrs. Allen. She called Guy to come, and told Charlie
            this was the little boy she had gone out to find, then told of her trip to California,
            her experience in the cave and the rescue.
          Charlie drew Guy to him, patted his cheek and said: "We have met before--but how little
            I thought of his being your son, Jennette. I should have kept him and gone for his
            mother, had I known it was she I saw gathering flowers away out on the prairie."
          She then told him of Mrs. Allen's great kindness to her, and that she never intended to
            be separated from her. She called her, introduced her to him, and he begged them to go
            home with him for dinner.


          

          Jennette told him she was teaching school for the Indians, in the Watchata
            district.
          He was very much surprised, and said, he never could get over this meeting, he didn't
            believe; it had given him such a shock that he was almost too weak to walk; "but now
            that I have found you, we will give ourselves time to talk, in the future."
          They walked home with him, Guy riding and leading the horses. When they reached the
            house, they found a smoking dinner ready. Mrs. Lenhart was greatly surprised, yet very
            much pleased, to have them come; for it was a rare thing to have such company visit her
            in those parts. She felt a little fearful of consequences when she found that one of the
            ladies was Charlie's lady-love of other days, and said to herself: "Now he will marry
            her and take my baby from me,"--and the idea was appalling to her.
          Jennette loved children so well she could not keep her hands off little Lillian, and,
            strange to say, she made right up with her, and in an hour's time cried to be held in
            her arms.
          Charlie smiled, and said: "I do not wonder at it,"-- looking at Jennette with the same
            old love-light in his eyes.
          Jennette blushed crimson, and said: "She is a very sweet baby; yet, my own is a little
            the sweetest--to me, you know."
          "Oh, yes," said Charlie, "that's natural, and then your boy is nice. I cannot see a
            feature of his father about  him, and I'm glad I cannot,
            Jennette, and I for one, wish he had not crossed the ocean. I feel that revenge for me
            would be sweet, and I should love to have the pleasure of dealing him the blow he so
            richly merits."
          "Well, indeed, I am glad he's gone where he has, for it saves you from a sin that you
            might never repent of, and me from further trouble."
          "Perhaps it is better so, and we will not speak of him again, for I see it pains you.
            Jennette, you have grown old, fast. I never saw a greater change in any one; yet," he
            said tenderly, "you are the same little Hoosier girl, to me."
          At length, when it began to grow late, the ladies said they must be going back. Guy and
            Charlie went to the barn to get the ponies, while Jennette and Mrs. Allen were cordially
            inviting Dr. Lenhart and wife to visit them at the Indian school--as they had no better
            place to entertain them at present.
          They promised to call at an early day, but told them their house was ever open to them,
            as they were Charlie's friends and there were but few white people in the Territory, and
            it was a great treat to have them come.
          While this conversation was passing, Charlie appeared at the door and asked Jennette if
            she would not like to walk a short distance--he wished to accompany her.
          She agreed, and he led the pony, while Guy and Mrs. Allen moved slowly away toward the
            forest, which  in that direction was only about two and a
            half miles away.
          Charlie said to Jennette: "I want that you should go with me to my wife's grave. I
            found you there, after a separation of several years, and it is there I wish to tell you
            what I have longed and longed to tell you, so often, while wandering over this wild
            country."
          Jennette's heart beat fast, she felt that she knew what he wanted to say, but said to
            herself: "I have sworn never again to have aught to do with any man, must I stop to
            consider this matter seriously now?" She felt her vow tottering and herself halting
            between two opinions, with a desire to do right and break no hearts.
          Charlie walked silently for some moments, when he said: "Jennette, this is more than I
            had even dared to hope for. I had given up all expectations of ever meeting you
            again."
          He looked at her and saw in her face a doubtful expression which seemed to say: "I
            don't know that you have any reason to hope now." He felt a chill seize him, but they
            were at the grave, and he said: "Here, Jennette, take this seat with me, while I tie the
            pony to the back of it. "Now," he said, after securing the horse, "let me talk to you as
            of old. Jennette, you see this grave? A sweet and tender-hearted woman lies here; no
            better ever lived, and I loved her because I had none else to love, and because she
            loved me so devotedly."


          



          "Well, Charlie, I am glad," said Jennette, "that you found her, when you needed just
            such a friend."
          "Yes, Jennette, if I had not found her just when I did, I do not know where I should
            have been to-day. It was she who saved me from leaving these parts, and it is this grave
            and the babe you saw to-day that has brought me back here now. So, you see, she has
            proved a blessing to me in her life and a great one in her death-- for it is this that
            brings us together. And, Jennette, I never admitted to her, not for a moment, in all our
            married life, that I loved her as I once loved you--and did at that time, in spite of
            marriage vows; and now, you see, she has been dead quite a year, and my home is lonely,
            away out in old Virginia, and no one on earth can brighten it, but you. Jennette, I come
            the second time pleading my cause, and you are a free woman, having carried out your
            father's request and reaping the reward of a broken vow you had made to me. I excused
            you, Jennette, at that time, for your youth and your conscientious scruples; but now,
            all is taken out of the way. We are both lonely, and have met in a lonely place--far
            away from any we ever knew; so now, I come pleading for my rights--the vow you made me
            in the long ago. What is your answer, Jennette? The stars are not here to tell me, you
            love me still, but your eyes do."
          He took her hands and held them tightly as if he did not intend to let her go until she
            answered him as his heart believed she would.


          

          Her lips trembled, and he saw the agitation. Guessing at the cause, he said: "Your boy,
            too, this time, Jennette; your boy must have a home with us. And he and little Lillian
            will share the same in all things, and no difference must be shown on either side. Say
            you will be all I ask, Jennette, and no Indian in all the western wilds will be half as
            happy as I."
          She was deeply touched at his great kindness of heart, and said: "Charlie, I have not
            forgotten who picked me up from a watery grave and who, I believe, has faithfully loved
            me all these years; but--"
          He drew her to his breast and sealed her lips with a kiss. He said: "There are no ifs or ands in this matter now. 'But,' you said--and
            what is it?"
          She willingly slipped up close to his side, and said: "I have vowed again, and that was
            never to love another man. But, as I come to think about it, it is not another, but the same man."
          Charlie was wild with delight. He said: "That's it Jennette,--the same little Hoosier
            girl, full of wit, and all the world to me. Will you, then, be my wife, after all, and
            go back to Virginia with me?"
          She looked up slyly and said: "I would if my school was out."
          He put his hand over her mouth and said: "Poor little Indians! I pity them, but I pity
            myself most. I have waited for you already too long; so, we will find some one to take
            your place, and we will be married and go--now, right away. No use of waiting--  something else will be in the way. But yonder comes Mrs.
            Allen and Guy; they have become tired of waiting and are coming back to see what is the
            matter. I know, if Buelah could see and know I had found you, and you had promised to be
            a mother to little Lillian, she would rejoice with me. You see, you are a mother now,
            and it is better so. We will feel that sympathetic feeling in this, one for the other,
            and the care of the children will not be a burden to either of us, Jennette."
          "No, I love children, and I shall love your little girl, even for its mother's sake;
            for she at last has been the link that has connected our lives--has she not, Charlie
            ?"
          He smiled upon her a happy, tranquil smile, and said: "Bless your little, unselfish
            heart, Jennette; I know you are an exceptionally sweet woman, and I can hardly realize
            that I have found you at last."
          Mrs. Allen, coming up, exclaimed: "Why, Jennette, look at the sun. Do you expect to get
            home before dark?"
          "Oh, I had forgotten it was growing so late. Yes. we must be going. So, rising hastily,
            Charlie caught her up as if she was a child, and placed her in the saddle, promising to
            see her the next day, which was Sunday.
        

        





        
           CHAPTER XXXIII. FOUND AT LAST.
          
            
              And when I think of other days,
              It brings this thought to view:
              I've lived and loved, I've lost and gained
              The dearest objects of my life,
              With friends both false and true.
            
          
          As they rode homeward, Jennette said her heart was too full for utterance.
          Mrs. Allen asked her why. "Are you happier by having met your old lover?" said she, "or
            has it again brought a shadow over your heart, which will prove life-long--or, in other
            words, a new shadow added to your already shadowed life?"
          "No, this meeting brings no shadows, I believe. I can see but one; and it has not yet
            crossed my path, and perhaps may never reach me."
          "What is it?" inquired her friend.
          "Well, Charlie has been a widower a year, tells me of a nice home he has, away out in
            Virginia, and asks me to share it with him. He promises me to treat Guy just as he would
            have me treat his little girl--and that is fair. And I find I love him just as of old
            and cannot tell him no."


          



          "Well, where is the shadow you see in the distance, then?"
          "Why, Mrs. Allen, he hated Guy's father so terribly, and I rejected him for such a villain; now, I fear he can never feel just right toward my
            child, and even if he should, I have an independent spirit--I want to educate my son,
            independent of any man."
          "Well, Jennette, you must not throw away the love of such a heart as that man has, for
            so small a matter; he can educate him, with one half the expense you could do it with;
            besides, you know I offered a reward for the one who found your boy. I owe you the
            reward and will pay it now, and you can use that money to send him to college. His
            school-boy days will be passed at home, in company with Lillian, when she is older, and
            that will cost you nothing. You will have enough to keep him in all he may need until he
            shall enter college; then, Jennette, he shall never lack for money to carry him
            through."
          "Oh, Mrs. Allen, your liberality is more than I deserve or could ask, and I could not
            think of such a thing."
          "Well, you just accept Dr. Hayward's proposal, and I will see that you have the other
            matters made right. He loves you devotedly, I can see that; and I want you to get the
            man you love so dearly, now, after almost giving your life for a vow
            that you kept out of regard for the wishes of your father."
          Jennette rode on in thoughtful silence, until they 
            reached the rude school house; then they fed their ponies and went into her room.
            Lighting the lamp-- for it was now dark--Mrs. Allen said: "I shall have to stay with you
            again, but, if you had not kept us waiting so long, while you talked beside that grave,
            I might have gone on and left you in solitude--which, if I am any judge, would be
            preferable to my company, to-night."
          "No! no! Mrs. Allen, you are always welcome, whereever I am. I was just thinking how
            nice it would be, if I could find Harry and your baby."
          "Oh, Jennette, do not speak of it; for it is altogether impossible to even hope for
            such a thing."
          "Why, it is no more of an improbability than I should have felt, last Sunday, if you
            had told me I should find Charlie away out here, and should be his promised wife this
            evening. So, you see, we meet with strange events all the time, and I still live and
            hope for that to come to pass. Now, I shall have you go with us to Virginia, for I shall
            not go without you."
          "No, no, Jennette, positively, no."
          "Now, why, Mrs. Allen?" I told Charlie of your past and present kindness to me and told
            him I never intended to be separated from you; and if you refuse to
            go, I shall not go, and this shall be the end of it all."
           "Oh, Jennette, you foolish child, listen to me."
          "No, Mrs. Allen, my mind is made up," and she looked so very determined that Mrs. Allen
            thought it almost useless to offer her any suggestion, but went on  at a venture, saying: "I thought if you should marry Dr. Hayward and go out
            there and live awhile alone with him, where you could have each other to yourselves--no
            one to listen while you talked about the past and laid plans for the future--it would be
            better; for I know how men are; they never like to have the third party present, when
            they talk confidentially to their wives. And then, Jennette, you will begin to feel a
            little lonely in the course of time; then write for me, and I will come."
          She looked a little softened in her expression and said: "If I thought you would be
            sure to come?"
          "Well, Jennette, did I ever fail you?"
          "No, my dearest of friends, you have ever proven true in every way, and I shall not
            doubt you now. Dr. Hayward will be here to-morrow, and we can talk this matter over. Let
            us now retire, and be up with the morning sun, so as to have all day to talk."
          Guy was sleeping soundly when they retired. Jennette slept sweetly--dreaming of Charlie
            and the valley home he had described to her.
          On awakening next morning, she said: "Mrs. Allen, do you remember my having told you
            the other morning in our ramble through the forest of a presentiment of some great
            happiness? "
          "Yes, Jennette, but I feared it would come right opposite to your feelings."
          "I didn't; I have felt, ever since, that there was great happiness in store for me, and
            this morning I am  more than ever impressed that my
            troubles are at an end." And she threw her arms around the neck of her cherished friend
            and wept for very joy.
          Mrs. Allen said: "Jennette, you have often wept tears of bitter sorrow on my breast,
            but these are tears of happiness, are they not?"
          "Yes, Mrs. Alien, they are truly tears of joy." She arose and soon had her little room
            in order, while a bouquet of fragrant prairie flowers occupied a conspicuous place in
            the room, filling the rude hut with its sweetness.
          Charlie was as anxious to be off for the cabin as Jennette was to have him come; and 9
            o'clock found him standing, tall and stately, in the door of the log hut, looking the
            very embodiment of happiness.
          Jennette met him with a bright and cheerful "Good morning."
          As he looked round the rough walls his eyes filled with tears. He took the chair she
            offered him and sat biting his lips to suppress the bitterness that seemed to well up
            from his heart. At last he spoke, and said: "Jennette, it hurts me more than I can
            express to know you were driven to such an extremity as this, my poor little girl."
          Jennette laughed one of her old happy laughs, and said: "Why, Charlie, I enjoy
            this."
          "No, no, you don't, Jennette, I can't believe it. It was all because you were so
            wretched that brought you out here to seek such a position as this."







          

          She looked sober, and said: "Yes, Charlie, it was trouble that drove
            me to seek a foreign field of labor; but I am happy now."
          He took her hands, and looking at her, said: "My own little Jen, at last, after all
            these years of suffering."
          Mrs. Allen, who at that moment stepped in, said: "Allow me to congratulate you both on
            finding each other out in this wild country. Jennette has told me so much about you that
            I feel well acquainted with you already."
          Charlie's black eyes kindled anew at the thought, and he said: "She spoke of me, then,
            did she,"--and he gave her such a tender look that she blushed and said: "Mrs. Allen,you
            must not tell any stories out of school, as the children say."
          "Well," said Charlie, "I am truly glad she often spoke of me; it helps me to believe
            that I was the one with whom she ought to have kept her vow."
          Jennette hung her head, and said: "I have learned that long ago."
          "Well, then," said Charlie feeling sorry for her, "we will forgive and forget the past,
            Jennette, and we will live for the future."
          They took a walk through the beautiful forest and talked over the olden times, and each
            claimed they had never loved any one half so well as they loved each other.
          Jennette gave him her experience with Cooper, and he said while Cooper deserved to be
            hanged, yet he  had done him a kindness,
            for if she had married him, she would have been lost to himself probably forever, and as
            it was, they were going to be happy.
          They spoke of Mrs. Allen, and Jennette told him what she had proposed to do--stay until
            she had begun to get a little lonesome; then she would come down to live with them, if
            he was willing. "She is very wealthy," said she, "and will never be any expense to any
            one."
          "Certainly," said he, "she must still be your friend, and she will be so much company
            for you when I'm gone. Otho and wife live there, and you will love her. She always reminded me of you, but I never told any one about it. She has
            your complexion and your tender nature, and they are living in the house Buelah and I
            occupied; but I have four other new houses, which we will take choice from, and fix it
            up to our notion--and oh, Jennette, is this a dream or a reality?" And he kissed her
            lips to see if it would prove a delusion and if she would vanish away.
          She laughed at him and said: "You are the same boyish Charlie, I see."
          "Yes, Jen, but I am not so empty-handed as I was when your father called me a poor,
            penniless fellow that would never have anything to go on, and you would be starved by
            me. Well, I wish he was living, to see what I am able to do for you now."
          She made no reply, and he felt as if he should not have said so much and changed the
            subject by saying:  "We will never talk of those things
            that hurt your feelings; but let us now talk of the wedding day. I told Mother Lenhart
            this morning I should take you back to Virginia with me, in a few days, as my wife. She
            wept like a child, for she said she could not spare Lillian. What do you say, Jen, shall
            we take her?"
          "Yes, by all means--she will forget you and learn to love her grandparents so much that
            she will not be happy away from them. I am sorry, very sorry for her grandma, and feel
            that she will be hurt with me, but I want the baby to grow right up in my heart, and I
            will teach her to love her dear old grandparents."
          "I know you will, Jennette, and I am glad you take this view of the matter, for it is
            just as I would have it. Well, say we are married day after to-morrow, then, and start
            immediately for Virginia."
          "Oh," said she, astonished at his words, "as soon as that!"
          "Yes, I shall not, can not, wait longer, for fear some fate may
            interfere with our plans."
          "But, Charlie, my whole heart has been set on a grand education for my son. And I want
            to mention to you that I want to do that myself. You are doing too much to forgive my
            folly, without taking upon yourself the responsibility of educating Jay Cooper's son. I
            can't have you do it."
          He placed his hand over her mouth, and said: "Don't say any more. He is your child. I
            shall love him for your sake and forget that his father is Jay Cooper.  What do you say, shall it be day after to-morrow?"
          "Well, what can I do with my school? "
          "Let the school go."
          "But I must supply the place or forfeit all the money that is coming for what I have
            done."
          "Well, let it all go."
          "No, I told mother I would send her some of it, and I must fix matters somehow. You had
            better wait until my school is out."
          "No, Jennette, I shall wait on nothing, now that I have found you."
          "Let us walk to the house and consult Mrs. Alien," said Jennette, "she always finds a
            way out of all difficulties."
          They proceeded to the house and laid before Mrs. Allen their plans, all but finding a
            teacher for the balance of the term, which would be only six more weeks. Jennette said:
            "What shall I do? Charlie wants me to start back with him as his wife, next Tuesday, and
            I must find a teacher to fill my place, or lose all I have done."
          "All right," said Mrs. Allen, "I can find you a teacher --I will fill the place myself;
            then, when school is out, I can make you a visit."
          "Capital! capital!" cried Jennette, throwing her arms around her neck, "you are the
            best old mamma to me in all this world, and I will go to-morrow and make the exchange
            with the authorities, and I will send the money home to mother."


          



          So, everything was settled, and Charlie rode home, the happiest man in all the
            west.
          Next day Jennette and her friend went to the village and had their school business all
            fixed up; Mrs. Allen returning to take her place in the school room, while Jennette made
            some little changes in a lovely white dress she had on hand. She said she had no time to
            prepare, but she wanted nothing better than that, with a bouquet of fresh prairie
            flowers, which Charlie proposed to gather as he came--for Jennette would have the
            ceremony performed in the log house. She said: "You have always called me your little
            Hoosier girl, and I want to be married to you in Hoosier fashion."
          Charlie agreed, saying he didn't care where the ceremony was performed, just so it was
            done.
          Dr. and Mrs. Lenhart came over, and at ten o'clock they were married and were driven to
            the station, to take the twelve-twenty train,
          It was sad to see little Lillian taken from the arms of her grandma, not to meet her
            again for many months, or perhaps years; but Charlie paid them well for their care, and
            said: "Every parent should have their children." And when they were aboard the train,
            with Lillian laughing, romping and pulling her papa's hair, and Guy looking on in
            childish wonder, pleased to see the pretty babe so full of fun, Charlie and Jennette
            experienced the first true happiness they had felt in all the years they had ever known
            each other. They talked, laughed and watched their children with  interest for the period of one week, eating and sleeping on board the train
            the same as if they were at home. Nothing went wrong, for their hearts and minds were at
            rest.
          Otho and Fern were surprised beyond anything that could be imagined, to know that
            Charlie had brought home a wife, but pleased to learn it was his old love-- the girl he
            had told Otho about when he asked him how a man felt when he was in love, and if he
            would claim a share of the young lady's heart, that they were going to buy from the
            Indians.
          Otho said: "I knew, then, you loved this woman better than any one else in the world,
            but never dreamed she would find you there in that wild country."
          They stayed at Otho's until they fixed up a house, just as cozy as could be possible,
            when they began house-keeping--the happiest pair in the world, so they would both tell
            you.
          Jennette fell in love with Fern at first sight. She said to Charlie, the next day after
            their arrival, "There is something about Otho's wife that keeps reminding me of Mrs.
            Allen."
          "I believe they do look and act alike, since you have mentioned it," said he.
          About three weeks had passed, when Jennette said, one day when she came over: "You
            lived in the Territory, did you not, when you were married?"
          "Yes," she replied.
          "Did you leave your parents there?"


          


          "No, my father is with me here. Didn't Charlie ever tell you my history?"
          "No," said Jennette, but she had hardly had time to reply before Charlie stepped
            in.
          Fern turned to him, and said: "Why have you never told Jennette how you bought me from
            the Indians? " and, laughing, looked to see Jennette's astonishment.
          "Well, Fern," replied Charlie, "I left that for you to do, thinking perhaps you would
            prefer telling her yourself."
          "Oh, do tell; don't keep me in suspense--bought you of the Indians, did you say?"
          "Yes," said Fern, and she began and minutely went over the details; and as she talked
            and spoke of her foster parents, Jennette began to turn pale; and she grew paler and
            paler, until Charlie spoke and said: "Jen, what is the matter?"
          She flew to his arms and said: "Oh, Charlie, Charlie, I have found Mrs. Allen's baby! I
            have found her Fern, at last!" and turning to the now astonished Fern, she said: "I know
            where your mother is this day."
          Then Fern sank down, pale and weak, too weak to say one word--only looking eagerly and
            piteously at Jennette, as much as to say, "Go on."
          "Your mother's name is Allen."
          "Yes," said Fern, "my father learned that. Oh, where is she? Let me first go and tell
            my father to come; it will be like news from heaven for him."


          

          But Charlie said: "Let me go and bring him; you are too much excited to go."
          It was but a short distance, and Mr. Fleming soon stood before them. Jennette said:
            "And is this truly Harry Fleming? "
          He answered: "It is."
          She then proceeded to tell him the story of Mrs. Allen and how soon she would be with
            them.
          He was so much overcome that he sank down by Fern, and they mingled their tears
            together.
          Jennette had never told Charlie Mrs. Allen's story, and it was new to all. But now the
            daughter and husband could not wait to see her--what should they do?
          Jennette said she would write immediately, and tell her to come, she had a great
            surprise for her. For they agreed they would not tell her, but let her find them
            out.
          Jennette told them of Mrs. Allen's unhappy life and how she had mourned for her child
            and believed in her heart that she would know her, if she should see her.
          Fern had a babe then, just six weeks old; she called it Anna, for her mother; her
            father named it. Jennette said: "I always told your mother I would find you for her,
            and, thank heaven, my prayer has been answered."

        
        


        

           CHAPTER XXXIV. THE SURPRISE AND GREAT HAPPINESS.
          
            
              Oh blissful hour of rapturous thought,
              To meet again in life
              Those we have loved and lost through fate,
              Who now, with bated breath, await
              Our coming with delight.
            
          
          When Mrs. Allen received the letter Jennette had written, she smiled and said, half
            aloud: "Lonesome already, I presume, and takes this plan to hasten my coming. Well, I've
            only one more week of school, and I want to see her as badly as she does me, no doubt--
            and then I shall go."
          So she sat right down and wrote a tender letter to Jennette and told her to keep her
            surprise on hand, for one more week would find her on the road to her house, in the
            lovely valley she spoke of. She expressed herself as feeling rather loth to enter again
            the state where all she had ever loved had been taken from her. "Yet, I know it is
            foolish to feel so toward a place or country, and I will put this feeling away and come.
            I will be there in twelve or thirteen days." And closing the letter, she mailed it.
          Its coming was anxiously awaited by all her friends.


          


          Harry Fleming cried like a broken-hearted child, when he held the letter in his hand.
            "Yes," he said, "that is Anna's handwriting, but I feel as if I was dreaming, and when I
            awake, it will be only disappointment added to wretchedness."
          The days seemed long to Fern and her father. But at last the day arrived for which they
            had so restlessly waited--the evening train was to bring her. Mr. Fleming and Fern said
            they felt as if they could not meet her at the depot, but would wait at Charlie's house
            until he and Jennette brought her there.
          It was a beautiful evening, the sun had just a few more minutes to shine above the
            grand old mountain top, and nature was presenting a picturesque scene, when Mrs. Allen
            stepped upon the platform, to find herself enveloped in Jennette's arms. In walking
            toward Charlie's happy home, she said: "I presume your surprise is ready, Jennette." And
            she looked at Charlie and smiled a little roguishly and inquired if he had seen anything
            of it about the house.
          He looked at Jennette, hardly knowing what to say, but replied: "I think you'll find it
            there."
          When they reached the door, Jennette said: "Walk in. Here are Otho and his wife and her
            father."
          She glanced at them, bowed and began taking off her bonnet and gloves; for, she said,
            she was so worn out, she wanted to fix herself to rest, as quickly as possible. She
            adjusted her dress, fixed her collar before the glass, then said: "Now for your
            surprise, Jennette."


          


          Jennette glanced toward Mr. Fleming and beckoned him forward. He arose pale as a
            corpse, trembling in every limb.
          She then said: "Mrs. Allen, here is the surprise I have in store for you. Look at this
            old gentleman and this young woman; see if you recognize any traces of old acquaintance
            about them."
          For the first time, she looked Harry in the face. She stood for a moment gazing at him,
            then with a low, pitiful wail, she fell to the floor in a dead faint.
          He stooped and gathered her to his breast, while Fern knelt by her and kissed her pale,
            speechless lips over and over again. Charlie got a restorative and applied it quickly,
            telling them to give her air and bring some water.
          Jennette brought a goblet of water, and she was soon able to speak.
          Looking up, she burst into tears, and said: "Is this really Harry Fleming?"
          "Yes, Anna, my dear, dear Anna!" he murmured, holding her close to
            his heart, while Fern sat by in tears. Jennette stooped over her and said: "Haven't I
            always told you I would find Harry and Fern?"
          "Yes, but where is Fern?"
          "This is her," Jennette replied.
          She sprang up, clasped her in her arms and wept and laughed alternately. She could not
            stand on her feet, she was so overcome with joy. She would look first at Harry, then at
            her daughter, then burst out  crying and sobbing. At last
            she said: "This is too much joy for me! I do not know what to do with such a
            surprise."
          Jennette came then with baby Anna, and said: "You know I told you perhaps you would
            find daughter and grand-daughter both, and see, you have."
          She took the wee baby in her arms and covered its little face with kisses, and washed
            it with her tears, until Fern said: "Dear mother, let me take the baby and you try to
            rest."
          Jennette said: "Mrs. Allen, here is a lounge, walk in here, if you can, and you and
            your husband talk over the past, while I prepare tea."
          Harry Fleming put his arm around her waist and helped her to the seat in the parlor;
            while Fern walked by her holding her hand.
          He drew her head to his breast and said: "Rest here, as you used to in the long ago,
            Anna, while I tell you all my weary life, since last we met. And Fern can sit on this
            ottoman at our feet." They began at the beginning and talked as if they had been silent
            so long that to talk was greater bliss than anything else on earth could be. Fern
            learned how they had loved, how cruelly her father had been wronged and how desper-
            desperately her mother had suffered and how she had yearned for her all these years.
          Fern laid her head in her mother's lap, and said: "Oh, how I've longed for this hour,
            when my mother  could hold my head upon her knee and
            stroke my hair and call me her child."
          Mrs. Allen bowed down, kissed her over and over again, and said: "Harry, isn't she like
            I was at her age?"
          Then Mr. Fleming told her he saw the likeness when she waited on him after he was hurt
            and Fern told her long tale of suffering.
          Tea was ready and they were summoned again and again, but they all refused to eat,
            preferring rather to learn more of each other.
          Jennette brought in a tray of tea and urged them to drink, at least, some stimulant, to
            keep them from tiring out. "Now," she said, "you must remember the remainder of your
            lives are before you, in which to talk, and how useless it is to kill yourselves at
            once."
          But they refused to be separated until a late hour, and before retiring, Harry Fleming
            had asked the wife of his youth to have another ceremony performed the next day.
          Mrs. Allen consented, telling him she had enough money to keep them independently the
            remainder of their lives--at this place, or any place they had a mind to go to. But she
            said Fern must go wherever she went, for she must never be separated from her again.
          The next day all the relatives were assembled in the neat parlor of Fern's own house,
            and they were again made man and wife.
          Jennette was so unutterably happy that she kissed  the
            bride and groom both, and said: "We will all leave old Virginia some time soon, and I
            will show the folks back in Indiana how complete our victories are over wrong and all
            opposition, Mrs. Fleming."
          She addressed her by her new name, laughing the while, saying: "You will never seem
            just like the same woman to me again."
          Her countenance had already changed from the expression of inward suffering and grief
            to such a bright glowing one, that name and face both seemed new to Jennette, yet she
            was happy to know that she had been instrumental in uniting the long separated family,
            that they might pass the remainder of their lives together.
          They talked over their future plans. Fern would not hear of their leaving her house.
            Otho said: "Stay together; for you can never make up those years of painful
            separation--go where you will, or stay where you may."
          Jennette and Charlie began talking of the old Hoosier state and how they would love to
            go back. He asked her if she wouldn't like to see the old river and its hills once more
            and look upon the spot where he picked her up--a half-drowned little girl.
          "Oh," she said, "I think that would be the crowning happiness of my life."
          "Well," said he, "you shall go. There is nothing that shall be withheld. Lillian can
            run every place and Guy enjoys traveling. I shall get rid of all my  property, and we shall go back and show the folks at home that we have
            conquered."
          She threw her arms around his neck and said: "Dear Charlie, kindest of husbands and
            best of men, I am satisfied with you in any place, or under any circumstances; yet to
            visit old places together would be blissful, indeed--and we will go."
          So, in a few weeks, all his property was sold, and everything was turned into money.
            Jennette had all her travelling clothes ready and declared that no one had a nicer
            little girl and boy than she--there was no difference shown in the children, nor any
            felt.
          The rest of the happy folks resolved to remain until Charlie got settled in some
            northern town, and then they would come and live close by, for they all wanted to get to
            a more enterprising state, when all was ready.
          Charlie and Jennette, with their two children, went back to visit her mother, who had
            written that she was overjoyed to know that she had at last married the man of her own
            choice, and pleased to know that he was worth so much money and was such a successful
            physician.

          They arrived at her mother's house after a long, weary journey, Charlie feeling loth to
            go where he was once forbidden, but where money could recommend him at last as a
            gentleman. Yet, he said, "For Jennette's sake, I will go anywhere, or any place."
          The little village of B--- was all excitement over Jennette's good fortune, they having
            heard that Charlie  had become a wealthy man. The old
            neighbors called upon her, all smiles and graces; parties were talked of and receptions
            given, and Jennette was the one above all others accounted worthy to be among them.
          Flora Arlington had married a man not very highly esteemed, and, he dying and leaving
            her a widow with two children, she was poor and had to work hard for a living. When she
            looked upon Jennette's happy face --once so wretched--she acknowledged to herself that
            true worth would receive the reward at last. She knew that none had been so ready to
            talk and sing the bad news that used to be sent to B--- from poor, suffering Jennette's
            enemies, as herself. For then she was free and expected to make a splendid match, but
            failing, she now occupied the lower seat, while Jennette had taken the upper one.
          Yet, Jennette went to see her, pitied her and gave her little girls each five dollars
            in gold. She told them that was to remind them of their auntie, Jennette Hayward. Flora
            felt very much humbled, but Jennette was the same tender-hearted little woman that she
            ever was.
          One day Charlie said: "Let's take the children and I will get a carriage and we will go
            to see the hut of old Uncle Joe--if it is still standing."
          Mrs. Browning said: "Yes, it is just as it was when he left it. No one has ever touched
            it, nothing has been changed, nor has any one ever occupied it."
          Charlie soon had a buggy at the gate, and they  started,
            Jennette rehearsing for the hundredth time the story of the fatal drive she and Angella
            had taken over the same road once. She felt herself grow weak when she looked upon the
            spot where she had seen poor old Joe fall under the horses' feet. She said that,
            indirectly, Jay Cooper was at the bottom of that, for he assured her his ponies were
            perfectly safe.
          Charlie said: "He was at the bottom of nearly all the trouble you have ever had; but
            now, he dare not ever give you another sorrow--not one, my little wife, for I am here to
            say no."
          "No, Charlie, I have no fears for myself, now; it is your life I would be uneasy for,
            should he ever get back."
          "Never fear, Jennette, I have faced too many cannon balls, to cow before a little
            villain like Cooper. But don't you want to get out and go into the hut? "
          "Yes, let us go in and look around and call up all the dear memories."
          "We will, if you wish," said he, and he helped them out, fastened his horse, and they
            went in. There stood the old loom and the shuttles and the rickety old bedstead.
            Jennette sat down upon the loom-bench, where she had perched herself so often in
            childhood and talked to please Uncle Joe, and burst into tears. She said: "Charlie, do
            you remember our last meeting here?"
          "Yes," he said, with tears in his eyes, "poor old Joe 
            had a good heart and loved you next to myself, Jennette."
          "I know it, Charlie, and I wish I could pick up something he used to use, for a
            keep-sake. Oh, I'll take a shuttle," said Jennette.
          "That will do," said he, "and you can fix some fancy work about it, as you do about
            almost everything you get your fingers on, and keep it always."
          "That I will do; but let us sit down on this old step, where he and I sat the last time
            we ever talked."
          They sat down, Jennette holding little Lillian, while Guy stood by her side. She said:
            "I remember all he said to me that morning he told me he would die soon: that he
            sometimes fancied he could hear the angels calling him, away in the small hours of the
            night, and when I cried, he tried to comfort me. Oh, yes, there is one thing I had
            forgotten, that I never would have thought of again; and that is that he wanted you and
            me to have all he was worth when we got married."
          Charlie laughed and said: "Well, you have the shuttle; must I take the loom?"
          Rising, Jennette said: "No, but Charlie, do you see that large tree right before us
            yonder?"
          "Yes, but what does that signify ?"
          "Why, he told me, that morning, that he had a box buried at the root of that tree,
            containing all the money he had saved for years: and when I married you, you were to
            raise it with your own hands; no one else was ever to touch it; and if I married Jay
            Cooper, I was to  let it alone. Strange to say, I've never
            thought of it before, in all these years."
          "Well, well, Jennette, we will look around for a spade, and I will see just what is in
            the box--if it has not been found by some one else."
          So saying, he went to a neighbor's house near by, got a spade and went to work; soon he
            struck something like iron, about a foot square, and on lifting it up, he found it to be
            very heavy--all he wanted to lift from its hiding place. He pressed a spring on the top,
            and the lid came open, disclosing nearly four thousand dollars in gold. "Why, Jennette,"
            said Charlie, "you are rich. Who would have believed that the old man ever made so much
            money? "
          "Why, Charlie, he worked all the time; never lost a single day that I ever knew of, and
            lived poor as poverty."
          "Look here, Jennette, here is a note in the box, among the gold--it is for you."
          She opened and read the poorly written, poorly spelled words: 
              
                


                   My dear little Jennette Browning,
                  this is all yours, honey; I've saved it for you, deary, and want you and
                    Charlie Hayward to use it, it will give him a start, and that will satisfy your
                    old father. If any one disputes your right to this, honey, let 'em see this here
                    note.
                  
                     YOUR LOVIN OLD
                        UNCLE JOE.
                
              
            



          Jennette kissed the note and wept again, reading it over and over. She said it seemed
            as if he were speaking from the grave.


          





          Charlie put the box in the buggy, and they went back to Mrs. Browning's house, to
            astonish her and Minnie at the discovery.
          Her mother said: "You ought to have thought of it when you used to work so hard; it
            would have helped you then--you don't need it now."
          "No, mother, but you do, and then, no one but Charlie was to lift it from its
            place."
          Her mother looked perplexed, and said: "It is not mine to use."
          "Well," said Jennette, "it is mine, and here is a note to that effect."
          She read it, and said: "How much like Uncle Joe that sounds."
          "Now, mother, I shall have a nice monument placed at the head of his grave, with a
            cross on it--for he was a true Catholic--and he shall have his emblem at his head."
          "Jennette," said her mother, "he has a plain slab, and that is enough."
          "No, mother, his generosity to me demands the same; besides, I loved him as dearly as a
            child could love any one. And even when I became a young lady, I still
            looked upon him as my best friend, and now he shall have a nice monument. And as I am
            somewhat given to poetry, I shall have an epitaph engraved on it worthy of my dear old
            friend."
          Jennette would have liked very much to have gone to other places, but callers came
            pouring in so thick  and fast that she had no time for
            anything but to entertain them.
          She said to her mother: "Do you remember under what depression of spirits I left this
            house some months ago--how some of the ones that pay me the most deference now used me
            as if I was worse than a street sweeper. How they have changed is plain to be seen They
            think I have a brave and noble husband now-- which I have, and one that does not care
            for their frowns or their smiles, and they know it. Now they are ready to do me great
            favors, when I care nothing for them, while at one time a kind word or a warm grasp of
            the hand from them would have lifted a great load from my heart and made life more easy
            to bear, when I was crushed with a world of grief."
          Her mother said: "Jennette, when you passed out of the house that time, I felt as
            though it was forever."
          "So did I, mother, and it was forever, for that spirit and mind that possessed me that
            day. I do not come back to you as the poor, down-trodden Jennette Browning, but the
            honored Mrs. Hayward; yet, I am no better. I have never changed my purposes in all these
            years. In the very darkest hours, when the last ray of hope stood flickering before me,
            I always reached up for the hidden hand, and ever had extended to me just grace and
            light enough for one step more,--and thus I groped my way, neglected, forsaken,
            seemingly unloved and forgotten. But, nothwithstanding I trusted God in the darkest
            hours, I distrusted Him also, when things  did not come
            around just as I had asked Him to have them. But when I found Charlie and learned that
            his love had remained the same, I could look back then, and see the Master had only
            caused a willful child to pass under the rod, and that He truly loveth those whom He
            chasteneth."
          Mrs. Browning could only shed tears of remorse. Her lips were sealed, for her child had
            conquered all difficulties alone and single-handed, and was now ready to give her money,
            love, care and the tender forgiveness that no other heart but Jennette's could
            offer.
          Some time had passed, when the monument came, with Jennette's own tender epitaph on it,
            the words as they came from her heart, we give here:  To those whom
              he loved, alone he has gone, Across the cold shadowy river, Leaving only one friend to
              mourn his sad loss; But he's gone from her, now and forever.
          Jennette had the monument erected at his head, and there was no finer one in that
            county. She felt that she had only done her duty, and was now ready to go back to the
            old Ohio river and visit the old familiar haunts of her childhood.
          She gave her mother two thousand dollars of the new found treasure, and said she would
            keep the remainder to finish Guy's collegiate course, Charlie refusing to use any of
            it.
          He said Jennette had been the joy of the old man's heart, and it was left for her, and
            he didn't need it;  therefore whatever use she had a mind
            to put it to was for her to determine.
          All preparations were made to start for the river, when Mrs. Browning was struck down
            with paralysis-- living only nine days.
          She could talk but little, for her tongue was paralyzed. Yet, she asked Jennette's full
            forgiveness.
          Jennette sank down by the bed and took her hands saying: "Mother, my own dear
            mother--no name so sacred, no word so full of tender meaning--I have nothing to forgive,
            believing you have always acted with pure motives and to the best of your judgment for
            my welfare. I can say, 'go in peace,' Jennette will strive to meet you where no sorrow
            ever comes. So, now, farewell, best of earthly friends."
          She kissed the lips of that dying mother, who, while she loved her child, had often
            added severe heart-aches to wretchedness by her words of coldness, when Jennette's poor
            young heart was wounded and bleeding-- yet not one word of retaliation then.
          The mother nestled close to the bosom of her baby daughter and passed away, as one who
            craved to cling to the one whom she knew she had wronged, hoping to leave a balm with
            her dying breath that would heal every wound she had caused during life.
          Ferrell was again called home, to join the other members of the family in performing
            the last sad rites at the funeral of their mother--for she who had given them birth had
            now gone to her reward; that mother  who had sung the
            lullaby and kissed away the childish tears, was no more on earth; the hands that had
            ministered to all their wants in childhood's years were folded over the heart that
            throbbed no more at their coming, and rejoiced no more at their happiness; neither would
            it grieve any more at their sorrows, for it was stilled forever.
          The deeply grieved family followed the remains to the family graveyard and saw them
            interred by their father's side.
          Father, mother and brother, all lying side by side! Jennette felt it in her heart to
            thank God, as she looked at the graves, that she was a loved and cherished wife now; for
            how desolate she would feel, had she to go out alone in the world, friendless, without
            father, mother or brother to lean upon for protection.
          After a monument, which was purchased out of her hidden treasure, was placed at the
            head of her mother's grave, they closed the old home and Minnie went to the school she
            was preceptress of, Ferrell returning to her northern home.
          Jennette and Charlie visited the old river hills, first stopping for a few days among
            friends in Logansport, where they learned from Blackburn's sister that he had never
            married and was still in the west, in the Hawkeye state, a minister of the gospel. Never
            having forgotten the blow of Jennette's refusal, he had resolved on a life of celibacy,
            and seemed satisfied with a single state. Jennette laughingly exclaimed: "Oh,  how funny one should remain a bachelor on account of a
            little, homely woman like myself. I shall send him a nice present one of these days to
            remind him that I am still living, and much happier than he ever knew me to be, and also
            to assure him that he with all his past kindnesses, has never been forgotten nor
            unappreciated by me. I will tell him time had added no beauty to my features and that
            there are plenty of good fish in the river yet.
          In the course of a little time Jennette said she would order for Mr. Blackburn as nice
            a Bible as could be obtained. Charlie said: "Let me have charge of this business, for I
            owe that gentleman a debt of gratitude myself. So he went to Indianapolis and soon, by
            special order, received a Bible finely bound in best Russian leather with gold clasps
            and tips, the finish of it being of the most perfect and complete. Jennette presented it
            with the following lines:
          
            
              Once, while drifting o'er dark billows,
              Waves ran high and threatened death.
              Thus engulfed, began I doubting,
              Doubting heaven, my promised wealth.
            
            
              But the God who often chastens,
              Called me to look up and live;
              Sought I then again this treasure,
              Precious Bible that He gave.
            
            
              Now I live in all its sunlight,
              Basks my soul in love divine.
              No more doubting man or Saviour--
              Precious treasure, Bible mine.
            
          
          In the course of time, Mr. Blackburn replied that he had received their most valued
            present, and was overjoyed to learn Jennette's good fortune, assuring  her that from this time on he would feel a new interest in
            life.
          Not long after receiving Mr. Blackburn's letter, Jennette heard that Mr. Calkins had
            recently married a young lady of great beauty, and that he was figuring in the political
            world and had good prospects for becoming a congressman; yet he never forgot his little
            Hoosier acquaintance.
          After a protracted visit at the old home, Charlie and Jennette left there for her
            cousin Angella's home near the river side. Angella was promising fair to be an old maid;
            she said she would marry the man she loved best, or none at all.
          All the old haunts were visited; every nook and corner where Jennette had played with
            Dolph and rowed in a boat. The spot where Charlie had picked her up was visited with
            great interest. Jennette said the hills didn't seem half so high, nor the river half so
            wide; yet she knew they were the same, and they were hallowed to her memory. She felt
            badly when she learned her old playmate and friend, Dolph, had been killed, since the
            war, in a drunken row.
        


        
        

           CHAPTER XXXV. DR. AND MRS. HAYWARD IN THEIR NEW HOME.
          
            
              Thoughts of other days come stealing
              O'er my spirit, as some dream,
              Half forgetting all its shadows,
              In the present glowing pleasures
              That come flowing like a stream.
            
          
          Now, in conclusion, dear reader, we will give you a description of Charlie Hayward and
            Jennette, as they now live.
          In one of the principal cities of southern Indiana, on the old Ohio and less than a
            day's drive from the place where he once rescued a little fairy--his now idolized
            wife,--you will now find him in his beautiful home. He is now a physician of great worth
            as a practitioner, and as a financier, has made rapid strides toward wealth.
          Guy has grown to be a young man of twenty-three years, a graduate of Ann Arbor and at
            this time just beginning the practice of law, with flattering prospects of success.
          Lillian is a young lady of seventeen, accomplished in music and books, with all her
            mother's tenderness. 
            

              DR. HAYWARD'S COUNTRY HOME.




            
            
             But we fear the cheek that looks so blooming now,
            inherits the hectic flush of her mother, and in time will steal her from us, but we live
            in hopes that this may not be. She looks upon Jennette as her own mother, although she
            has taught her that her mother died and left her when a wee babe, and that she was good
            and true and worthy of all the love that could be bestowed upon her memory. Yet, Lillian
            says she could not possibly have been any more kind or any more dear than her little
            mamma Jennette.
          Guy says he has the very best of stepfathers, he never having given him an unkind word
            in his life, and he thinks there are none like him in existence. His own father having
            been to him so unnatural, he shudders to think of him, for it only brings to mind lonely
            hours of grief and fear, and dark caves with little feet tied down with a rope; but his
            best days began to dawn, he says, when his mother found him, cut that cord and made him
            free.
          Perhaps the reader would like to know what became of that villain, Cooper? He came back
            to this country, found Charlie had secured his prize, and not daring ever further to
            molest them, married a woman well suited to him. They have had six children; and he, in
            the days of his recklessness, having gone through all the property he fall heir to, is
            now in the last stages of consumption, with no means of support--his wife washing to
            support the family of dirty, uncouth children, that unfortunately have come into this
            world with  little prospects of its being bettered by
            their having been born. Yet, we must say to Cooper's credit that he ever declares that
            Jennette is one of the best women the world ever knew and that he has brought all his
            own suffering upon himself, and expresses regret for the first wrong step he ever took
            to injure her.
          Harry Fleming and wife, after spending several blissful years, settled down and passed
            the remaining few years of their lives near Jennette, dying within a fortnight of each
            other, in sweet resignation to Him who shapes our lives and controls our destinies.
          Otto and Fern live in the city, but a short distance from the city residence of Dr.
            Hayward, and seem to enjoy life as well, and live as happily, as if he had found her in
            the midst of the best society, instead of having purchased her of an old Indian with
            ponies and furs. He says she seems all the dearer to him for thus having been rescued
            from a life of drudgery among the Indians.
          Dr. and Mrs. Lenhart have left Indian Territory and have a home near their children and
            grand children, where a happy old age is being enjoyed, as the fruits of an upright and
            charitable life.
          Glen Lenhart married a sweet young girl, and now the happy family are all near each
            other, having brought Buelah's remains and placed them in a vault in the beautiful
            cemetery that can be seen from the city, and where they all expect some day to lie by
            her side.


          

          Charlie and Jennette's wedded life has been crowned with two children, a boy and a
            girl, aged respectively ten and twelve years, who bid fair to prove great blessings.
          Minnie Browning is now living with them, an old maid; but she says no one could have a
            better home.
          They have a beautiful mansion in the country, for a summer resort, and when summer
            comes and they go to dwell among the birds and flowers, Jennette says she is afraid she
            will forget heaven; for her life is so peaceful, so calm, so much like the sunshine
            after a storm, that she can hardly realize that this blissful dream will some time be
            broken. Again, as she looks over the fields of waving grain, she tells Charlie, her
            faithful and truly devoted husband, that when the earth is made new, and they can walk,
            hand in hand, through fields of everlasting light and cull immortal flowers, she will
            then feel that true integrity is worth all it costs us, though it sometimes costs us
            bitter, heart-burning tears. She says she speaks from experience, knowing that our names
            may be cast out as evil, and we at times be led to walk through the valley of
            humiliation and made to pass under the afflicting hand and chastening rod; yet, may a
            happy old age crown our lives, and the blessed assurance of an abundant entrance into a
            world where sorrow can never come, is our prayer always; being true to ourselves,
            determined to preserve our honor untarnished, if known only to ourselves.


          



          Charlie replies that it will eventually be found out; for true worth never dies. "And
            true womanhood, Jennette, will come off more than conqueror, as you have, dear. I know
            that among Indiana's noble daughters, there is none more worthy than yourself, none that
            have stood fiercer storms and braved greater dangers; and now, as silver hairs begin to
            appear among the gold, you are just as dear to me, and I shall love you when I am old,
            and very old, if I should reach that time in life."
          Lovingly, and in her same old child-like fashion, she throws her arms around his neck
            and says: "Yes, Charlie, although snow-flakes have been scattered through your hair by
            time's busy fingers, you are just as dear to me as when Uncle Joe let us hold our
            clandestine meetings under his roof. Now, while our two children, Carrie and John, are
            at school, we are here to welcome them home day by day--looking forward to their manhood
            and womanhood, as we, in the past, looked forward to that of Lillian and Guy. But,
            Charlie, I could not love them any better than I have loved Lillian, nor you love Guy
            any more, if you were his father."
          He clasped her to his breast, exclaiming: "Little wife, you are a treasure."
          Reader, to-day, Jennette's door stands open to the poor. The unfortunate seek after her
            kindness and the wicked never become so wrecked that they will not listen to her tender
            words of warning. Her house is a  shelter for all those
            who have been driven out by unkindness. And it is also the pleasant resort of the best
            people in America--and why?
          Charlie will tell you, it is because she was ever true to herself, and he calls her,
            "Jennette, the victorious little Hoosier girl."



          THE END.

        
        






        






      

    

  
