
     ----CITATION---- 
        Sewall, May Wright, 1844-1920.. The domestic and social effects of the higher education of
                    women. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1846
     ----FULL TEXT----
        

        

            
            
                

                    THE DOMESTIC AND SOCIAL EFFECTS
                        OF THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF WOMEN.

                    
                        Read before the Western Association of Collegiate
                            Alumnӕ, at Ann Arbor, Mich., Dec. 10, 1887.
                    

                
                BY
                    MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
                    (Northwestern University)
                    Principal of the Girls' Classical School, Indianapolis,
                        Ind.
                

            

            
        

        

            

                




                The Higher Education.


                The phrase "higher education," as used in the title of this essay, is synonymous
                    with the phrase "liberal education" as currently employed; and it is significant
                    that, in order to indicate that a man and a woman have been subjected to certain
                    educational processes, and that they have attained a certain cultivation,
                    similar, perhaps identical in both character and extent, society predicates
                    "higher" education of the woman and "liberal" education of the man.
                Is it whimsical to see in these different phrases society's effort (no, not
                    effort, since it is unconscious, and effort implies consciousness, but society's
                    tendency) to connect with the same thing two different ideas?
                Is it whimsical to see in these different forms of expression society's
                    unconscious expedient for constantly reminding us of its conviction that college
                    training does in a manner, and to some felt degree, set the woman possessing it
                    apart from women as a class?
                Is it more than whimsical--is it perverse--to see in the current practical
                    limitation of the phrase "higher education" to the college training of women,
                    society's device for evading a confession of the probable effects upon women of
                    such training?
                The essence of whole systems of philosophy is condensed into phrases, and the
                    phrase "liberal education," used as a synonym for college training, is society's
                    perpetual proclamation of the truth that only through universal culture can
                    individual man be delivered from self-conceit on the one hand and from tradition
                    on the other--those two despots, who, although they are essentially hostile to
                    each other, have always united to enslave the soul. The term "liberal education"
                         thus used implies that the tuition and the life
                    of the college will afford the student a liberalizing or a liberating
                    experience, and, as men deem liberty or freedom desirable for man, the mere
                    designation of college training as "liberal education" implies an argument for
                    sending a young man to college.
                On the other hand, abstract or intellectual liberty, and the application of such
                    liberty to the concrete, practical details of life have been regarded alike as
                    of questionable benefit to women; and those most deeply interested in the
                    development and culture of women have abstained instinctively from speaking of
                    the college training of women as "liberal education," lest the phrase,
                    misunderstood, should withhold young women from college culture rather than
                    impel them to it.
                As a fact, many a man and many a woman has a college degree who has no liberal
                    culture, and, on the other hand, there are both men and women of fine culture,
                    of thorough and generous education, of liberated minds, who have never been in a
                    college recitation room nor listened to a university lecture.
                In reality, however, in popular speech, "higher education" means "college
                    education" and "college education" means "liberal education," and the subject
                    before us resolves itself into an inquiry concerning the manner and the degree
                    to which the intellectual liberty of women will modify the home and society,
                    those two institutions which modern life so generally relegates to the control
                    of women.
                A statement of the dates at which the institutions whose alumni are eligible to
                    membership in this Association were respectively founded or were opened to women
                    will show that the subject before us must be discussed largely through inference
                    and analogy.

                
                    Oberlin College, 1833.
                    Northwestern University, 1855.
                    Vassar College, 1865.
                    Kansas University, 1866.

                    

                    Michigan University, 1870.
                    Syracuse University, 1871.
                    Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1871.
                    Wesleyan College, 1871.
                    Cornell University, 1872.
                    University of Wisconsin, 1872.
                    Boston University, 1873.
                    University of California, 1874.
                    Wellesley College, 1875.
                    Smith College, 1875.
                
                The arguments which, up to dates so recent, deprived women of liberal and polite
                    culture were based, almost without exception, upon the assumption that such
                    culture would give women a distaste for the pleasures of domestic life, and
                    would disqualify them for their duties in both the family and society. Such
                    fears would be more pardonable and, indeed, more intelligible, had the domestic
                    and social life of what may be termed woman's pre-educational era been ideal,
                    since perfection must always regard any impending change with suspicion, perhaps
                    with terror.
                But, whether one consult history, fiction, poetry, painting, caricature, letters,
                    diaries or proverbs, one is constrained by all contemporary testimony to
                    believe, that in the pre-educational era both the family and the community were
                    wont to be torn by the dissensions which spring from vanity, jealousy, envy and
                    narrow-mindedness. When Pope tells us that his purpose in writing "The Rape of
                    the Lock" was to laugh at "the little unguarded follies of the female sex," any
                    member of the sex may join in the poet's laugh. But, when Dr. Johnson,
                    commenting upon this poem, commends the poet's avowed purpose in producing it as
                    superior to Boileau's purpose in writing "Lutrin," which was "to expose the
                    pride and discord of the clergy," the woman's laugh will be checked by surprise;
                    and when the crusty old philosopher adds that "the freaks and humors, and spleen
                    and vanity of women, as they embroil families in discord and fill homes with
                    disquiet, do more to obstruct the happiness of life in a year than the  ambition of the clergy in many centuries," surprise
                    may warm into resentment, but resentment will cool into reflection, and
                    reflection, aided by observation, will perhaps endorse the unflattering
                    comment.
                The uninformed mind feeds upon itself, and upon this food vanity and
                    sensitiveness thrive.
                The narrow mind exaggerates trifles and belittles the significant; to it the
                    mole-hill seems a mountain, and, since it has no sense of perspective, to it the
                    mountain seems but a plain.
                Even yet the claims of the "higher education" are not so firmly established that
                    young women who are candidates for it may not expect to hear its effects upon
                    their matrimonial prospects discussed with gravity, in tones modulated by hon-
                    est anxiety; among timid members of conservative circles there is still a
                    lingering fear that the successful pursuit of college study is inimical to
                    "softness and sweet domestic grace." People in general, however, no longer
                    believe that a woman's charm decreases as her culture increases. But granting
                    that the higher education does not tend to diminish a woman's attractiveness,
                    and that it does not lessen her domestic value, it can not be denied that it
                    does modify her own attitude toward matrimony, and that to this degree it does
                    affect her matrimonial prospects. Culture exerts a two-fold tendency to make
                    women independent of marriage: By enlarging their ability to do useful work and
                    to become self-supporting, it removes them farther from the temptation to marry
                    for a maintenance, and by quickening and multiplying their sources of internal
                    pleasure and of private occupation, it elevates marriage from being women's sole
                    possible pursuit and vocation to being one of several accessible means to
                    congenial employment and honorable happiness.
                In his work entitled "Hereditary Genius," Francis Galton tells us that his
                    researches in family history reveal the fact that the daughters and sisters of
                    men of distinguished ability and of unusual attainments, as a rule, postpone
                    marriage later than do women whose male relatives are of mediocre talent and of
                         ordinary acquirements, and that in the same
                    proportion do women who are nearly related to men of genius abstain altogether
                    from marriage. Mr. Galton explains these ascertained facts on the plausible
                    ground that men of superior abilities and acquirements, afford the women of
                    their households a freedom and companionship in comparison with which an
                    ordinary settlement presents few temptations.
                In the same way, the higher education lifts the woman possessing it into
                    companionship with the lofty minds of all ages, makes a thousand pleasures
                    accessible to her that are unknown and unappreciated by the uneducated woman,
                    and creates for her suitor many rivals.
                The matrimonial prospects, which will compel a woman to turn from a celibate
                    life. graced by independence, congenial employment and content, must be vastly
                    superior to such as would be sufficient to lure from maiden loneliness another
                    woman whose social code is "disgrace or matrimony," or one to whom life presents
                    as alternatives "starvation or a husband."
                In the preceding paragraphs there is an implication that the higher education
                    will temporarily diminish the number of marriages. This, however, is doubtful;
                    for, while it offers to women motives outside of marriage, it, on the other
                    hand, lifts from men the pressure of burdensome conditions which at present tend
                    to hold them from matrimony. Unreasonable expectations concerning equipage,
                    household appointments and dress, and vulgar extravagance in habits of living
                    are not products of the higher education, nor are they found frequently
                    associated with it in women.
                But, whatever its effect upon the number of marriages, the higher education must,
                    through modifying woman's own attitude toward matrimony, tend to make actual
                    marriage approximate more closely ideal marriage. Ideal marriage is the union of
                    one man and one woman who, being equally independent, are equally and
                    reciprocally dependent.
                Woman can become as independent of man, as man is of her, only through becoming
                    self-sustaining, and she becomes self-sustaining only as she becomes educated,
                    and as society  becomes sufficiently enlightened to
                    permit her to use her educated faculties; it is therefore probable that the
                    first noticeable effect of the higher education upon domestic life is that it
                    tends to elevate actual marriage by equalizing between the parties to it the
                    sacrifices and the gains incident to the marriage relation. Other domestic and
                    social effects of the higher education must be sought in the homes whose
                    mistresses are college bred, and in the circles which such homes influence.
                One may not deduce a law from instances, but one may from instances infer a
                    tendency. It is my observation that college bred women usually have some
                    philosophy of life; that they not only talk of hygienic law and sanitary
                    conditions but that they make intelligent efforts to secure such conditions and
                    to establish such laws in their own households. The obvious influence of the
                    higher education in nurseries and kitchens is to deliver them from the blind
                    tyranny of tradition, instinct and intuition. Instinctive cookery has slain its
                    thousands through dyspepsia, headaches and liver-complaints, while the results
                    of intuitive child-care may be read in the impartial tables of the statistician,
                    which show that twenty per cent of all children die before the end of their
                    fifth year.
                No statistician has yet ascertained what percentage of children have college bred
                    mothers, or what is the relative percentage of mortality among such children;
                    but incomplete, though honest, and what may be termed representative, statis-
                    tics, concerning the health of college bred women and the health of the children
                    of college bred women, have already been collected under the auspices of the
                    Association for Collegiate Alumnӕ which make a very gratifying showing.
                Again, we may infer from the voluntary work of a body of women the tendency of at
                    least a majority of the individuals composing it; and a part of the work of the
                    Association of Collegiate Alumnӕ during the past year has been to investigate,
                    report and discuss the sanitary provisions and conditions of certain large
                    cities; to study different systems of water-supply, sewerage and drainage; to
                    familiarize its members with the theories concerning ventilation and with the
                         different expedients of science and mechanics
                    for securing means of ventilation in residences and public buildings.
                What could be more practical than such inquiries? What could more forcibly
                    illustrate the domestic influence of the higher education?
                The higher education takes domestic problems from the atmosphere of gossip, where
                    they are never solved, but only stated, and usually stated insincerely,
                    petulantly or mockingly, and lifts them into the clearer air of scientific and
                    philosophic inquiry. The higher education does not divert the attention of women
                    from domestic problems, but it concentrates their attention upon seeking
                    solutions. The difference between the attitudes of the liberally educated and
                    the non-educated woman toward domestic annoyances and perplexities may be thus
                    stated: The latter treats them as inevitable, as the results of circumstances
                    which she can neither direct nor modify, and hence, silently or wailingly,
                    according to her nature, she endures smoky chimneys, damp cellars, defective
                    plumbing, a vitiated atmosphere, unwisely selected, adulterated and poorly
                    cooked food, ailing children and incompetent service, as if each of these trials
                    was a resistless fate; the former is the mistress, instead of the victim, of
                    such conditions and addresses herself to remedies.
                Another charge made against the higher education can not be ignored here.
                If many people vaguely fear that liberal culture will diminish women's fitness
                    for the conjugal relation, a still larger number entertain a more definite dread
                    that, with the higher education, there will increase among women a
                    disinclination to maternity, with a physical inability and a moral unwillingness
                    to assume the cares and discharge the duties consequent to motherhood. Men of
                    high repute in the medical profession have expressed these fears openly, and
                    have, on this ground, denounced college training for women with vehemence.
                    Indeed, the decadence of "American families," (by which is meant the decadence
                    of families of English origin in the United States) has been attributed  by distinguished medical authorities to the
                    "excessive education of American women." True, the average age at which women in
                    this country marry has been raised nearly seven years in the present century,
                    and there can be no doubt that the higher education, both in its direct effects
                    upon those who have pursued it and in its indirect influence upon society at
                    large, has distinctly contributed to this end.
                True, that this increase of the average age at which women marry increases the
                    probability that in marriage they will be controlled less by passion and more by
                    reason; true, also, is it that culture enlarges one's range of enjoyments, and,
                    by giving one a capacity for elevated pleasures, frees one from the thraldom of
                    the pleasures of sense. Thus, directly and indirectly, the higher education may
                    tend to diminish the average number of children born into the family; to admit
                    this, however, is by no means to confess that the higher education unfits or
                    disinclines women for maternity. It would seem that reverence and sentiment were
                    never more irrationally directed than in the eulogies they have dictated upon
                    the "large families of the good old times."
                The study of family history, as it can be read by "the wayfaring man though a
                    fool," in the epitaphs to be found in both country and city churchyards of New
                    England, teaches us that the parents of numerous children generally outlived
                    more than half of their offspring, and that, with exceptional instances of great
                    age, there was a mortality among infants and youths in the "good old days"
                    hardly to be accounted for but by continual epidemics or by the theory that the
                    children of those boasted "large patriarchal families" started the race of life
                    with a depleted vitality. There is encouraging evidence that one effect of the
                    higher education is to measure the honorableness of maternity by the quality as
                    well as by the number of its fruits.
                That the maternal sentiment is weakened by the higher education there is no
                    ground to believe; that the sense of maternal responsibility is quickened and
                    strengthened by it there are multiplying proofs.


                


                The literature of recent years affords many proofs that one influence of higher
                    education is to ransom women from false sensibility, through the agency of
                    enlightened sense. Even authors whose evident purpose is to discredit liberal or
                    professional culture in women are compelled to demonstrate its valuable indirect
                    influence, even while they are decrying its direct consequences to its
                    possessors. Thus, even such books as "Dr. Breen's Practice" and "A Mortal
                    Antipathy" depict domestic aspirations and social ideals superior to the concep-
                    tions entertained by the most prescient and friendly delineators of life in
                    former centuries. Let it not be understood that the higher education quenches
                    the inspiration of impulse, stamps out instinct and enfeebles intuition; it
                    merely limits emotion, instinct and intuition each to its own province, and
                    curbs the propensity of each, to invade the legitimate province of the trained
                    intellect. The higher education, if worthy to be so designated, will be as quick
                    to resent any usurpation on the part of intellect as on the part of instinct;
                    and the ability to study her own mental processes, impartially to analyze her
                    own feelings, and to state them forcibly, but without exaggeration, is a result,
                    a test and a proof of liberal culture, and will save the possessor of it from
                    that rigidity and paralysis of the emotions which occasionally result from an
                    abnormal or disproportioned intellectual development, which must not be
                    confounded with liberal culture.
                The best argument with which any candidate for the higher education can sustain
                    her claim to it is found in its promise of power to make her literally
                    self-possessed, to show her the range and the limits of her capacities and the
                    manner of most effectively using them. But it is only recently that society has
                    allowed young women to enter college upon this appeal. Candidates for the higher
                    education have been compelled to answer the challenge "What are you going to
                    do?" The interrogators meaning thereby --To what practical money-making use will
                    you apply the education that you seek?" Often still, parents say in reply to the
                    question, "Shall you send your daughters to college?"  "Oh! No indeed! My daughters will not have to do anything for a
                    living; we are quite able to support them," and they often add, "They will
                    probably marry early; we wish them to." Often still, friends and acquaintances
                    comment with surprise upon a rich girl's going to college; they explain it (as.
                    something needing explanation) on the ground of whim on her part, or, perhaps,
                    commend it as prudence in her parents, who thus equip her against possible loss
                    of fortune by giving her an education which in case of need can be turned to
                    pecuniary account. All comment of this character indicates that the higher
                    education still is valued, primarily, precisely as houses and lots are
                    valued--for the income it can yield its possessors; and that to a rich woman it
                    will be of value only when her houses burn and her lots depreciate. Such
                    comment, in the early history of higher education, branded the desire for it as
                    a confession of relative poverty.
                Perhaps statistics, could they be obtained, would show that a majority of the
                    alumnӕ of the fourteen institutions represented in this association began their
                    college course with the idea of its possible pecuniary availability in mind;
                    certainly few women have gone far in "the higher education," whatever their
                    opinions upon beginning its pursuit, without growing into the conviction that
                    practical usefulness adds a grace to the most graceful woman. However, one of
                    the best measures of the growing favor enjoyed by the higher education is in the
                    increasing number of young women to be found in the colleges with whom its
                    availability as a means of self-support can be no motive, or, at most, a very
                    remote and inconsiderable motive. The first institutions in America to offer the
                    higher education to woman were dedicated to the almost sole purpose of educating
                    missionaries and teachers, precisely as the New England colleges, almost without
                    exception, in the first instance, were consecrated to the training of clergymen
                    and school masters. The origin of the college in the cloister has affected, down
                    to recent years, the popular conception of the relation between learning and
                    life. The ancient opinion that learning should be divorced from life,  that liberal culture should be separated from
                    practical interests, was enforced at an earlier day as rigidly in case of men as
                    the most ultra conservatives desire it still to be in case of women.
                The idea that only young men who intend to enter one of the learned professions
                    should go to college is but lately relaxing its hold upon the public mind. The
                    stupid belief that learning and life are constitutional foes kept boys who
                    expected to become merchants and mechanics from college in the beginning of
                    collegiate training for men, as in recent years it has kept from college girls
                    whose parents designed them for housekeepers, wives and mothers.
                The equally stupid notions that learning implies heaviness and dulls the social
                    wits, and that liberal culture cools the glow of patrician spirits and gives to
                    patrician features a plebeian cast of thought, once kept squires, knights,
                    soldiers and all sons of lordly leisure from college, as more lately, and even
                    now, the same stupid convictions restrain the aspirations which, in spite of all
                    discouragement and opposition, daughters of wealth and fashion sometimes feel,
                    and keep from college girls whom parents design for society belles.
                It is well to remind oneself of these incidents in the higher education of men;
                    for, sometimes, vexed by absurd theories, untenable assumptions and ridiculous
                    inferences, one is tempted to believe that all these vagaries which now retard
                    the higher education of women originated in the doctrines of woman's
                    intellectual inferiority and her naturally subordinate position in the domestic
                    economy. This is only partially true. In reality, the false philosophy which
                    obstructs current efforts to secure for women opportunities for the higher
                    education has its origin in an ignoble conception of the object of individual
                    life, quite regardless of sex. It is now admitted that for women who are to
                    enter the lists of competitive intellectual service as paid workers the higher
                    education is a valuable, perhaps an essential, instrument. The advocates of
                    higher education must establish next the proposition that such education is
                    also. not only the right, but, considering the ideal interests of humanity,  the necessity, of young women who expect to limit
                    their activities to the home and society--using this last word in its current
                    limited application.
                Men are fond of proclaiming that, in the United States, home and society are what
                    women make them. Women generally assent to this declaration with some
                    complacency. Both men and women should remember that in home and society the
                    stream of human tendency gets an impulse which determines both its direction and
                    its force.
                The principle of the division of labor finds novel and eccentric applications in
                    modern life, and especially in what, even in a democratic community, may be
                    called the higher social circles. In such circles, in the United States,
                    material interests are, by common consent, consigned to men, while spiritual
                    affairs are, with almost equal unanimity, entrusted to women, though held under
                    men's direction.
                The enterprises countenanced by the church, whether for the propagation of
                    doctrine and the winning of proselytes, or in the line of applied Christianity
                    for the maintenance of charities and the execution of philanthropic plans, are
                    largely originated, sustained and, latterly, officered by women. The women of
                    the United States annually raise and expend millions of dollars in what, in
                    general, is known as "church work."
                Besides this work, which they carry forward under church auspices, women build
                    and maintain hospitals, reformatories, asylums, retreats, homes, cures and
                    schools for all manner of sick, friendless, impoverished, sinful and sinned
                    against mortals, of all ages, colors and conditions. The social life of our time
                    is intimately connected with these benevolences; indeed, the social instincts
                    are made the instruments of philanthropies to whose support the social talents
                    are compelled.
                Society women read, sing, arrange tableaux, act plays, embroider, cook, dance and
                    write in the potent name and for the sweet uses of charity. Formerly, the
                    industrial relation of men and women might be expressed thus: Men build the
                    house, and women keep it; men raise or buy the food, and  women dress it. The contemporary division of labor between men and
                    women is: Men develop the resources of this world, and women,
                    through religious exercises and Christian practices, prepare themselves and all
                    of the protégés whom society entrusts to them for the next world.
                When Harriet Martineau visited our country she found that women in easy
                        circumstances--i. e., women whose time was not consumed in
                    the work of their households--pursued religion and charity as occupations. It is
                    a singular phase in social development, whose end is not yet. "But what bearing
                    has this upon higher education?" may be asked. A direct, though not at first
                    glance an obvious, one.
                The law of combination has touched woman's part of the world's work as well as
                    man's. Under the resistless force of this law private and neighborhood charities
                    have expanded to the size of State and Nation, and, overleaping national
                    boundaries, they unite in their common prosecution the women of many lands. Work
                    inaugurated by the heart has grown to such dimensions that it must be abandoned
                    or its direction must be delegated to the brain; and, simply in behalf of their
                    missionary and charitable labors, women have organized clubs for the study of
                    history, political economy and sociology. In the prayer meeting, the missionary
                    meeting, the religious conference, one may witness exercises and listen to
                    papers that might easily mislead the uninformed visitor into supposing the
                    company a branch of some geographical or philosophical society.
                Society formerly refused women the higher education on the ground that, being cut
                    off from large interests, they had no use for large culture; in so far as that
                    argument (granting the premise) was sound, the large interests which, as we have
                    seen, society now confides to women are an unanswerable argument for giving them
                    the higher education.
                There is no greater fallacy than the common one that a complete and thorough
                    education may be obtained through reading--i. e., that education and information are identical.
                    This fallacy has stood and continues to stand directly in the  way of the higher education of women; for, even in
                    refined circles, it is commonly received that large reading and culture are
                    equivalent, or that reading results in culture. Only by attempting to read
                    outside of the subjects of pure literature does one who has been bred to this
                    error learn that the capacity to read in such lines
                    presupposes the higher education, and that such reading is quite impossible (at
                    least to all but extraordinary minds) without that mental discipline and those
                    mental habits for which the higher education stands and in which it results.
                The opportunities which open colleges offer young women act as a spur to women
                    whose youth was passed before any college was opened to their sex; and in clubs
                    and classes for the pursuit of science and letters may be seen another effect of
                    the higher education upon social life. This effect, it must be admitted, is not
                    wholly good; the clubs and classes, in which women strive to supplement their
                    defective early education, and which are often esteemed as the substitutes for
                    college and university, are sometimes regarded as equivalents for these
                    institutions. This serious error is a result of, or one form of, the popular
                    fallacy above mentioned; and it reacts perniciously upon those who entertain it
                    and upon the higher education which is thus misrepresented, not infrequently to
                    the extent of caricature. Notwithstanding this evil or danger incident to them,
                    the clubs and classes for women which are so prominent a feature of the social
                    life of our time and country tend in general to elevate the tone of both
                    domestic and social life; for, where they induce ridiculous affectations of
                    culture and learning in one woman, they give an honest appreciation of learning
                    and culture to ten; where they nourish pedantry in one, they stimulate ten to
                    real intellectual activity; they afford what our society has sadly
                    needed--subjects of conversation that can only with difficulty provoke gossip.
                    As the opening of colleges to young women incited the organization of clubs by
                    women who could not avail themselves of the college, so the clubs are becoming
                    the feeders of the colleges. No statistics can be 
                    cited to support this assertion, but from instances one may again infer a
                    tendency. In the club women not only taste the pleasures of study, but also in
                    their efforts to study, realize keenly the limitations which the lack of early
                    intellectual discipline imposes upon them; and both of these experiences are
                    arguments for giving their daughters the advantages of the higher education.
                The institutions devoted to the higher education ought to do much toward
                    elevating the intellectual tone of society through their influence upon
                    secondary schools; in these secondary schools, academies, seminaries, etc., a
                    majority of the women belonging to the middle and higher classes of society will
                    continue to receive their education. Few secondary schools have the strength to
                    set a standard and be a law unto themselves, and most of them will simply
                    respond to whatever demand the colleges make. A common standard for entrance
                    into the higher institutions, into those merely which are included in this
                    association, if that common standard were fixed not by
                        descending, but by rising to meet the highest entrance
                        requirements now exacted by any of these, would not merely lift the
                    higher education itself, but would also compel all the secondary schools which
                    fit students for these higher institutions to maintain an honest academic
                    character, and thus the advantages of those young women whose direct education
                    ends with the secondary school would be greatly improved and extended.
                The higher education is a means to some of the largest and noblest ends, but it
                    is also in itself a noble end. Remembering that it means a liberal education,
                    and that such an education, if genuine, frees one's powers and liberalizes one's
                    spirit, one must regard this intellectual liberty, which is its fruit, as a
                    sufficient reason for desiring it, especially in the case of women. As a class,
                    women are so trammeled by precedent, prejudice, fashion, social conventions and
                    narrow experience; as a class, they are so encased in their own emotional
                    environment, that intellectual liberty is, perhaps, their only certain path to
                    intelligent free-will, and this conscious and intelligent freedom  of volition is an indispensable condition of moral
                    dignity. The bane of modern life is its monotony; its monotony is but a fruit of
                    its servility. Originality is the felt need of our society; originality, not
                    novelty. Novelty is often but the make-believe of the conscious copyist.
                    Originality pre-supposes sincerity, simplicity and freedom, and all of these
                    qualities and conditions are included in the higher education as its gifts or
                    accompaniments.
                By the uneducated mind oddity may be accepted as the equivalent of originality;
                    but it is a mistake to suppose that originality begins with personality, when an
                    individual differentiates her life from the life of the race. On the contrary,
                    it is when, through culture, the individual becomes free from the thraldom of
                    her personality, from temperament, caprice and situation; when, through culture,
                    she realizes what, in herself, is universal, and therefore, permanent; it is
                    then that she will cease to be servile, and become original, and therefore
                    vitalize whatever she touches.
                The higher education works damage to both domestic and social life when it
                    promises the women who aspire to it what is not in its power to confer. Other
                    things being equal, the liberally educated woman should be a more companionable
                    wife, a more inspiring and helpful mother, and a more competent housekeeper than
                    the non-educated or the narrowly educated woman. Yet, the college cannot say to
                    the young woman, "Enter my gates; sit at the feet of my faculty; choose from my
                    manifold courses according to your appetite; work diligently, and in four years
                    I will return you to your father's house with such and so many definite
                    capabilities."
                It is not the function of the college to teach beauty, grace or cookery; but it
                    is the function of the college to inform the spirit to a degree that shall
                    transform the flesh, and give the countenance that upward look which is more
                    fascinating than beauty; it is its function to bring the powers into a harmony
                    which results in grace; to cultivate perception and judgment to a degree which
                    will make their possessor see in an overdone steak, a water-soaked potato, a
                    heavy loaf of bread, criminal and vulgar violations of both morals and
                    aesthetics.


                


                A charge, very different from those already considered, is not infrequently
                    brought against the higher education--viz., that the tendency of culture is
                    conservative to the extent of making its possessors retrogressive rather than
                    progressive, and, on this ground, some advanced thinkers, who claim for women in
                    all departments of life the same freedom that is accorded to men, still
                    deprecate this influence of the higher education upon what scientists have
                    termed "the conservative sex." Within certain limits, this charge is justified.
                    It is true that a large number of the women who have enjoyed the privileges of
                    the higher education do not see the relation between those privileges and the
                    work and claims of aggressive reformers.
                To explain this fact other conservative influences besides that of the higher
                    education must be taken into account. Of all the women graduated from twelve
                    leading colleges up to 1887 it has been found that 38.10 per cent are housewives
                    (married), 30.24 per cent are teachers, 5.07 per cent are in other occupations,
                    and only 20.59) per cent remain in "no gainful occupation."
                Thus it is shown that 79.41 per cent of our college bred women (assuming that the
                    statistics gathered concerning the alumnӕ of these twelve loading colleges are
                    fairly indicative of the occupations of the alumnӕ of all our women's and
                    co-educational colleges) either are engrossed in domestic cares or are engaged
                    in some profession whose duties are too exacting to give large margin of time to
                    any other work. In this connection, however, it should be remembered that, will-
                    ingly or reluctantly, every woman who engages successfully in any business or
                    profession illustrates the validity of the claims of aggressive reformers, and
                    thus, though perhaps unconsciously--nay, though even resentfully--she becomes
                    their ally.
                Again: College-bred women, as a rule, are fortunately situated; that they are
                    college bred implies, as a rule, that they are the daughters of well-to-do,
                    liberal-minded families. It has been shown that, as a rule, they are congenially
                    occupied. Generally speaking, people who are entirely comfortable themselves,
                         and who are agreeably employed, do not realize
                    the need of social changes. To their consciousness "the time is" not "out of
                    joint." In the midst of personal comfort, happiness, and absorbing interests of
                    labor and pleasure, to see that "the time is out of joint," and to feel oneself
                    "born to set it right," requires a breadth of human sympathy and a moral sense
                    not common to any class, and not to be conferred with any university degree.
                    Such broad human sympathy and enlightened moral sense are, however, not least
                    common among the college-bred women; and when one charges that a cold, selfish
                    or cowardly holding aloof from reforms is one effect of the higher education
                    upon women, collegiate alumnӕ may without fear call the roll of the reformers.
                    The Northwestern University has given the National Woman's Christian Temperance
                    Union a president. The secretary of the Association for the Advancement of
                    Women, popularly known as the Women's Congress, is furnished by Vassar. The
                    corresponding secretary of the National Woman Suffrage Association was one of
                    the first women to set about preparing for the Harvard examinations for women
                    when such examinations were announced, and subsequently studied at the
                    University of Zurich. One of the senior editors of The Woman's
                        Journal is an alumna of Oberlin, and its junior editor is an alumna of
                    Boston University. The editor of the Woman's Tribune was
                    graduated from the Wisconsin University. Michigan University numbers among her
                    alumnӕ one active vice-president of the National Woman Suffrage Association, one
                    officer in the Moral Education Society and one enthusiastic advocate of the
                    application of co-operation to domestic labor. The sympathetic translator of one
                    of the most profound treatises on socialism, and the author of original
                    contributions on this subject, is a daughter of Cornell University.
                These women differ from the majority of collegiate alumnӕ in the degree and the
                    conspicuousness of their service, rather than in the direction of their
                    sympathies, and they represent the women in whom college training has resulted
                    neither in intellectual pride nor in moral indifference. The  maternal instinct in woman impels her to respond
                    quickly to the scriptural requirement to be her brother's keeper. The higher
                    education does not deaden woman's desire to keep this trust, but it enlarges her
                    ability to keep it, and enables her to add to its requirements, and to measure
                    her responsibility on a larger curve.
                The uneducated or narrowly educated woman of the past saw her duty to humanity
                    discharged if she visited its wrecks in hospitals, and bound up their wounds; if
                    she visited it in prisons and wept over its self-inflicted woes; but liberally
                    educated women see that their greatest responsibility lies along the lines of
                    prevention. To produce and rear a race whose heads will not ache is a larger and
                    not less loving task than "to soothe the aching brow." To produce and rear a
                    race in such a habit of self control that its members will not fall before every
                    temptation is a nobler and not less fond a labor than to spend one's life
                    forgiving to the seventy-times-seventh time the victims of appetite and
                    sense.
                To create an atmosphere of lofty moral expectation which shall stimulate to new
                    growth man's enfeebled moral powers is as womanly, as tender, as delicate an
                    office as to ignore moral lapses. It has been the business and the chief grace
                    of woman in her helplessness "to make the best of everything;" it shall be the
                    vocation and the glory of liberally educated woman in her helpfulness to compel
                    and to guide everything to its best.
                The college can not make its students the definite pledges that master workmen
                    can make their apprentices. It can say only this: "Granting upon your part fair
                    abilities, good temper, an honest spirit and average application, I will awaken
                    your powers, put you in possession of them, let you taste the joy of using them;
                    I will humble your vanity and curb your arrogance, by giving you a chance to
                    measure yourself with other young women who, like yourself, are family pets and
                    neighborhood prodigies. I will give you a glimpse at the race to which you
                    belong, with a panoramic view of its progress and attainments; I will give you a
                    chance to see your  place in that race, and your
                    relation to its life and purpose. At the end of four years I will send you home
                    with no recipes, with no prescriptions, but perhaps with outlooks that shall
                    beckon, with inspirations that shall spur, and with a sense of intellectual
                    liberty which implies responsibility and magnanimity as well." The promises of
                    this contract are rather vague. Its conditions are inexorable. Because of the
                    vagueness of its pledges many parents withhold their daughters from entering
                    into it; and, because none of its conditions can be relaxed, without the
                    sacrifice of its corresponding pledges, many who enter into it feel defrauded at
                    the expiration of its time. Yet the attitude of college-bred women toward domes-
                    tic life, and their influence in social life, limited as their num bers now are,
                    afford just ground for the inference that in the transformation of social
                    conditions, and in the elevation of domestic life already foreshadowed among us,
                    the higher education of women is to play no mean role.

            

        

    
