
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Scott, Leroy, 1875-1929.. Mary Regan. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB6982
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		


			
			
				Books by Leroy Scott

				PUBLISHED BY HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
				
					NO. 13 WASHINGTON SQUARE.
						Illustrated.
					MARY REGAN. Illustrated.
				


			

			
			
				MARY REGAN
				

			

			
			

			

			
				
					

						 LYING WITH HIS PALLID FACE TOWARD THE SKY, HE LOOKED HANDSOME AND
							BOYISH AND IRRESISTIBLY LIKABLE(page 373)
						

					
				


			


			


			
				


					MARY REGAN

				

				
					BY
					
					LEROY SCOTT
					


					WITH ILLUSTRATIONS
					
				

				 
				
					 BOSTON AND NEW YORK
					
					
						HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
						The Riverside Press Cambridge
					


					1918

				

			


			

			
				COPYRIGHT, 1917, BY THE METROPOLITAN MAGAZINE COMPANY COPYRIGHT,
					1918, BY LEROY SCOTT

				ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

				Published January 1918

			




			

			
				 CONTENTS 

				


					
						THE WORLD SITS DOWN TOGETHER
						1
						
					
					
						THE RETURN OF MARY REGAN
						11
						
					
					
						PETER LOVEMAN
						20
						
					
					
						AS MARY SEES HERSELF
						34
						
					
					
						CLIFFORD HAS A NEW PURPOSE
						47
						
					
					
						MARY SHOWS HER HAND
						55
						
					
					
						NINA CORDOVA
						70
						
					
					
						IN LOVEMAN'S LIBRARY
						87
						
					
					
						THE TEST OF LIFE
						100
						
					
					
						THE GOLDEN DOORS
						112
						
					
					
						MARY PLANS ANEW
						124
						
					
					
						A GENTLEMAN OF PLEASURE
						136
						
					
					
						MR. MORTON TAKES A HAND
						149
						
					
					
						MARY FACES A CRISIS
						159
						
					
					
						LOVEMAN SHOWS HIS CLAWS
						169
						
					
					
						THE STRINGS OF HUMAN NATURE
						181
						
					
					
						THE OTHER WOMAN
						193
						
					
					
						HOW MAISIE JONES REACTED
						206
						
					
					
						MARY THINKS THINGS OUT
						215
						
					
					
						CLIFFORD'S NEW ASSIGNMENT
						225
						
					
					
						AT THE MIDNIGHT CAFÉ
						238
						

					


					
					
						MARY MAKES AN OFFER
						248
						
					
					
						XXIII. LOVEMAN'S FINAL PLEA
						264
						
					
					
						TWO PLEASANT GENTLEMEN
						275
						
					
					
						XXV. A FATHER'S HOPE
						282
						
					
					
						HOW MARY'S DREAM CAME TRUE
						295
						
					
					
						JACK MAKES A RESOLUTION
						315
						
					
					
						THE HOUSE OF MONSIEUR LE BAIN
						324
						
					
					
						CLIFFORD WAITS ON GUARD
						336
						
					
					
						WHEN WOMEN NEVER TALK
						344
						
					
					
						WHEN OLD FOES GET TOGETHER
						354
						
					
					
						PLEASURE PRESENTS ITS BILL
						363
						
					
					
						THE STUFF IN MARY REGAN
						378
						
					

				
			

			
			

				ILLUSTRATIONS
				
					
						LYING WITH HIS PALLID FACE TOWARD THE SKY, HE LOOKED HANDSOME AND BOYISH AND IRRESISTIBLY LIKABLE(page 373)
						Frontispiece
						
					
					
						HER FACE WAS VERY PALE AND DAZED -- IT HELD THE LOOK OF ONE WHO WONDERED, BUT COULD NOT UNDERSTAND
						108
						
					
					
						"WHY DID YOU ACCEPT THE POSITION HE PUT
								YOU IN?" HE BURST OUT ROUGHLY
						156
						
					
					
						"REALLY, MISS GILMORE, YOU KNOW, YOU CAN'T TRUST A MAN'S CURIOSITY TOO FAR"
						208
						
					
					
						"YOU'VE HAD JACK IN CHARGE FOR TWENTY-FIVE YEARS -- AND IN THERE
								YOU SEE YOUR WORK"
						262
						

					
					
						LOVEMAN WAS GRIPPING HER LEFT ARM, AND HILTON HAD HER STRUGGLING RIGHT ARM IN A TWISTING CLUTCH
						304
						
					
					
						"I KNOW YOU REALLY HAVE BEEN MY FRIEND," SHE ANSWERED -- "MY BEST FRIEND.
								AND I THANK YOU"
						312
						
					
					
						HE DREW A CHAIR UP BESIDE HER, AND THEY
								BOTH SAT GAZING OUT AT THE HARBOR
						374
						
					
				

				
					From drawings by Dalton Stevens, reproduced through the courtesy of the
							Metropolitan Magazine
				


			


		

		
			


			
			
				MARY REGAN
				

					CHAPTER I
					

					
						THE WORLD SITS DOWN TOGETHER
					

					IT was opening night of the new bill at the Grand Alcazar; and
						Clifford, as he waited alone at a little table for his host, almost unconsciously
						searched through the great restaurant of black-and-gold for Mary Regan -- just as,
						almost unconsciously, he had been seeking her wherever he had been during the six months
						of agreed-upon silence since they had parted. He did not expect to see her here, hence
						felt no disappointment when his roving eyes did not come upon her. She had said she
						would write when she had thought it all out, and when she was ready to see him. Six
						months was a long time, but he believed in her word -- and still waited, not once having
						sought to penetrate that utter privacy which she had asserted to be for her, at that
						time, life's prime essential. But though keeping his word, he had often been impatient,
						and had often wondered.
					Meditatively Clifford glanced over this great crowd of well-dressed diners. For him
						they were a vivid concentration, a cross-section, of life: of life as he, in his
						philosophy, and in the pursuit of his  profession, had come
						to see it. Here were millionaires, many of them having made their easeful fortunes by
						dubious operations which shrewd counsel had steered just within the law; here were young
						men of moderate means, spending recklessly; here were society women of the younger and
						smarter set, with their escorts, sowing the seeds, though they dreamed it not, of
						possible scandal and possible blackmail; here were members of that breed of humans who
						are known as "sporting men"; here were the most finished types of professional crooks,
						many accompanied by the finished women of their own kind, but here and there with them a
						girl who had no idea of the manner of man with whom she ate and drank, and no idea of
						the end of this her pleasant adventure; and here were respectable mothers and their
						daughters, who were innocent of what sat at the next table; and here were out-of-town
						visitors who were visibly excited and exalted by the thought that they were seeing life
						-- New York! -- the real New York!
					Clifford smiled sadly, rather grimly, to himself. These conglomerate guests were proof
						of what he had long held: that there was no distinct underworld, no distinct upperworld;
						that in ideas and personalities the two were always merging. This scene summarized what
						experience had made the basic idea of Clifford's working philosophy: the great
						interrelation, the great interdependence, the great oneness of all
						humanity.


					

					Looking over this mixture of all sorts, in which acquaintance was so easy to make,
						Clifford thought of the strange dramas that had their beginnings in the Grand Alcazar
						and establishments of its kind. Thus much had the dancing craze, though now receded from
						its earliest frenzy, and the practice of dining and eating midnight suppers in the showy
						restaurants, achieved: it had brought all sorts of persons, so long as they were well
						dressed, under the same roof and had set them down at the same or adjoining tables.
						Hardly since time began had that important requisite of great drama been so nearly
						perfect as in these restaurants -- for people of different ideas and interests and moral
						standards to meet naturally upon a common ground. ...
					A little man, swart of face, his mustache tightly waxed, and in the smartest evening
						dress that convention permits the male, paused and spoke to Clifford -- a gentleman whom
						most of the patrons of the place knew, if they knew him at all, as Monsieur Le Bain.
						Though the master of this ornate pleasure palace, he spoke obsequiously.
					Clifford liked to see the great little man squirm. "Police trouble you much here?" he
						asked.
					"No, Bob, -- I never see a policeman here, except when a captain or an inspector comes
						in to eat," the great restaurateur said nervously.
					"Not like the old days downtown -- with their raids -- eh, Joe?"
					"Nothing of that sort -- ever!" And with a quick  look
						around that showed he feared some one might have overheard these sentences and guessed
						what lay behind them, he said something about being needed on his ballroom floor and
						hurried away.
					Clifford watched the famous restaurateur, again smiling grimly. If these people here --
						the respectable ones at least -- knew the record of Joe Gordon (which again was not the
						name given him at birth), knew from what places and occupations he had made his way to
						his eminence of foremost host and impresario of prandial entertainment -- what a panic
						there would be! (Or would there be a panic?) Life was certainly strange! -- with its
						emergencies, its juxtapositions, its crossing of threads --strange at least to him who
						was always seeing behind the scenes. Yes, life was certainly strange! ...
					Clifford's meditations were interrupted by a hearty, "Hello, Bob," and by a large hand
						gripping one of his.
					"Hello, Uncle George. I'd begun to think --"
					"Hold on, son," and Clifford's host halted the talk by raising one hand like a traffic
						policeman and with the other reaching for the dinner card. While the long order was
						being dictated, Clifford gazed impatiently across at his companion, wondering what this
						appointment was about. His host was a large man who once might have been bulbous, but
						who now had deflated little balloons of skin hanging beneath eyes and chin and jaws. His
						few short gray hairs were divided into two precisely equal portions;  his eyebrows were entirely gone, and of eyelashes he had
						almost none; his eyes were smallish, gray, cunning, genial. He made Clifford fancy, with
						those eyes of his so good-naturedly cynical, and with his large, outstanding ears, that
						here might be a satyr who had forsaken gay forests for city and had at length grown into
						grandfatherly days.
					"Well, now, Uncle George -- what's all this about?" Clifford demanded when the order
						was in.
					"Not so fast, son, -- not so fast," slowly remonstrated Uncle George, who, as far as
						Broadway's knowledge went, was no one's Uncle George, but who was known by no other
						name. "Let's wait until we've packed away some of the freight that waiter's going to
						bring us." He blinked his lashless lids, and drawled on. "It's been a long time since
						I've seen you -- six months. I just wanted to give you the once over, and ask you how
						was trade."
					"Trade's good -- considering."
					The old head nodded. "Yes, considering that you're a detective who's on the square.
						There's not much chance for that sort, son, --not in this here widely advertised
						Christian civilization of ours. At least, not much chance to make a large private
						collection of coin."
					"I'm not in this primarily to make money. I thought you understood that."
					"You sure are a queer guy, son," pronounced the old man. "I've heard you spiel off your
						ideas-- you're not primarily a thief-taker -- you're in this  to help people out of the trouble. A hell of an idea for a detective!"
					"You know as well as I do, Uncle George, that most of the people that get into trouble,
						or seem to be bad -- well, they personally are not so much to blame. They've been born
						and raised in bad conditions -- they've never had a chance -- have never really been
						able to tell what was right or wrong, and have never had a chance to choose the right
						--"
					"Come up for air, son, -- come up for air," cut in the old man. "Son, that's nice
						music, but it's all bunk. You're an awful example of what a college education can do to
						a man. Now you just listen to your Uncle George. You know me -- everybody knows me. I've
						been in about every crooked game known to the human race and the higher animals,
						including managing shows -- and I've never been pinched because I was too clever for the
						coppers, and the coppers know it, too. I tell you I know life up and down and across the
						middle -- and I tell you that we've all got a streak of crookedness -- every damned one
						of us!"
					"If that's so," smiled Clifford, "then why are you always helping crooks?"
					"That's just my human cussedness. I've retired from business -- I'm one of these
						gentlemen farmers that have located on Broadway; but I don't like to see any earnest
						young crook get a raw deal from the coppers, who are the rawest crooks of all." The old
						man waved his left hand as though brushing such 
						conversation aside. "But let's get down to brass tacks -- which means you and me. You
						and Bradley as great friends as ever?"
					Despite himself Clifford flushed with chagrin. "Don't try to be funny!"
					"And, son, don't be too sore. Bradley was one hell of a guy. He was the cleverest chief
						of detectives the Police Department ever had."
					"And the crookedest!"
					"Sure, son, -- did n't I tell you us humans were all crooks!" the old man said
						appeasingly. "But, sure, there never was a crookeder chief of detectives than Bradley.
						You certainly showed nerve when you started out to get him -- and you certainly showed
						your class when you finally trapped him, publicly, with the goods on. Only --"
					"That's it -- only!" Clifford exclaimed sourly. "It's quite some
						little word, that only."
					"Sure -- only. Son," -- and the old man spoke gravely, -- "I'm twice
						as old as you are, but you should know as well as I know that you really can't get a copper. I mean a clever copper. Count the big coppers that have
						really been sent away -- the smart boys, I mean -- and you'll see you have several
						fingers left to check up your laundry on. That was grand business you pulled on Bradley,
						and it showed all New York he was a crook. It was worth doing -- God, yes! But I said to
						myself, as soon as I heard of the swell arrest you had made of him, that a classy guy
						like Bradley would have himself covered  and would beat the
						case when it came to trial. And he sure did beat it!"
					"On a technicality!" Clifford was still bitter at the manner in which his old enemy and
						old superior officer had slipped from what had seemed the sure clutches of the law.
					"A technicality, sure. But it got him off, and what more does a crook ever ask
						for?"
					"But he got reinstated in the Police Department!" "But did n't he retire right
						afterwards, claiming broken health? And don't you and I know his real reason was that
						his old game was done for and that the public was wise to him? The big trouble with you,
						son," the old man declared severely, "is that you want a one hundred per cent victory.
						The best you can hope for with a guy like Bradley is to split the thing
						fifty-fifty."
					"You seem to admire Bradley a lot!" half growled Clifford.
					"I do. I hand it to the guy with brains wherever I meet him."
					"I don't see how you can be friends with me, then!"
					"You're clever, too, son. You're the only one I've ever figured might beat Bradley in a
						finish fight. And then you're a queer party, Bob, -- you're square," he drawled. "I've
						traveled up and down this world of he-and-she grafters, shoplifters, safeblowers, and
						sure-thing business men, and after it all you know it's right pleasant to sit down in
						the shade of a square guy. And besides, son," he added, "I said I admired  Bradley because he was clever; I did n't say I liked him as a
						friend. Now, you, Bob, somehow I like you."
					"Thanks, Uncle George." There was a moment's silence. "But that's not what you got me
						here to tell me."
					"Perhaps not, son. But what's the hurry? Queer, ain't it," he meditated, "how all the
						big cops, when they leave the Police Department, open a private detective agency? I hear
						Bradley's doing great business since he started out as a private detective."
					"Licensed blackmailer -- that's what he is!"
					"Sure, son, that's what they all are. A client tells a private sleuth secrets, and
						retains him to get information about some other party -- and is held up for a big fee.
						The sleuth gets the information, and then makes the second party pay by threatening to
						expose him -- second hold-up; and then makes the first client pay again by threatening
						to expose the original secret -- third hold-up. Oh, it's a rich game Bradley's switched
						into!"
					"Once more, Uncle George -- that's not what you got me here to tell me."
					"Perhaps it's not really so much I've got to tell you. Mebbe it's occurred to you" --
						meditatively, slowly -- "that since the big upset you gave him, Bradley is n't exactly
						what you might call in love with you."
					"Not exactly."
					"Well, I heard it from a friend who's got a friend 
						who's got a mother-in-law who listens to little birds -- and the dope runs that Bradley
						is out to square matters with you."
					Clifford nodded. He had expected something of the sort.
					"Did this little bird relay any information as to just what Bradley was going to
						do?"
					"None that got to me. But, son, I'd keep my eyes pointed in all directions, and be
						careful of the friends I made, and be careful of the cases I got drawn into. It may be a
						long time coming, and God only knows in what direction it'll come from. Bradley knows
						how to handle people so they never know they're being handled -- and he's likely to hit
						you through almost any one. Look out, son. This is serious. There'll be big doings."
					Clifford gazed steadily at the old worldling. Indeed, there must be something -- and
						big! -- or else Uncle George, whose general attitude in matters of morals, police, and
						criminals was one of genial laissez-faire, would not have brought him
						this warning. He knew from experience the craft and power of Bradley -- his subtle
						patience in working out his designs, his patience in waiting apparently quiescent for
						the ripe moment -- the swiftness and might with which he struck when the instant came to
						strike.
					Automatically, swiftly, Clifford's mind flashed forward in search of possible weapons,
						of direct and devious schemes, that the fertile-brained Bradley might be contriving
						against him.

				
				

				

					CHAPTER II
					

					
						THE RETURN OF MARY REGAN
					

					SUDDENLY all conjectures concerning Bradley were swept utterly from
						his mind. Down the gilded red-carpeted stairway that led from what the Grand Alcazar
						termed its "ballroom de luxe," there came -- though this was not the figure Clifford
						first noted -- a short, full-bodied, ornately dressed man, with a bald crown and a smile
						of engaging amiability. Beside him, and a half-head taller, -- and this is what Clifford
						first saw, -- walked a slender young woman, in an evening coat of rose velvet, her
						rounded throat gleaming a dusky marble from the soft shadows of the furred collar. Her
						face was the rose-tan of early autumn leaves, and her dark eyes gazed straight before
						her with a composure so complete that it seemed to announce a haughty indifference to
						all the world.
					"Mary Regan!" ejaculated Clifford, stupefied. Uncle George seemed not the least
						startled by Clifford's exclamation. He turned -- and then there was surprise enough in
						his voice: --
					"Hello -- Peter Loveman with her!"
					Clifford, recovered from his brief paralysis, arose and hurried between the tables. But
						the pair had already turned into the entrance and did not note  him. As Clifford came into the gilded and bepalmed lobby, he saw her, aided
						by four eager Grand Alcazar flunkeys and by Loveman, looking a grotesquely small grand
						opera impresario in his silk hat and fur coat, stepping into a closed car. By running
						Clifford could have caught her, or by calling he could have gained her attention. But at
						that instant he remembered the essence of their bargain, that he should make no attempt
						to seek her out until she sent for him. That remembrance checked him; the door closed
						upon the rose-velvet figure, the car slid off through Broadway's incandescent
						brilliance, and she was gone.
					Foregetful of where he was, Clifford stood bareheaded and stockstill in the lobby. Mary
						Regan's sudden reappearance out of the silence, the vacancy, of six months' absence,
						sent his mind flashing over the past, the present, the future, touching in chaotic
						wonderment the high spots of his strange relationfhip with her . . . Daughter of that
						one-time famous cynic and famous master criminal, "Gentleman Jim" Regan, dead these five
						years, she had passed her girlhood in the cynical philosophy of the little court
						surrounding her father, -- had made that philosophy her own, -- and, grown into young
						womanhood, she had joined that great crime entrepreneur, her Uncle Joe
						Russell, in many of his more subtle enterprises. It was at the beginning of this career
						that Clifford's life had come into contact with hers. Police Commissioner Thorne had
						ordered him  to "cover" the pair. From the first Clifford
						had conceived the idea that her criminal point of view was not an expression of her true
						nature, but was a habit of mind developed in her by association: and he had proceeded
						upon the theory that a bigger rôle, than merely to make arrests, would be to arouse the
						real Mary Regan to her true self. . . . The conflicts between the two! -- her hostility
						to him! -- his ultimate success, or seeming success, when he had broken through her
						shell of defensive cynicism -- and last of all, that parting scene down in Washington
						Square in the dusk of the on-coming dawn! ...
					He lived through that scene for a briefest moment -- he was always living over that
						scene. He had told her that he loved her; and she, admitting that she loved him, had
						said, "But that does n't mean I can marry you." "Then, what does it mean?" he had
						demanded. A look of decision had come into her face -- how vividly he recalled every
						minutia of their one love-scene! -- and she had said: --
					"Before we can talk definitely about such things, I want to go off somewhere, alone,
						and think over what you have said about me. If I am not what I used to be -- if I am
						really that different person you say I am, I want to get acquainted with myself. I seem
						so strange to myself, it all seems so strange. I hope you are right -- but I must be
						sure -- very sure -- and so I am going away."
					"But when you come back?" he had cried.


					

					"A lot may happen before that," she had answered gravely. "A lot to you, and a lot to
						me."
					"But when you come back?" he had insisted.
					"When I come back," she had breathed quaveringly, "if you still think the same way
						about my being that sort of person -- and if I find that it's really true --"
					And then his arms had closed about her and he had kissed her. But even as she had let
						him, she had murmured almost fearfully: "Remember -- a lot -- may happen -- before then
						..."
					Clifford's mind leaped forward from that long- gone night to the present. And now she
						was back -- back out of the unknown into which she had dissppeared -- and back without
						having sent him a word of any kind! What did it mean, this unannounced return? And what
						did it mean, her being in company with dapper little Peter Loveman? -- man-about-town,
						and carrying behind that round, amiable smile the shrewdest legal brain of its variety
						in New York.
					Clifford had in reality been standing in the gilded lobby for no more than a minute,
						though his mind had traversed so wide a space, when a gray-and black town-car, with a
						long hood that suggested power ample for a racer, slowed down at the curb and a young
						man stepped out and hurried into the Grand Alcazar. Fifth Avenue tailors and hatters and
						haberdashers had equipped him with their best and costliest.


					

					"Sink my ship if it's not old Bob Clifford!" he cried, giving Clifford a slender, soft
						hand. "How's the old boy?"
					"Same as always. And how's Jackie Morton? You've been missing for months."
					"I've a wonderful tale to unfold -- but no time to unfold it now."
					There was that about him which begot an instant liking, though his face was not as
						strong as it might have been.
					"Say -- you won't believe it -- but listen. I've been on the wagon for seventeen
						weeks!"
					"No!"
					"Give you my word! Not a drop in seventeen ages! Had to, you know. My old man -- say,
						he's one old battleship! -- steamed into New York and shut off supplies, and said unless
						I cut it all out and took a brace, there'd be no more shipments of munitions. Get the
						situation, don't you? -- case of a sixteen-inch gun shoved into my face and bein' told
						it would go off if I did n't reform. So look and behold and observe what's happened -- I
						'm reformed! Been off where milk's all they shove 'cross the bar -- isolated, and all
						that kind of thing -- and been behavin' in a way to make the Ten Commandments jealous.
						Honest to God, Clifford --"
					Abruptly he checked this effervescence. "Say, seen Peter Loveman about here?"
					"He's just gone."
					"Alone?"


					

					"I believe there was a young lady with him," Clifford replied discreetly -- wondering a
						little what young Morton's business, if any, could be with the pair that had left.
					Morton hesitated; then again was effervescent. "Was to have met him here -- but there's
						no tellin' where he is. Come on -- let's have a drink."
					"But you are on the wagon."
					"I am. But I want to give you the grand sight of watchin' me fall off."
					"You sit tight right where you are," advised Clifford.
					"Now, come on, don't block traffic with a funeral," pleaded the young fellow, slipping
						an arm through Clifford's. "Just one drink!" Clifford shook his head; and Morton tried
						to draw him into the restaurant. "Just one little drink, Clifford, -- one little drink
						after a Sahara of milk!"
					"Mr. Morton!" a deep, brusque voice called from behind them.
					They turned. A man, square of shoulders and deep of chest and with square, forceful
						face, was advancing toward them.
					"Hello, Clifford," he said.
					"Hello, Bradley," Clifford returned, trying to speak calmly -- and for the briefest
						space these old enemies, who had so often been at grips, stared at each other, with
						hard, masked gazes.
					Bradley turned to Clifford's companion. "So you tried to give me the slip, Mr. Morton.
						I heard  what you suggested to Clifford. But I guess you
						are keeping off the booze to-night."
					"Just look this large person over, Clifford," mourned the young fellow; "and honest,
						ain't it hell, my father wishing a party like Bradley on me for a nurse!"
					"You need one all right!" Bradley said grimly.
					"But even babies get let alone for an hour now and then," protested the other.
					"You forget that the size of my check from your father depends upon my keeping you and
						booze apart."
					Morton sighed. "You 're a sordid person, Bradley." 
					"I might mention incidentally," continued Bradley, "that your father has just come to
						town."
					"The devil!" Morton's face filled with dismay. "I guess, then, it really is good-night,
						Clifford." He took Bradley's arm. "Come on, nursie; let's hail the captain of my
						perambulator."
					Clifford watched the two go out, and again he had the sense that he was glimpsing into
						the complicated maze behind the brilliant surface of Big Pleasure. The relationship
						between that pair might be strange for any other period in the world's history, but it
						was a definite, though small, phase of this great pleasure life -- a gay young spender
						bridled and the reins put in the hands of a private officer. Clifford felt a moment's
						uneasiness for young Morton: in what ways could Bradley not twist his client  and protégé into predicaments that would bring him
						profit?
					When Clifford regained his table, Uncle George regarded him with amazement. "I thought
						you had gone!"
					"Gone where?"
					"With or after Miss Regan."
					"Why?"
					"I thought you were -- well, I guess you get me. That being the case, I did n't think
						you'd pass up the chance to be with her."
					Clifford hesitated, then spoke the truth: "The last time I saw Mary Regan, I promised
						not to speak to her until she sent for me."
					"And it was your promise that stopped you?" Uncle George asked incredulously.
					"Yes."
					"You poor simp! I suppose you thought she'd be thinking of you, only you, with you out
						of her sight for six months -- and that then there'd come a sweet little message like
						them they flash on the movie screens!"
					Clifford did not reply. Uncle George had very nearly expressed his thought.
					"No woman ever lived that could keep thinking of one man for six months, and him away!"
						Uncle George leaned closer, and spoke in a low voice. "See here, son, -- while you've
						been keeping your promise and remaining strictly off the premises, what do you think the
						other people have been doing?"


					

					"What other people?" cried Clifford, in quick alarm.
					Uncle George ignored the question. "You think you've been an influence upon her. Mebbe
						so, son. Mebbe so. But she was twenty, and two or three more, before you ever saw her.
						Don't you think those twenty years might have some influence with her, too?"
					"What other people?" repeated Clifford.
					Again Uncle George ignored the question. He looked at Clifford keenly, and spoke
						slowly.
					"'While ago you asked me why I wanted to meet you here. Well, son, my chief reason was
						because I knew Mary Regan was going to be here -- and because I thought, on seeing her,
						you'd wade right into the situation."
					"See here, George, what do you know?" Clifford cried sharply.
					"Mighty little that's definite, -- and telling you that would be giving people away,
						and that's against my principles, -- and, besides, the little I know might only be
						misleading. But, son," --the old man's voice was grave, -- "if you're at all interested
						in that girl, you sure ought to be busy. And that's all I can say."
					Abruptly Clifford stood up. "Thanks, Uncle George, -- good-bye --" And he was gone.

				
				

				

					CHAPTER III
					

					
						PETER LOVEMAN
					


					CLIFFORD'S first business was to make up for the opportunity he had
						just let slip, and find Mary Regan. At once he decided that his best source of
						information was her brother, "Slant-Face," once a pickpocket of amazing skill, now the
						manager of a little motion-picture house. He turned uptown to Slant-Face's theater.
					On the way he was feverishly alive with questions. Clifford's thoughts had really not
						been off Mary Regan from the moment he had seen her come down the stairway; and now
						Uncle George's vague warning -- he knew Uncle George would not have spoken even so
						indefinitely unless there existed a very real situation -- banished all else from his
						mind. Why had n't Mary Regan sent him word? What was behind her return in such a manner?
						What decision had she come to in regard to herself during these months? What decision in
						regard to him?
					And this danger that Uncle George had hinted at -- did it rise chiefly from the plans
						and influence of other persons? And who might these other persons be? And what might be
						the danger? Or might the danger rise partly out of the complexities, the contradictions,
						of her own nature? -- that nature which had  always so
						baffled and eluded him. But the doubt which lay behind this last question seemed
						disloyal, and he forcibly drove it from his mind. Mary Regan, he emphatically told
						himself, was the woman he had believed her to be! She could explain everything. Whatever
						might be wrong was due to the unknown other persons.
					Slant-Face's theater, though the hour was only ten, was dark. He hurried to
						Slant-Face's apartment; but Slant-Face was not there, and his wife knew nothing of his
						whereabouts. Downtown again, Clifford began a tour of Slant-Face's hang-outs; and at
						length he found him standing alone at the end of the Knickerbocker bar, before him a
						glass of butter-milk -- a slender, smartly dressed person, whose immobile, lean face was
						given a saturnine cast by the downward slant of the left corner of his mouth.
					"I saw your theater was closed, Slant-Face," said Clifford. "What's the matter?"
					"Bradley."
					"Bradley! How could he have anything to do with closing your theater?"
					"Bradley has n't forgot my little part in your stunt that got him out of the
						Department. He just waited -- and laid his plans. While films were being run off and the
						house was dark, he had pockets picked in my place, or had people say their pockets were
						picked -- pulled this three times. What with my reputation, this was enough for the
						Commissioner of Licenses, and he closed my joint."


					

					"That's pretty rank. Bradley certainly does have a long memory -- and a long arm!"
					"This is a five-reel picture, and it's not all been run off yet," half growled
						Slant-Face through his thin lips. "In the last reel, some one is going to get him!" He
						sipped his buttermilk, then abruptly: "Clifford, because of what you've done for me,
						I've played it straight for a year. The straight game don't pay -- not for me. So I'm
						through. I guess you understand what comes next."
					"See here, Slant-Face, don't be --"
					"I'm through!" There was the snap of absolute finality in the low, quiet voice.
					Clifford knew that mere words could not change the decision made behind that lean, grim
						visage; so he turned to the matter that had brought him there.
					"Have you seen your sister to-day?"
					"Have n't seen Mary in six months."
					"You mean you don't know where she's staying?" exclaimed Clifford.
					"Down South in the woods somewhere, -- God knows why, -- doing a stretch of
						self-imposed solitary." 
					The obviously honest answer sharpened Clifford's already poignant uneasiness.
						"Slant-Face, I saw her an hour ago."
					"In New York?"
					"At the Grand Alcazar." And then he added: "She was with Peter Loveman."
					Even the stoic Slant-Face started. "With Peter  Loveman!
						-- the lawyer that beat Bradley's case for him! What the devil does that mean?"
					"Just what I'm wondering myself."
					"You mean you did n't ask her anything -- did n't speak to her?"
					"No."
					Slant-Face looked his bewilderment. He had had his own private guess at what had been
						the situation between Clifford and his sister. But he did not ask the "why" of this to
						him strange behaviour on Clifford's part.
					"Mary with Peter Loveman!" he repeated. "Either Mary is trying to put something across
						-- in the old way, you understand; or else she's -- well, it looks like queer doings to
						me!"
					"That's why I looked you up. Some one should step in, and stop what's under way. I
						supposed you knew where she was."
					"I'm going to begin to try to find out," said Slant-Face. "And you?"
					"Same here. By the way, would your Uncle Joe know anything?"
					"Did n't you know? He's sold out everything here and bought himself a fruit farm in
						California."
					"Then there's just one man we're certain does know. That's Loveman, and I'm going after
						Loveman. Let me know if you get next to anything, Slant-Face. So-long."
					Clifford and the once master pickpocket clasped hands.


					

					"And Slant-Face," Clifford added, "about that other matter -- getting money in the old
						way. Don't do it."
					"I'm not promising," said Slant-Face quietly.
					Clifford privately asked Police Commissioner Thorne to help in locating Mary Regan.
						Also he hunted up little Lieutenant Jimmie Kelly, one hundred and twenty pounds of grit
						and daring, head of the Tenderloin Squad that free-lanced through the hotels,
						restaurants, and resorts of Broadway, and of Jimmie he asked the same help. He himself,
						for two days and nights, now and then seeing Uncle George and Slant-Face, trailed Peter
						Loveman from office to courts and back again -- and particularly about the restaurants
						and theaters and after-theater theaters, which comprised Loveman's especial habitat.
					But not again did Clifford see Loveman with Mary Regan. The second night, however, he
						did see Loveman with young Morton, and with the two a middle-aged man with a masterful
						face. Morton's father, Clifford guessed.
					And yet, though he saw nothing, all his senses assured him with growing insistence that
						great forces were at their hidden work -- those subtle, complex forces that operate
						indirectly, patiently, with infinite cunning, behind the alluring and often innocent
						visage of brilliant Big Pleasure. And also he had a growing sense that this was not
						primarily a detective's puzzle; but primarily a matter of the eternal human mystery of
						how human beings react, and  how they may be artfully
						stimulated. He felt himself just a human being in the midst of a human problem whose
						outlines he could not yet discern.
					On the third day of failure it came to Clifford that there was a chance -- a bare
						chance -- that Loveman had no design involving Mary Regan, and he decided to go openly
						to him. At Loveman's lavish downtown offices he was told Loveman had telephoned he would
						not appear that morning. Twenty minutes later Clifford, after having sent in his card by
						the Japanese butler-valet, was in Loveman's study. The room, the studio of an apartment
						designed for an artist, was furnished with a disordered luxury and culture which
						Clifford knew to be a genuine characteristic of the strange little notable on whom he
						waited. Here were rows and rows of first editions; old Dutch etchings, among them
						several original Rembrandts; a helter-skelter gallery of autographed photographs of
						favorite actresses. For a score of years, as Clifford knew, Loveman had not missed an
						important first night.
					Whatever might be the outcome of this interview, Clifford knew that sometime, somehow,
						between him and Loveman there would be a conflict of wits. So he looked swiftly and
						curiously around the room, for concerning this room there were current many fables. This
						study, and not the downtown office, was said to be Loveman's real workshop. Here were
						created those astute plans, in which the influence of Loveman was never traceable, that
						brought to his  downtown office those big-fee'd domestic
						cases, to be fought brilliantly and sensationally in the courts or to be settled
						discreetly in private. He was New York's ablest representative of a type of lawyer that
						modern social conditions have produced: a specialist in domestic affairs -- and one,
						when profitable dissension or threatening scandal did not exist, who knew how to create
						such. It was gossiped that he kept a careful record of all tangled relations among the
						rich, of the details of every delicate situation, and watched and bided his time until
						at length the affair threatened to explode into a scandal -- and then he acted. In this
						study there was a huge "Scandal File," so gossip had it; but Clifford, looking about,
						saw no such fabled article of furniture.
					At that moment Loveman entered, his tonsured head and rope-girdled dressing-gown giving
						him the appearance of a somewhat jolly and rakish monk.
					"Good-morning, Clifford," he exclaimed, cordially holding out his hand. "Mightily like
						a Christian of you, looking an old tramp up."
					"They told me at your office that you were sick."
					Loveman waved Clifford into a chair, took one himself and crossed his small,
						exquisitely slippered feet. "That's what I told the office, but I did n't tell 'em what
						sort of sickness it was. My boy," -- with a frank, engaging grin, which was one of the
						many qualities that made this strange man so popular, -- "do you perceive any adequate
						excuse for a man of  my supposedly sensible years starting
						in at 11.30 P.M. on a mixed-drink Marathon?"
					"I can't say," smiled Clifford, "without a knowledge of the prior --"
					"Don't be legally cautious with an incautious lawyer. There was no excuse." Loveman
						shook his round head solemnly. "There was provocation, though. You bet there was
						provocation. Were you at the opening last night of 'Orange Blossoms'?"
					"No."
					"Congratulations. It's a dam' rotten show! And Nina Cordova -- she's all there off the
						stage, pretty, and clever, and one wise little girl, don't you forget it! -- but a dam'
						rotten star and the voice of a guinea- hen that's got the quinsy. And it cost sixty
						thousand dollars to get the curtain up last night, and I put up twenty thousand dollars
						of that boodle. Tell me, oh, why" -- with a quaver of mock self-sympathy -- "am I always
						going out of my own line and letting myself be played as a sucker by some manager or
						actress that wants extra backing? Twenty thousand honest-to-God dollars! I kissed 'em
						good-bye the very minute Nina first opened that dam' pretty mouth, and her first note
						rasped across the footlights! Ain't I the boob!"
					Clifford smiled at the grotesquely disconsolate figure, but did not answer; he knew no
						answer was expected. But while he smiled, waiting, part of his brain was remarking that
						these seemingly reckless ventures of Loveman were in truth sound investments  on which, by the devious methods of his art, he later
						realized sumptuously. That twenty thousand, which would make the vain Nina regard him as
						her disinterested friend and adviser, was n't money thrown away -- not in view of the
						whispered affair between the voiceless prima donna, and --
					"Why should I be blowing my roll," continued Loveman, "on these dam' musical comedies
						-- musical, say there's some irony for you! -- when what I'd have
						liked would have been to help back a show like 'Justice.' Or the Russian ballet.
						Nijinsky -- there's some artist for you!" His last words were vividly sincere; there was
						nothing more sincere about the little man than his admiration for the highest endeavors
						in art. "And yet my coin goes into 'Orange Blossoms'! Is there an artistic Dr. Jekyll
						and Mr. Hyde? -- there is, and I'm the party -- and that's why my stomach, esophagus,
						palate, tongue, mouth, and all appertaining thereunto, are this A.M. composed of a faded
						and dusty Brussels carpet. But, my boy, you did n't come here to listen to my woes. What
						can I do for you?"
					His humorously bewailing manner had suddenly dropped from him; he was brisk and alert,
						and his over-large eyes were fixed upon Clifford keenly. Clifford knew that there was
						little chance of deceiving this holder of the threads of destiny in a direct encounter. 
					"I came here, Loveman, to ask you for the address of Mary Regan."



					

					Loveman looked puzzled. "Mary Regan -- do I know her?"
					Was there something behind this evasion? "You remember her if you remember getting
						Bradley off. She was in that case."
					"Oh, yes, I remember: slender -- dark -- handsome. But I have n't seen her since the
						trial."
					"I don't mean to call you anything, Loveman, -- but I was told you were recently seen
						with her in public."
					"Where?"
					"At the Grand Alcazar -- for dinner -- three nights ago."
					Loveman smiled. "You've caught me. I own up. But my fib was a gentleman's lie."
					"How so?"
					"She did n't want it known that she was in New York."
					"Why not?"
					"Search me. Perhaps just a girl's whim."
					"Do you know where I can find her?"
					"Have n't the slightest idea. I was with her more or less by accident. I was taking
						care of her merely for a couple of hours -- substituting for a friend of hers."
					Clifford felt sure the little man was lying; but he also felt sure he could get out of
						Loveman nothing Loveman preferred not to tell. All the brains of the Bar Association had
						not been able to do this when Loveman had been before that body on charges of
						unprofessional conduct.


					

					"By the by, Clifford, what's your interest in the young lady?"
					"Her family heard she was back, and engaged me to locate her."
					Loveman, looking keenly at Clifford, did not betray whether or not he recognized this
						as prevarication. Clifford stood up.
					"Well, as you were my only clue, I might as well give the matter up. Sorry to have
						bothered you. Good-morning."
					"Oh, you'll find her -- you have the reputation of doing whatever you start out to do.
						Don't hurry away. I've got some new first editions I want to show you. But pardon me for
						just a moment." He scratched a line upon a sheet of paper, rang, and handed the folded
						sheet to the Japanese butler, who silently withdrew. "Now!" he cried briskly, and began
						to talk enthusiastically over half a dozen stained and musty volumes.
					Half an hour later the noiseless butler appeared, bearing a card. Loveman begged
						Clifford to excuse him, and withdrew -- to renter in five minutes.
					"Something rather curious has just happened,Clifford. A gentleman with whom I've had
						some dealings just called -- I had an inspiration -- I made a suggestion, and -- Well,
						let him speak for himself. Come right in!"
					At this, through the door Loveman had left open, stepped the square, solid figure of
						Bradley.
					"I believe you two are acquainted with each  other,"
						remarked Loveman with his amiable briskness. 
					The two men nodded, and for a moment stood silent. Clifford tried to read Bradley's
						purpose, but Bradley's powerful face, with its small, brilliant eyes, was as controlled
						and reticent as in the days, now over a year gone, when Bradley used to give him orders
						at Police Headquarters.
					"H'are you, Clifford." The voice was the same even, heavy bass.
					"First-class, Bradley."
					"Chairs, gentlemen," put in Loveman; and when they were seated: "Shall I say it,
						Bradley, or will you?"
					"I'll say it." Without preface, or reference to the past, Bradley was in the midst of
						things. "I'm building up a big business, Clifford. Another year or so, and it'll be the
						biggest private detective agency in the country. It's already getting too big for one
						man to manage; besides, there are certain kinds of cases that another man can handle
						better than I can. I've been looking over the field for the right man. Clifford, I've
						decided you're this right man, and I want to ask you if you'd be willing to go into
						partnership." 
					"Don't speak yet -- think it over for a minute," put in Loveman. "You two have had your
						little differences, but it ought to be plain to both of you that there's more in it for
						you two working together than fighting each other."



					
					Clifford managed to maintain a composed exterior, but within he was bewilderment.
						Certainly Bradley was a most amazing man!
					Clifford thought swiftly, if somewhat dazedly. Was this a trap? It might be -- probably
						was, in view of what had previously passed between them.
					But then again -- it might not be a trap. Bradley's offer, on the face of it, was a
						good business proposition, advantageous to both parties. It was a commonplace of
						business and politics and police affairs, that competitors and even deadly enemies may
						scratch the past off the books and combine in a common effort when they vision a profit
						sufficiently large in such a procedure.
					And profit there certainly would be in Bradley's proposition -- big profit. First,
						would be the original profit of the large fees which clients would pay to have
						information secured for them. And second, -- if the agency were to be run as most other
						private detective agencies, and on this Bradley would doubtless insist, -- there would
						be the usual large profits secured through the pleasant and easy device of blackmailing
						clients by threatening to reveal to the public the scandals they had been paid privately
						to uncover and corroborate. Beyond a doubt, tremendous profits!
					Yes, it might not be a trap. It might be just a a plain business proposition. It might
						be -- 
					Another thought: It might be a bribe!
					Yes, whatever else it might be, it also was certainly  a
						bribe. But to buy him away from what? ... From what?.. .
					"It's a good proposition -- yes?" prompted Loveman. 
					Though Clifford had taken time to think, his decision had been made the very moment he
						had understood Bradley's proposition.
					"As you say, Bradley, there's big money in it, and it's a great chance for the right
						party. I want to thank you for considering me and offering me the chance. But I never
						expect to build up a big business, and such cases as I do take on I want to handle
						personally and in my own way."
					Bradley's square face showed not the slightest change. "That's your privilege, to do
						things the way you like. Glad I spoke to you about it, though."
					"That's another good inspiration I had that's gone on the rocks," humorously complained
						Loveman - "as bum a guesser here as when I backed Nina Cordova in 'Orange Blossoms.'" He
						followed Clifford to the door, a hand upon his arm. "Anyhow, I may want to be shoving
						some business your way."
					"Thanks." Clifford nodded to Bradley, and Bradley nodded back, his face the same grim
						mask as ever.

				
				

				

					CHAPTER IV
					

					
						AS MARY SEES HERSELF
					


					As Clifford went out it seemed to him, for the moment, that his
						efforts thus far had resulted only in bringing him into contact with affairs far removed
						from his main business. But the next moment experience reminded him that nothing in life
						was irrelevant. Might not these seemingly unrelated fragments be revealed as closely
						articulated parts of a great drama of life whose working-out lay in the unvisioned
						future?
					Anyhow, he had new questions to put to himself. What was behind Loveman's suave
						statement that he knew nothing of Mary Regan? And what behind Bradley's offer of
						partnership? They meant something: and the more Clifford thought, the more was he
						convinced that Loveman was in whatever business might be brewing; and since Loveman was
						in it, it was safely and adroitly based upon the weakness, vanity, or ambition of our
						common human nature.
					The sense, though he had little definite basis for it, that Mary was vitally concerned
						in this impenetrable business, that she was perhaps the chief victim of its hidden
						workings and of its dangers, grew in Clifford with every moment. He simply had to find
						her!


					

					Hoping against hope, Clifford daily expected a note from Mary Regan -- for he could not
						wholly discount her promise -- but no note came. And though Uncle George, Slant-Face,
						and Lieutenant Jimmie Kelly, in their divers manners, were all looking for Mary, none
						during the next four days reported a trace of her. Nor did Commissioner Thorne, with his
						larger resources, turn up a single clue. She seemed to have vanished utterly.
					All these days Clifford himself kept doggedly to the tedious routine of centering his
						personal endeavors upon Peter Loveman -- following that dapper gentleman from home to
						office, to court-rooms, to restaurants on Broadway or the Avenue for his substitute for
						afternoon tea, to his home again to dress, then to the long evening's schedule of
						pleasures -- taking rest only during the periods when Loveman was held in court, or
						during the five hours between three and 8 A.M. that Loveman allowed
						himself for sleep.
					On the seventh afternoon, while Loveman was tied up in court, and while Clifford was
						spending an hour at home, a note was delivered him by messenger. It read: -- 
							See me at headquarters at your earliest convenience. THORNE.
						

					Clifford considered. Then he sent back the message, "Will try to come at five." It was
						now three o'clock; Loveman would be out of court at half-past  three or four. He had decided that the best procedure was to follow Loveman
						from court to club or restaurant, and then if the lawyer seemed settled, as usually was
						the case, he could safely slip down to Police Headquarters.
					At four o'clock Clifford saw Loveman leave the Criminal Courts Building and step into
						the closed car he had seen Loveman and Mary Regan enter seven nights earlier in front of
						the Grand Alcazar. Clifford, at a discreet distance, followed in a taxi. The big car,
						after twisting about through the region of clubs and restaurants, deposited Loveman
						before a great hotel on Fifth Avenue, The Grantham. Clifford, following him in, saw
						Loveman address the perfect young blonde who sat at a switchboard within a grilled
						enclosure, wait while the blonde announced his name through the telephone, then saw him
						make for the elevators.
					Clifford waited several minutes, then himself approached the deity of the switchboard.
						"I want to get in touch with Mr. Loveman at once, and I believe he's calling here."
					"Yes, on Mrs. Gardner -- twelfth floor, Apartment M. Shall I 'phone up you're
						here?"
					"I guess I'll not interrupt him. I'll catch him when he comes down." The blonde,
						Clifford had at once divined, was the sort not averse to talk. "I wonder if this is the
						Mrs. Gardner I know," he said easily. "What's she like?"
					"Never really seen her," returned the blonde.  "Has all
						her meals in her suite. Goes out only at night -- about nine, when everything's dead
						here -- just for an hour's motor ride. She's always in black, and veiled. Guess she's a
						widow."
					A little more chat and Clifford drifted into the hotel bar, from which he could watch
						the elevators. He sipped his Vichy with a casual, lounging air that required his best
						acting. Could that Mrs. Gardner be Mary Regan? And if she was Mary Regan, was she also
						truly Mrs. Gardner?
					Half an hour passed; then Loveman came out of one of the elevators. Clifford had a
						moment's fear that the blonde would tell him that a caller had made inquiry for him; but
						the blonde was answering the questions of a guest and did not see Loveman go out.
						Clifford allowed a few more minutes to pass, then he approached the blonde's cage with a
						brisk air.
					"There's something Mr. Loveman forgot to say to Mrs. Gardner, and he asked me to come
						back and tell her. Just say it's Mr. Loveman calling again."
					The girl spoke through the telephone as directed; then, "You're to go right up."
					Tingling with suspense, Clifford shot up to the twelfth floor and rang the bell of
						Apartment M. The door was promptly opened, and without waiting for the maid to cry a
						warning because of this suddenly altered Mr. Loveman, Clifford walked quickly past her
						through a little hallway into a sitting-room. At a window, looking down into the Avenue
						stood a  slender figure in a gown of gold-brown chiffon
						velvet, softly touched with fur. She was Mary Regan.
					"Sit down, Mr. Loveman," she said, not turning. And then after a pause she added a bit
						impatiently, but in that distant, composed tone she had so often used toward him in
						other days: "Well, what else is there? Have n't I already promised to follow your
						instructions in every detail?"
					Clifford did not reply, and his silence caused her to turn. At sight of him the tint of
						autumn rose left her dark face.
					"Mr. Clifford!" she breathed.
					"Good-afternoon --" He hesitated; the last time he had spoken to her, six months
						before, he had called her Mary. "Good-afternoon, Miss Regan."
					And then the fear that was in him caused him quickly to add, "Or should I say Mrs.
						Gardner?"
					"I am still Mary Regan." She moved nearer. "You here! The name you sent up was Mr.
						Loveman." 
					"I used Mr. Loveman's name because I thought if I sent my own you would refuse to see
						me."
					"Why?"
					He had searched her out primarily to learn the danger she was in and to save her from
						it, but here he was in the first moment speaking of himself. "I reasoned that you did
						not want to see me from the fact that you have been in town a week and have sent me no
						word. And I thought, after your promise --" 


					

					He could not finish. She motioned him to be seated, herself took a chair, and there was
						a moment's pause. Pale, a strained composure in her face, she was wondrously striking in
						the gold-brown velvet with its margin of fur; she seemed to have matured, yet to have
						grown no older; and never before had she seemed more poignantly desirable to him. The
						old questions that had haunted him for six months, surged up and he was almost choked
						with the immanence of the answer to them. Had there come the change that they had talked
						about? Had she reached the decision that he had so long been waiting for?
					At length she spoke, and the contralto warmth and color of her voice were subdued to a
						neutral monotone. "I could have sent you word," she said. "But I have no excuse to
						offer, and prefer not to explain."
					"You know what I've been hoping for -- and waiting for," he said with difficulty. "You
						have not forgotten that last night in Washington Square?"
					"No. And you have not forgotten the point I then insisted upon -- that I wanted to go
						off, alone, to examine myself and try to learn whether I was really the sort of woman
						you declared me to be."
					"I remember. And now that you have been away, and come back?"
					Her voice was steady. "I have learned I am not that kind of woman."
					"No?"


					

					"I have learned that I do not look upon life -- that is life for myself -- in the way
						you thought I would."
					"Just what do you mean?"
					"I know now that I am by nature more worldly than you believed me."
					He grew suddenly sick at her even words. "I was hoping that you would have decided that
						you cared for me."
					"I am and always shall be grateful to you for the things you did for me, and I shall
						always appreciate your high opinion of the qualities you believed to exist in me. You
						were kind and generous -- and I shall never forget."
					"But you have no other feeling -- toward me?"
					She shook her head.
					"Then this is final -- as far as my hopes are concerned," he whispered dryly. He was
						dazed; too dazed to note that she had grown even more pale than a few moments before and
						that her hands were gripping folds of the velvet gown.
					Presently he tried to pull himself together. He remembered the main purpose of his
						presence here.
					"But at least you will let me help you?"
					"Certainly -- if I need you."
					He leaned closer. "You never needed me more than now!"
					"For what reason?"
					"You are in danger -- great danger!"
					She started, and gazed at him with a sharp penetration 
						which even at that moment struck him as peculiar. "In what danger?"
					Her question took him back. In his intensity he had forgotten that he knew so little
						that was definite.
					"I thought you would know," he confessed. And then, with a ring of certainty, "If you
						do not know yourself to be in danger, then why are you in hiding?" 
					She ignored his last sentence. "I am in no danger of which I am conscious."
					He seized upon the one point he was certain of. "But you have been seeing Peter
						Loveman. I hope you are not letting him get control of your affairs."
					"Mr. Loveman has merely been giving me some friendly advice. He is a very able
						lawyer."
					"There is no abler lawyer in New York than Peter Loveman. But Peter Loveman cannot be
						trusted."
					"I am not trusting him -- very far." She spoke with that supreme self-confidence that
						had always characterized her. "And I believe I can take care of myself." This last she
						added coldly, yet not unkindly.
					Clifford felt himself baffled. And then, suddenly, he remembered another possible
						source of danger to her -- or at least of danger to that Mary Regan he had believed her
						to be. Could she, as the worldly- wise old Uncle George had suggested, have felt the
						pull of old associations, old points of view, and have reverted --
					But even as he was thinking of this, she with her remarkable keenness had read his
						mind. "Don't  worry about that. I have no intention of
						going back to the sort of things I once tried to do, and you stopped me from doing."
					"I'm glad of that," he said simply. And then he added, "But still I feel you are in
						some great vague danger."
					"What?" she queried as before. "I am here of my own choice. I go and come as I please.
						Whatever I may now be doing I do of my own free will."
					"Then you have a plan?"
					She was silent a long moment, all the while gazing at him steadily. Then she replied,
						"I have."
					"May I ask what it is?"
					"You have earned the right. As Robert Clifford, the man, you might not approve of it.
						As Robert Clifford, detective, you can find nothing wrong. Beyond this I can tell you
						nothing -- now."
					He felt shut out -- placed at a far distance -- and felt the dizzy sickness once more
						come on him. He had met her again, after long waiting, after long search -- and this was
						the poor ending of it all!
					He saw her glance furtively at a gilded clock. Awkwardly he arose.
					"I've kept you too long," he mumbled.
					She made no polite denial, but also stood up. He started out -- and found he could not
						go.
					He turned. "Please tell me two other things. First, why are you in hiding?"
					"That I must be excused from answering."
					"Is it part of your plan?"



					

					She hesitated, then nodded.
					"And your calling yourself Mrs. Gardner -- is that, too, a part of your plan?"
					"Yes -- to the extent that I am temporarily using it to hide behind. Now you must go --
						please!"
					"Good-bye -- I won't bother you any further."
					Sick, bewildered, and with as great a fear as when he entered, Clifford started out.
						But at that moment there was a ring at the doorbell.
					"Why did n't you go before!" cried Mary; and then, seizing his arm, "Wait, you must n't
						go now!"
					" Why?"
					"It would be misunderstood."
					"Then you know who that is?"
					"Yes."
					"Is it Peter Loveman?"
					"No" Her dark eyes gazed at him very straight; she spoke rapidly. "You are an old
						acquaintance -- you met me in Paris before the war broke out -- that's all you really
						know about me. Except that my name is Mary Regan."
					"I'll play the part," said Clifford.
					"Sit there by the window."
					Clifford obeyed, more dazed than ever, and woneringly watched Mary. She stood in the
						middle of the room, tensely composed. The maid had answered the bell, and Clifford now
						heard a man's voice in the hall -- a familiar voice. The next moment the visitor was
						through the doorway, and Clifford beheld that likable young man-about-town, Jack
						Morton.


					

					But Jack Morton saw only Mary, and his face flushed with delight. "Mary!" he cried and
						crossed to her with open arms. Without hesitation she stepped forward and her lips met
						his.
					Clifford experienced such a swift onrush of dizziness and sickness that he barely kept
						his seat.
					After a moment Mary drew away from Morton. "Jack, I want to introduce an old
						acquaintance to you -- Mr. Clifford."
					"Bob Clifford -- you here!" cried Morton. "You know Miss Regan?"
					Clifford remembered his lines. "I met Miss Regan in Paris before the outbreak of the
						war."
					Mary held her pale face steadily upon Clifford. "I suppose, Jack, Mr. Clifford might as
						well know the truth."
					"After what he's seen I guess he knows it." Young Morton, a glowing smile on his
						pleasant face, held out his hand. "Congratulate me, Bob!"
					Clifford took the hand. "You-you are married?"
					" We are going to be -- as soon as it's safe."
					"Safe?"
					"You see my --"
					"Mr. Clifford does not need to know that," Mary quickly interrupted.
					"Why --" Clifford stared; gulped. "I did not even know you were acquainted."
					"We were not, till three months ago." Morton grinned happily. He slipped his arm about
						Mary and Mary allowed it to remain. "Remember my  telling
						you the other night about my being away, far from the madding crowd? -- in a place where
						they don't raise a thing but isolation? Well, that's where I met Mary -- at Pine
						Mountain Lodge. Was n't that some coincidence, Bob?"
					Clifford agreed that it was. He looked searchingly at Mary; but her pale, proud face
						met his eyes with a steadfast gaze that was blank of any offer to apologize or
						explain.
					"Here's wishing you luck, Morton," Clifford said with a control that surprised himself.
						He gave Mary Regan a look that was quite as composed as her own. "And you, Miss Regan, I
						hope that all your best dreams come true."
					He maintained his control until he had managed a very decent exit. But out in the
						corridor, he leaned against the wall, a very sick man, with ejaculations and questions
						stabbing him through and through. This, then, was what his long waiting had come to, his
						hopes and his dreams of a different Mary Regan! This affair with Jack Morton, a good
						enough fellow of his sort, that was her plan! ... Yes, but what lay behind that plan?
						... And did she care for Morton? ... And why had she not frankly written him of her
						purpose? ... And Peter Loveman, where did Loveman come in? ... And Bradley, guide and
						protector of young Morton, what might be Bradley's part? ... And what kind of person,
						after these months, was really behind that exterior which Mary Regan had presented him?
						...


					
					In bitter revulsion Clifford straightened up and walked away. What she was, and what
						she was doing, and what she had got herself in for, these matters were now none of his
						affairs. For him Mary Regan was a closed incident.

				
				


				

					CHAPTER V
					

					
						CLIFFORD HAS A NEW PURPOSE
					

					HALF an hour later Clifford entered the octagonal reception room at
						Police Headquarters and sent his name in to Commissioner Thorne. Word came back that
						Thorne was engaged and would be so for half an hour; but in the meantime would n't
						Clifford visit about the building.
					Clifford descended to the great corridor on the main floor. Here he met captains and
						lieutenants and first-grade detectives -- old friends, with whom, until the events that
						had sent him out of the Department, he had worked for close upon a decade. They treated
						him with a respect that, coming after his scene with Mary Regan, was soothing to his
						rasped spirit. The very surroundings, too, affected him -- begot in him a formless
						longing; in a way it was like coming back to one's home town.
					Here, too, he ran into little Jimmie Kelly. With Jimmie he descended to the pistol
						range in the subcellar, and for half an hour they practiced with the regulation police
						revolvers, which recoil like ancient shotguns -- their targets those little posters seen
						everywhere, headed "Wanted for Murder," over the heart of the pictured fugitive an inch
						circle of white paper to serve as bull's-eye. And then 
						they practiced with Jimmie's pistol, a .25 automatic so tiny that it could lie in a
						closed hand and not be seen.
					"Wish you were back here with us, Bob," remarked Jimmie when Clifford announced that he
						was due up in the Chief's office. "It would be great stuff -- working with you
						again!"
					There was hearty sincerity in Jimmie's voice; and the vague longing begot by it was
						still upon Clifford when at length he was seated beside Commissioner Thorne's desk.
					"Clifford," said the Commissioner briskly, his lean, Scotch-Irish face alive with
						purpose, "I'm going to lay all my cards, face up, on the table. I asked you to meet me
						down here, instead of up town, for the sake of the effect on you. That's why I made you
						wait, and asked you to visit about. I wanted you to feel the old tug of
						Headquarters."
					"I guess I've felt it all right, Chief."
					"That's good. Clifford, six months ago I asked you to become Second Deputy
						Commissioner. For your own reasons you refused. I hope you've changed your mind, for I'm
						now again asking you to take the place."
					To be Second Deputy Chief of New York's Detective Bureau! -- Clifford felt a leaping
						thrill -- a swift reaction from the heaviness and bitterness which had been upon him
						since his scene with Mary Regan. He considered for a moment. The controlling reason for
						his previous declination, his knowledge  that Mary Regan
						would refuse him if he continued official police work because she believed she would
						interfere with his career -- this reason Mary Regan herself had just wiped out. He had
						lost enough because of her. Here was big work to do. Here was a big career.
					Clifford looked up. "I accept, Chief," he said with an energy almost fierce. "And I'm
						glad and proud to accept. And I'll give the job the best that's in me."
					"Bully for you!" cried Thorne, seizing his hand.
					There was a minute's further exchange of thanks and congratulations. Then Thorne
						continued:
					"There's a particular situation I want you to take care of. I believe in the need of
						pleasure as much as any man. But the providing of pleasure in this city has become a
						vast business. I'm not referring to the theaters; I'm thinking of the restaurants, roof-
						gardens, dancing places, things like that -- high and low. And I'm thinking especially
						of the swellest places, and of some of the presumably most respectable places. These
						establishments have bred a new variety of specialists, astute men, astute women, who
						entangle and victimize the pleasure- seekers. Especially since women began to go about
						so freely to the dancing places, and it became so easy to make acquaintances, there have
						developed such opportunities -- God, if the public only guessed a tenth of what is
						dribbling in to us! --and even we never get rumors of a tenth of what actually  happens. But you know this situation better than I do."
					"I've had to learn something about it," said Clifford. 
					"I want the facts. I want the situation cleaned out. You've got a free hand -- use as
						many men as you like -- follow your own plans."
					"I'll be on the job at once," said Clifford.
					"Good stuff!" cried Thorne enthusiastically. "And if you succeed -- and I know you will
						-- it will be a big thing for the Department, a big thing for me, and we'll try to make
						it a big thing for you!"
					This new interest so promptly and exactly fitted the sudden emptiness in Clifford's
						life that almost without thinking he was impelled to ask, "Has anything happened, Chief,
						to cause you to make me this offer just now?"
					Thorne regarded Clifford with a curious, thoughtful air. "I wonder if I should tell
						you," he said slowly; and then: "Well, the fact is, Clifford, I have been holding a
						little something back from you."
					"Something about what, Chief?"
					"About you -- and a woman."
					" Yes -- go on!"
					"Six months ago a young woman called on me at my hotel, and asked me if I had offered
						you the position of Chief of the Detective Bureau. I said that I had, and that you had
						declined. She then asked me if I still wanted you. I said yes, if I could  get you. That was all that passed between us. She thanked me
						and went away."
					"She was Mary Regan," said Clifford.
					"She was."
					"And is that all that has happened?"
					"To-day I had a note from her, without date or address, advising me to offer you the
						position again, and to keep on offering it to you until you accepted."
					Something was happening within Clifford, though he did not know what it was --
						something that set brain whirling and heart beating at a swifter tempo. "I just left
						her," he said with mechanical calm. "She's going to marry a man named Jack Morton."
					"So I have just learned."
					"How?"
					"Some of my men have been covering Bradley and Loveman. Loveman's house telephone is
						tapped, and a few threads have been picked up. Miss Regan believes she is doing what she
						is doing because she wants to, and from her own motives. But Bradley and Loveman are
						behind it."
					"In what way?" cried Clifford.
					"Bradley, as you know, is a sort of private watchman over young Morton. Loveman has
						handled a lot of delicate matters for the father. The elder Morton is a ruthless egoist,
						an able man of big affairs, but remarkable for neither business nor personal morality.
						The son you are acquainted with. You can see the opportunities here for such a
						combination as Bradley and Loveman."



					
					"Yes. But where does Mary Regan come in?"
					"Bradley and Loveman are using her now, and expect to use her in the future."
					"Does she know she is being used?"
					"I'm certain she does not even guess it."
					"Then how did they ever get her into it this far?"
					"I do not know."
					"But surely," cried Clifford, "You must have some idea of what their plan is?"
					"Only that I surmise that it is one individual case of the general situation concerning
						which I just spoke to you -- about how very clever persons have made a subtle business
						out of the manner in which the city's Big Pleasure reacts upon human ambitions and human
						frailties. Any information more definite than this it will be part of your job to
						get."
					Abruptly Clifford stood up and strode to a window and stood gazing vacantly at a huge
						candy factory across Broome Street -- his whole being now wildly athrob, his brain
						working swiftly though incoherently. What might it not mean, Mary Regan's showing this
						concern to see that he accepted the position he had once refused because of her?... And
						how much did she really care for Morton? ... And might there not be motives, deeper and
						other than he had guessed, that had caused her to treat him so cavalierly?... And the
						menace of Loveman and of Bradley --
					Abruptly Clifford turned about on Thorne.  "Chief, I'm
						sorry to take back my word -- but I cannot accept that job as Chief of Detectives."
					"Why not?" cried the astounded Thorne.
					"That I can't explain just now. But though I can't take the job, I'll do all I can in a
						personal way to help handle that condition you were speaking about. You'll excuse me,
						Chief, but I've got to do a lot of quick thinking."
					Leaving Thorne fairly gasping at this swift transition, Clifford strode out of the
						office and out of Police Headquarters. Two minutes later he was in a telephone booth in
						a saloon across the way and was asking the Grantham Hotel, in which he had left Mary
						Regan an hour before, for "Mrs. Gardner." Soon Mary's cool, even voice sounded over the
						wire.
					"This is Robert Clifford," he said. "May I see you again -- for just a few
						minutes?"
					There was a long silence; then the cool voice queried: "Alone?"
					"If you please."
					Another silence. He was beginning to fear that she had hung up, when the cool voice
						spoke again.
					"Very well" -- and this time he heard the receiver click upon its hook.
					He hurried for the Subway. He was athrill with a grim elation. He felt that all that
						had thus far passed between him and Mary Regan was no more than a prelude -- a long
						prelude, to be sure -- and that the big action of their drama lay still before  them. He would fight on, still, for Mary Regan -- to save
						her from herself, to protect her from others!
					But in this, his high moment, he had no prevision of the vagaries of a woman's nature
						he was to encounter -- of a willful, many-elemented woman who had not yet found herself,
						and who had a long road yet to travel before she reached that self-knowledge; and he had
						no prevision of the strange places behind the scenes of pleasure that his new purpose
						was to cause him to penetrate, and no prevision of the strange motives, the strange
						mixtures of human nature, that he was to meet.

				
				
				

					CHAPTER VI
					

					
						MARY SHOWS HER HAND
					



					MARY REGAN stood in the dusk of her sitting-room,
						holding apart the velvet hangings of a window, and gazing far down at the quadruple line
						of motorcars which at this twilight winter hour moves in slow lockstep between
						Thirty-third and Fifty-ninth Streets; and as she vacantly gazed upon the world's
						greatest parade of pleasure vehicles, part of her mind was wondering about her
						approaching interview with Clifford -- and part of her mind, in subconscious preparation
						for this meeting, was automatically reviewing, and checking-up, and reswearing
						allegiance to some of the decisions she had reached concerning herself and the course
						she had chosen. She was somewhat excited; but she felt sure of herself -- very sure!
					During the six months she had been away, she had studied, or believed she had, her own
						nature most carefully, and also her immediate interests, and also the bolder reachings
						of her ambition. She had considered these matters, not sentimentally, -- she hated
						sentiment, she told herself, -- but with cool brain, and with no fear to admit the
						truth. To be sure there had been a swift seizure and possession of her by emotion when
						she and Clifford had kissed that  summer dawn long ago in
						Washington Square; and now and again this emotional element had arisen in her with
						appealing energy, but her cool intelligence had always controlled such impulses. What
						did life offer with a police official who was on the square? Nothing! At least nothing
						that she cared for or dreamed of. Honest police officials never got anywhere. And as for
						Clifford, marriage with him would ruin such career for him as might be possible. It
						would never do -- not for either of them.
					What she wanted was altogether different. She knew, for she had
						analyzed herself with the apartness of a scientist. Her former attitude toward crime,
						acquired through a girlhood spent with those cynical gentlemen of the world, her father
						and her Uncle Joe, -- that attitude to be sure was now changed; at least such intentions
						as formerly she had had she now knew to be quiescent; Clifford had influenced her to
						this extent. But though the criminal impulses given her by her training were gone, the
						worldly attitude and instincts begotten by that training still remained. She believed
						herself a worldling. ling; and more, she believed herself a competent She believed she
						had no illusions about herself. The things in life that were worth while -- so in her
						confident youthfulness she decided -- were luxury, admiration, the pleasures that money
						could buy. And these things she believed she could win.
					This much, in her retreat, she had already decided before Jack Morton had appeared in
						the quiet countryside.  The coming of Jack, with the
						opportunities represented by his amiable person, had made her even more decided.
					And so, as she now gazed down through the winter dusk upon the shifting motor-tops, she
						was very certain of herself despite her palpitant expectation over Clifford's coming --
						very confident of herself, and what she was, and what she was going to do, and what she
						was going to be: just as many another young woman, of a perhaps more careful rearing,
						was preeningly confident of herself, in those limousines far below her. For this was the
						time of all times, and the place of all places, that young women were trained to dream
						of themselves; and here, also, often the dreams came gorgeously true -- for a time!
						...
					The ring of her apartment bell brought Mary sharply from her thoughts. Switching on the
						lights, she opened the door and admitted Clifford into her sitting-room. She spoke
						first, with a formality that held him at a distance.
					"I consented to see you because an hour or two ago you discovered a private matter of
						mine, and I neglected to ask you to keep it silent."
					"You refer to your engagement to Jack Morton?"
					"I do. Of course you will say nothing about it."
					"That you must leave to my discretion."
					"You mean you are going to tell?" she demanded. He tried to keep his business here to
						the front of his mind, but now, as he sat face to face with her,  the old question recurred for which he seemed able to reach no final answer:
						what was she really like beneath this exterior she showed him? -- what might she be
						beneath and within the self she supposed herself to be?
					"I mean that I am reserving the right to do exactly what I please," he replied, looking
						at her squarely. "This business of your secret engagement is also what made me want to
						see you -- but it is only one of many things. I have done a lot of thinking since I left
						you two hours ago. Also I have just seen Police Commissioner Thorne."
					"Yes?"
					"Mr. Thorne honored me by offering me the position of Chief of the Detective Bureau. I
						accepted the position --"
					"Then I suppose I should address you as -- By the way, just how should one address
						you?"
					"But I immediately withdrew my acceptance," he continued, ignoring the cool irony which
						seemed to come automatically into her voice whenever they met. "I refused because of
						certain things I learned from Thorne about you."
					"About me? What are they?"
					"That's what I want to learn more about -- and from you."
					"Ah -- then you still are a detective?"
					"I suppose I am," still ignoring the irony of her tone. " But just now I primarily am a
						person who is interested in his own affairs as a man."



					

					"Your affairs?" she questioned.
					"Just now your affairs have become my affairs. And I'm hoping that you'll help me by
						frankly answering my questions."
					"Questions about what?"
					"About yourself."
					"Such as?"
					"Instead of leaving it for me to discover by accident, why did you not frankly tell me
						of your intention to marry some one else? -- when you knew what for six months I had
						been hoping for. How much do you care for Jack Morton?"
					His determined face, and the flashing memories of what he had tried to do for her,
						checked the sharp replies that instinctively started for her lips. The steady gaze of
						his intense eyes sent a warm tremor through her, gave her a swift, tingling pleasure.
						But that very pleasure was a warning to her: such feeling in her was only aberration --
						the life signs of some of her less important elements, which she had adjudged to be a
						menace to her success and which she must therefore suppress. The next moment she had
						full control of herself -- and she had decided on what should be her course with
						him.
					"You seem to regard me as a mystery," she remarked with tantalizing coolness.
					"You are one -- in a degree. And I want it solved."
					"There is nothing in the least mysterious about me," she said in her even tone. "I'll
						tell you all you  need to know. You may be seated if you
						like." And after they were both in chairs: "First about Mr. Morton. He is a pleasant,
						agreeable gentleman. He has money and position."
					"You love him?"
					"I like him."
					"You are marrying him, then, because it is a good business proposition -- to put it
						brutally."
					She met his flushed face calmly. "That is not putting it brutally. Rather, it is merely
						putting it honestly." This she had decided must be made the final interview between
						them. "I told you, when you were here two hours ago, that I had discovered that I am not
						at all the woman you believed lay undeveloped in me. You may call me worldly -- selfish
						-- ambitious. And you will be tremendously right."
					He looked at her hard, and was silent a moment. "But that is n't answering my first
						question and all it implied: why did n't you write me before you returned to New York?
						Why did n't you frankly tell me of your intended marriage?"
					She lifted her shoulders ever so slightly. "It must have been because I never thought
						of it."
					He flushed, but she met his look with unabashed composure. She had lied, but she had
						lied easily, for the lie had been carefully premeditated. When, during her absence, her
						mind's decision had gone against Clifford, she had considered what would be the most
						effective method of giving undebatable  conclusion to the
						affair; and had decided upon this course that she had followed. No need for letters --
						no chance for sentimental pleading to alter her mind; it would be all over, and ended,
						before he knew a thing. Further, since the break had to come, it appealed to her pride
						to seem superior and indifferent.
					Clifford was angry, but he contained himself. "To go on: was your meeting with Mr.
						Morton in that out-of-the-way spot, Pine Mountain Lodge, pure coincidence as he said? --
						or did cunning brains bring it about?"
					"You mean, my cunning brains?" Two spots of conscious color appeared in her cheeks.
					"I do not mean you. Did some one else, perhaps without your knowledge at the time, plan
						that you should meet?"
					"What are you driving at?" she demanded sharply.
					"I don't know myself yet -- exactly."
					"Who could have planned our meeting? As you know, I went to Pine Mountain Lodge to be
						alone. Mr. Morton, not knowing of my presence there or even of my existence, came to
						Pine Mountain to rest up. We could n't help meeting, since the lodge is the only place
						at which one can stay. That's all there is to this amazing mystery."
					"Undoubtedly all you see. But the coincidence explanation does n't explain everything.
						Some one may have been behind Jack Morton's going."
					"Who? In what way? And for what reason?"



					

					"Those are things to be found out." He looked at her steadily for a moment. "I asked
						you this before, but I am going to ask it again: why are you here in hiding?"
					"After all, I guess I don't mind telling you in the least," she returned coolly, with a
						sudden perverse gratification in revealing what she knew he could not like in her. Also
						she felt that here was another detail by which she could make Clifford feel the utter
						finality of the break between them. "Jack and I came to New York intending to be married
						the next day. But the very evening of the day we arrived, Jack's father unexpectedly
						came to town and appeared at the Biltmore where Jack is staying."
					"Was that before or after the evening I saw you at the Grand Alcazar with Mr.
						Loveman?"
					"You saw me there the evening of the day of my return. Jack was to have had dinner with
						me that night," she added, "and had reserved the table and had asked his friend, Mr.
						Loveman, and then he got tangled up with a friend and could not come. It was that same
						evening that his father arrived in town. I believe this is simple and clear."
					"As far as it goes. But why did you go into hiding?" 
					"Is n't that rather obvious?" she returned with her cool frankness. "Jack and I were
						going to keep our marriage secret -- perhaps for a long time. The appearance of his
						father, with the announcement that he was going to stay with Jack, naturally delayed  our marriage. I insisted that it be postponed until his
						father was away and there was no danger of immediate discovery."
					"And Jack?"
					"Jack was reckless. He was all for getting married right away. But I refused to take
						the risk. Also, under the circumstances, it did n't seem particularly wise to give the
						father a chance to find out about me by our appearing openly together."
					"But you yourself could have gone out openly alone, or with friends."
					"Oh, of course," she said dryly -- "and have run the risk of Jack and his father seeing
						me in public, and learning all about me. No, thank you -- the only way for me has been
						to keep under cover for the present."
					Clifford had felt a great start, but he had suppressed it; and he managed to say quite
						casually: "Of course Jack Morton does n't know who you really are?"
					"Of course not. Oh, I don't mind so much what he might learn about me," she added, a
						bit defiantly. "You police have nothing on me -- not in the way of a conviction, anyhow.
						But it would not help particularly if he learned who my father had been, and that Joe
						Russell is my uncle, and that my brother is Slant-Face Regan."
					"But he'll be sure to learn some day."
					"By that time he'll have become so attached to me that it'll not make much
						difference."



					

					"But there's his father. What about what'll happen when he finds out? All Jack's money
						comes through his father."
					"Oh, his father will come around in the end. You see he's not to know till we get
						ready."
					Clifford looked at her for a long moment of silence.
					"I know what you're thinking; you're thinking I'm just another adventuress," she said
						with a shrug. "But what of that? Every woman is an adventuress who is trying to better
						her position and who is using her head to do it. And that's just what every woman is
						doing!"
					"I was not thinking chiefly of that; I was thinking of Peter Loveman. Did he suggest
						that you go into hiding?"
					"When Jack told him of our engagement, he said he did n't want to know anything about
						it, he wanted to keep out of any such affair. But when he learned Jack's father was in
						town, he telephoned me to keep out of the way."
					"You've known Loveman some time?"
					"Since I came back to America. He's been Uncle Joe's lawyer; and naturally they're
						friends."
					"And he could have known you were in Pine Mountain Lodge?"
					"Of course Uncle Joe might have told him."
					Clifford considered a moment. "Tell me, just what has Mr. Loveman had to do with this
						affair?"
					"I have already told you everything I know."
					Clifford was convinced that in this she was telling  him
						the truth. But all his senses informed him that somewhere, working in some manner,
						behind this affair was Peter Loveman, playing with his master's subtlety upon human
						frailties, passions, and ambitions. Undoubtedly Mary Regan was being used. Undoubtedly
						also Commissioner Thorne had been right when he had declared that Mary Regan had no
						suspicion that she was being used, that she believed that whatever she was doing she was
						doing of her own free will.
					He had put to her all the questions he had intended; and as for a moment he sat gazing
						at her -- so composed, so worldly-looking, and so very young to be saying such things as
						she had just said -- the more personal questions, which had shaken him so often,
						throbbed through him like so many gigantic and fiery pulse-beats: Was she through and
						through and unchangeably this worldly, calculating Mary Regan that she had so carefully
						depicted for him -- or was it all just a pose? Or might she believe herself sincere in
						this sophistication -- and yet deep down in her might there be the living essence of a
						very different Mary Regan that she tried to deny and ignore? He could not forget that
						moment in Washington Square when her soul had seemed unlocked; he could not forget her
						kiss ...
					Clifford stood up as though his intention was to leave. She also rose. His trifling
						strategy achieved its end -- physical proximity and the chance which sitting at formal
						distance in chairs did not permit.  Suddenly he gripped her
						two shoulders; and the energy and purpose and feeling which he had kept in restraint
						during the past minutes now burst forth.
					"Listen to me, Mary Regan," he declared tensely. "You are not going to marry Jack
						Morton! You hear me!"
					She was so startled at the change in him that she was hardly aware of the hands
						clutching her shoulders. "Why not?"
					His words rushed out. " I'm not going to say anything about it's not being square. He's
						not good enough for you! Oh, I don't mean to run down a man I've called my friend. Jack
						Morton is pleasant enough in his way. And you've seen him at his best -- away from the
						lights and Big Pleasure, when he was on his good behavior -- and there are few men who
						can be more agreeable than Jack Morton. But Broadway is likely to get hold of him again!
						And girls! -- no girl is pretty to him for more than six months, and every pretty girl
						is prettier than the last pretty girl! It's just the way Jack is made -- or the way this
						town has made him. I tell you it's an awful mistake!"
					"It's my own mistake I'm making!" Her dark eyes flashed at him. "Take off your
						hands!"
					Instead he clutched her all the tighter. "There's a bigger reason than the mistake.
						Mary, you love me!"
					"Love you!" she ejaculated.
					"Yes, you love me, and you know you love me!"  he declared
						masterfully. The impulse was upon him to sweep her from her announced determination by
						dominating her with a swift power comprised of his own longing for her and her
						reawakened liking for him. "You know you love me, or why did you see Commissioner Thorne
						about me six months ago, and why did you to-day suggest to him that he again offer me
						the place of Chief of the Detective Bureau? You love me, and you thought your marriage
						to me might injure my public career. You don't care how much marriage to Jack Morton may
						injure him. Don't you think I see through you? Don't you think I understand? You're not
						going to marry Jack Morton! You're going to marry me!"
					She had paled -- and her dark eyes, of a brown that was almost a black, were fixed upon
						him widely, in what might have been fear, or bewilderment, or fascination, or all of
						these -- and he felt a trembling go through her body. For a long moment they stood
						tensely thus: he hoping that he had carried the day -- and at the same time poignantly
						wondering what she was about to say or do.
					"You are going to marry me! You are going to marry me!" he repeated after the manner of
						those who seek to work miracles by the power of a forcefully iterated idea.
					He felt her body grow taut; and the startled look of her face gave place to composed
						decision. That moment he knew that he had lost -- for this day at least.


					

					"Please remove your hands!" she commanded in a quiet, edged voice.
					He did not at once obey; his faculties were still so engaged with his struggle to turn
						her aside, and with his failure, that he scarcely heard her.
					"Please remove your hands!" she repeated, her voice not going up by so much as a
						semi-tone.
					His hands fell to his sides.
					"Despite what you say, Mr. Clifford," she continued in the same even voice of calm
						decision, "I am not going to marry you, and I am going to marry Mr. Morton."
					He was composed again. "Perhaps you may never marry me," he returned grimly. "But you
						certainly will never marry Jack Morton."
					"And why not?"
					"Because I shall prevent it."
					"How?"
					"By any and whatever means seem most effective."
					Her gaze sharpened. Then the red of anger faintly tinted the tawny satin of her
						cheek.
					"You mean to say you would be low enough to tell Jack or his father about me and my
						family?"
					He looked her straight in the face. "You have admitted that that procedure might be
						effective."
					"You would n't dare do that!" And she seized his arm with a grasp no less intense than
						his of a minute before, and glared at him.
					"I'll do exactly what may be necessary, Miss Regan."


					
					"You -- you -- " she gasped. "You have no right to interfere in my affairs!"
					"There is far more to this affair than just You, Miss Regan." With an
						almost impersonal movement he removed her hand from his arm and let it fall. "I must be
						going. But do not forget for a moment that I am going to prevent your marriage, and
						prevent it in whatever way will be most effective."
					He bowed slightly. Standing just where he had left her, she watched him go out, within
						her a dazed commotion of surprise, consternation, suspense -- and, strangely, not quite
						so high an anger toward Clifford as she had felt two moments before.
				
				

				

					CHAPTER VII
					

					
						NINA CORDOVA
					

					YES, he must prevent this marriage, he must block Loveman, he must
						find out Loveman's plan, and he must do all quickly -- but how? To warn the Mortons
						would achieve some of these ends; but he had a strong repugnance to this procedure. He
						would only play this as his last card.
					Clifford thought of Slant-Face; but he realized that Slant-Face would probably have no
						influence with his sister, and possibly the ex-pickpocket might even regard the affair
						from Mary's viewpoint. Also he thought of her Uncle Joe; but the same objection held
						true regarding him, and also the width of the continent made him unavailable. As for
						Commissioner Thorne, he could not be of service in the present stage of affairs. And
						then Clifford thought of Uncle George. Uncle George might possibly give suggestions, for
						Uncle George knew as much about the pleasure life (and what lay beneath it) of Broadway
						and of Broadway's closest territorial relative, Fifth Avenue between the Waldorf and St.
						Patrick's Cathedral, as any other hundred men in New York put together.
					An hour after leaving Mary, Clifford sat in the Grand Alcazar restaurant, looking into
						the bland,  genial, cunning, loose-skinned old face. He had
						just finished telling Uncle George of his discovery of the whereabouts of Mary Regan and
						the other events of the day.
					The old man regarded Clifford with meditative, puckered gaze -- a gaze of somewhat
						peculiar effect, begotten by his lack of eyebrows and eyelashes. "Son," he began slowly,
						"the thing that stands out in this chunk of vers libre you've been
						handing me, is the fact that you're so stuck on that little dame Mary Regan --"
					"Let's leave me, and what I may think of her, out of it," put in Clifford.
					"Don't interrupt, son. You ask me a thing and you've got to let me spiel along in my
						own way" -- which, indeed, was one of the difficulties not to be avoided in consulting
						Uncle George. "Now, you listen to me, son, and you'll hear something out of the original
						book out of which old Solomon and those other wise guys that have been playing big time
						steady for three or four thousand years swiped all their good gags. Son, you're too
						damned monogamous! You're insulting God: what the hell d' you suppose he made so many
						pretty girls for? -- and let the others get wise on how to make themselves pretty? Now,
						I like Mary Regan as well as any male person can who's not her relative and who's not
						trying to be -- but if she tried any of that beautiful female cussedness on me, I'd
						throw her one smiling kiss, mail her a picture post-card of the jumping-off  place, and proceed to admire some of the other works of
						God."
					Uncle George nodded, and started to sip his white wine thinned with sparkling
						water.
					"Thanks, Uncle George. But let's get back -- "
					"Hold on, son. That was just my first sentence. Supposing Mary Regan is trying to put
						something across by holding back a little of the truth -- sort of saving it up for a
						rainy day. Well, what of that? Ain't we all liars? You take it from your Uncle George, a
						superannuated old burglar, president emeritus of that grand old alma
							mater, the University of Broadway, who's played every kind of game with every
						kind of male and female now decorating this earth -- take it from me, son, I've never
						seen the strait and narrow road of truth congested with the traffic. That's one road you
						can speed on, and not even see a cop. So, son, if Mary Regan has been like the rest of
						us, don't hold it especially against her. And her marrying Jack Morton by holding back a
						bit of the evidence, it's not going to hurt him such a lot."
					"I'm thinking of what it may do to her."
					"Why, now, son, a marriage now and then seems to improve a lot of women. And the only
						time a few marriages seem to be a handicap to some women is when they undertake to sign
						their names in full."
					"You're in very good voice this evening, Uncle George. But, if you don't mind, let's
						talk about how to stop that marriage, and how to find out Loveman's game."


					

					"All right -- all right. Now, let's see. You know Nina Cordova, star of that new
						musical show that's a sure-fire frost -- what is it?"
					"'Orange Blossoms.' Yes, I know of her."
					"Then you'll remember that in young Morton's previous Broadway incarnation he had an
						affair with her -- which little Nina broke off sharp and sudden when she got the chance
						a year ago at the star's part in 'The Bridal Wreath'? She's a live proposition: why not
						inject her into the affair?"
					"I've thought of that," said Clifford.
					"H'm. Well, then," Uncle George meditated, "you remember how Jack Morton, when he was
						along here before, used to like his little quart or two or three of champagne? -- and
						how he behaved when he was all lit up? Why not kidnap him from Bradley, give him a
						chance to be his real self again, and then ship him to Mary? This different Jack Morton
						might make her stop and think. Or send him along to his old man -- and when his old man
						saw how the kid had broken training he might do what he's threatened, stop Jack's dough;
						and this might be enough of a jolt to make Mary call the thing off."
					"I've thought of those things, too."
					"You seem to have thought of everything," half grumbled Uncle George. "Well, what's the
						matter with these ways?"
					"For one thing, it would take time to put them across. I've got to act quickly, for
						there's no telling  what she'll do. Besides, before I take
						any action, I'd like to learn how she got into this matter; I'd like to learn just what
						Loveman's and Bradley's part in the game has been, just what they plan to make of it in
						the future."
					"I get you," nodded Uncle George. "So that you can plan your action accordingly. But
						that's some job, son, -- getting in on the inside of the game of such a pair as Bradley
						and Loveman."
					"I know it. It can only be done indirectly." Clifford regarded Uncle George
						thoughtfully for a moment, then suddenly asked: "Do you know Jack Morton's father?"
					"I've met him."
					"Know him well enough to get into a friendly talk with him?"
					"Son," demanded Uncle George in an aggrieved tone, "you mean to insult me by asking if
						I need even to have seen a man before to be his best friend inside of thirty minutes --
						me that could go out now and sell old Andy Carnegie's pig-iron billets back to him as
						gold-bricks!" Uncle George looked at his watch. "Father Morton is staying at the
						Biltmore. It's now six-twenty. I've noticed that he leads himself into the smoking-room
						at six-thirty for a cocktail. I feel a craving for a Biltmore cocktail. Son, just where
						is that building lot in North River located that you want me to sell him?"
					"Could you steer the talk around to his son -- make him doubt Bradley a bit -- say
						something  good about me -- and implant in him the idea
						that he ought to consult me?"
					"Could I? Why don't you write me an act that'd bring out my talents? It's already done
						-- what you going to do next?"
					"That depends on whether Mr. Morton comes to see me, and whether I get anything out of
						him."
					Uncle George heaved himself to his feet. "Come on, son, see me safe aboard a taxi."
						Outside, in the cab, he reached forth and laid a hand on Clifford's shoulder. "Remember,
						son, there's just as good mermaids in the sea as have ever been caught."
					"Bon voyage," said Clifford as the car started.
					The old man, winking a genial, satyr-like wink, blew Clifford a kiss through the open
						window.
					At half-past ten that night Clifford sat at a little table in the Gold Room at the
						Grantham. There had come a message from Uncle George that he should be in this room at
						this hour. Beyond this the message had said nothing.
					Clifford had wandered through the score of big public rooms that comprised the first
						two floors of the Grantham -- the lounges, the parlors, the half-dozen restaurants --
						with the feverish hope that he might glimpse Mary Regan (so little effect had Uncle
						George's wisdom had upon him!), but with no idea of what he should do or say should he
						see her. He had had an impulse to call again at her suite, but had restrained himself
						from that folly. He now glanced through the slowly filling Gold  Room, but he did not sight her. He wondered just where she was -- what she
						was thinking of -- what she was planning. Should he, if all other methods failed, block
						her worldly plans and the as yet unpenetrated scheme of Loveman and Bradley by telling
						the Mortons who she was? He felt himself a cad whenever he thought of it; but, yes, if
						he had to, he would do it! ...
					A hand fell upon his shoulder. "Wake up there, you old crystal-gazer!" called a
						cheerful voice.
					Clifford looked up. Smiling down on him was a cherubic face: a somewhat elderly cherub,
						to be sure, since where usually there is the adornment of divine curls there was the
						glaze of baldness.
					"Sit down, Loveman, and join me in a drink."
					"I'm afraid of you, my boy," answered the famous little lawyer. "You might put poison
						in my cup."
					"Why?"
					"Because I lied to you -- you see, I'm not waiting to be accused," the other smiled
						affably. "I told you I did n't know where Mary Regan was, and after that you followed me
						and I led you right to her. She telephoned me about your finding her. You sure caught me
						dead to rights."
					"I'm afraid I can't do anything with you, Loveman, -- though that was the second fib
						you told me about her."
					"Both gentleman's lies -- told for a lady's sake," amiably explained Loveman. "She did
						n't want her  whereabouts known. But now that you've found
						her, what're you going to do?"
					"I don't know that I can do anything." And then Clifford chanced a shot. "You see, I
						learned that she is secretly engaged to Jack Morton."
					"You don't say!" exclaimed the little man. "That is astounding! Well, well -- I'll have
						a look into that and see what's to be done."
					He rubbed his shining crown in bewildered thoughtfulness, -- Clifford had to admire his
						art as an actor, -- then again was smiling.
					"Wish you'd join me after a while at supper, Clifford. Little party I'm giving Nina
						Cordova -- got to cheer her up a bit, you understand. You know 'Orange Blossoms' is one
						God-awful flivver, and Nina, poor orphan-child, don't know what to do. Gee, but it's a
						rotten show, and what it did n't do to kill itself Nina did for it: she sure is one
						musical- comedy prima donna that ought to be seen and not heard! And even at that, seen
						too oft, familiar with her face -- oh, go ask the box-office man to finish the
						quotation. So I'm giving her this little party to boost her spirits -- though why should
						n't somebody be giving me a party to cheer me up for the twenty thousand United States
						of America dollars that dropped through the bottom of that show?" He gave a moan of mock
						self-sympathy. "Well, you'll join us when the crowd blows in?"
					"Thanks, but I'm waiting for a friend."
					"Break away if you can; be glad to have you."



					

					Clifford watched the strange little notable, behind whose light chatter he knew to be
						the cleverest legal brain of its sort in New York, cross to a small corner table, which
						was reserved for him every night and was known to the waiters here as "Mr. Loveman's
						table." He saw Loveman converse in turn with various people, and in a general way he
						understood; for at this table, during the play hours of the night, Loveman transacted
						many of the affairs too delicate to be brought to his office or his apartment. And he
						saw Loveman, while he chatted, gaze about upon those gathering for supper and dancing.
						There were people here whose family names were daily in the society and Wall Street
						columns -- most of them here with no intent more reprehensible than the restless search
						for pleasure, which in this our present day has become public pleasure. Loveman smiled
						on them most kindly: as why should n't he, thought Clifford, since many of them were
						working for him, though they guessed it not?
					Loveman's party now arrived and were seating themselves at a large table directly
						beside the dancing-floor. There were Jack Morton, his father, Nina Cordova, two other
						actresses, and half a dozen men and women of the smart young society set. Loveman was at
						his best, keeping his party in highest spirits: no man in New York was his superior as
						midnight host.
					As Clifford watched the gay supper progress, he wondered what other of these guests the
						gay Loveman  might be deftly drawing into some distant
						entanglement.
					Presently some one took the chair opposite Clifford. It was Uncle George; and Uncle
						George gave him a slight wink of a lashless eye.
					"While we're on the subject, son," the old man began, "I might remark that I put a bee
						in little Nina's bonnet."
					"Just what have you got me here for?" demanded Clifford.
					"It's always worth while, son, to watch Loveman improve each midnight hour. See how he
						smiles and talks -- and yet, God, how he's working! But you're here, son, because of
						Father Morton; and also, perhaps, to see if Nina's bee buzzes. How about splitting
						fifty-fifty on a ham sandwich?"
					As the two ate the best supper Uncle George could order, Clifford kept his eyes on
						Loveman's party. They were now leaving the table in couples to dance. Nina Cordova, a
						slender blonde with a soft, appealing face and quick, bright eye, was with Jack Morton;
						dancing was something they both did well; and it was easy to see that the slender prima
						donna had more than a dancing interest in her partner. Then Loveman danced with her; and
						in the middle of the dance they halted beside Clifford's table.
					"Finish this with me, Uncle George," coaxed the little star.
					"My dear child," returned the old man, "if  you'd spoken
						to me a little earlier, say bout 1871, I'd have danced with you till that orchestra
						dropped dead. But now, why, I'd just fall apart on the floor. Ask Clifford there."
					She smiled at Clifford and the next moment he was fox-trotting with her. She was
						certainly a marvel of a dancer; also, beneath her ingenue surface, she had a keen brain
						of her own sort; and in her light chatter as they swung about he sensed that she was
						trying to search his mind -- and he sensed also that she was doing this at the
						instigation of Loveman. But he parried so well that he believed she did not even know he
						was fencing.
					"Clever girl, Uncle George," he said when he was back at his table.
					"Son, you said something then," affirmed the old man. "Unless my hunch works wrong
						you'll some day find her mixed up in this affair; and when you do meet up with her, son,
						you'd better forget that, according to the date written down in her press-agent's Bible,
						that dear little child is only twenty-one." 
					Clifford looked over at her thoughtfully. She danced half a dozen dances with Jack
						Morton; and Clifford, watching everything, guessed that the elder Morton was none too
						pleased. And then she danced again with Loveman; and he saw that she was talking
						imperiously to the little lawyer; and if only he could have overheard he might have
						given more weight to Uncle George's prediction that Nina 
						Cordova was to play some considerable part before the final curtain fell.
					"Peter," she was saying, "since 'Orange Blossoms' is such a fizzle, I'm going to quit
						the show business, and marry some nice young man."
					"But, my child, your art!" protested Loveman.
					"My art be damned!" replied the pretty one. "And, Peter, I've decided that the nice
						young man will be Jack Morton."
					Loveman gave her a sharp look. But if he felt any alarm, his voice gave no evidence of
						it.
					"Better think again, dearie. He'll not have forgotten the way you threw him down."
					"Give me a week and I'll make him forget it," she returned confidently.
					"If you are set on getting married, Nina dear, I'll help you find another candidate,"
						said Loveman in his soft, advisory tone. "This town's full of rich young fellows. Just
						look 'em over, make your choice, and I'll help you out with the rest."
					"I don't want any other!"
					"I don't think Jack Morton will do, my dear."
					"Why not?"
					"I think, dearie, that there are other arrangements -- " 
					"You mean that you have other arrangements!" she said sharply.
					"There now, dearie, don't get excited. This town's full of nice men -- "
					"You can't bluff me, Peter! I see through you --  you
						don't want me to marry Jack." The little ingénue was suddenly a little
						fury -- but a composed fury. "Peter, I know a lot," she said quietly, "and unless you
						behave about the way I want you to, I may do something that won't make you awfully
						happy."
					There was no mistaking the threat in that voice, and that threat was not to be
						underrated. Loveman had no intention of yielding; the situation required careful
						handling and perhaps quick action elsewhere; in the meantime the thing to do was to
						temporize.
					"All right, dearie, -- we'll fix it up," he said soothingly. "There's Jack Morton
						waiting for us; I'll turn you right over to him."
					As Clifford saw Nina and young Morton begin a fox-trot, a passing waiter handed
						Clifford a card. On it was engraved, "Mr. James Morton," and around
						the name was scribbled, "Wait for me in the lounge just off the bar."
					Clifford descended to the Grantham's lounge, which was fitted in the manner of the
						smartest and most exclusive of men's clubs. Five minutes later Mr. Morton entered and
						came straight to him. Clifford had already made his private estimate of this man with
						the graying hair and distinguished face: a man whose habit it was to buy men, -- and
						women, too, -- use them, and when finished with them, throw them aside without a thought
						and go on his way.


					

					"I've heard of you, Mr. Clifford," he began, when they were seated in deep chairs
						beside a little table. "They say you are a detective who's absolutely on the
						square."
					"Thank you," said Clifford.
					"I did n't call you down to pay you compliments," the other said incisively, eyeing him
						keenly, "so I'll go right to the point. You know my son?"
					"Yes."
					"It's about Jack I want to see you." Mr. Morton spoke in the compact sentences of a
						master of affairs. "I guess you know he's been some trouble. I'm certain something's in
						the air now. I don't know whether it's that Miss Cordova or something else. I can't get
						anything out of Jack. I've been having him looked over by a private detective; you know
						him -- Bradley; but Bradley does n't seem to be able to learn anything either. I'm not
						one hundred per cent trustful of Bradley: set a detective to catch a detective -- that
						might prove a good idea. Will you undertake the job? -- finding out about Bradley, and
						finding out about my son?"
					"I can't say until I know the situation." Here was opening before him the chance he had
						been working for, but Clifford managed to speak composedly. "If you don't mind telling
						me, just how do things stand?"
					"If you know Jack, you know what his idea of living in New York was a year or six
						months ago. I could n't leave my affairs and come here to look  after him. I ordered my lawyer, Mr. Loveman, to take whatever steps were
						necessary. It was absolutely essential that Jack should take a brace --"
					"Pardon me. Aside from the moral reasons, were there any other reasons for your wanting
						Jack to change his habits?"
					"There was, and still is, an engagement with a young woman back in Chicago. Not exactly
						an engagement, rather an understanding between the families. The match could not be more
						desirable; the young lady has everything."
					"Pardon me -- do I know the young lady you refer to?"
					"You may have heard of her. Her father is Sherwood Jones. She is Miss Maisie
						Jones."
					"I have seen her picture in the illustrated Sunday supplements -- among prominent young
						society girls."
					"Then you can partially understand why I consider the match so desirable. But the
						family at that time objected, and still objects -- until Jack proves that he has settled
						down. Three months ago I came East and delivered an ultimatum."
					"In the presence of Jack alone?" Clifford put in gently.
					"No. Mr. Loveman had been doing his best to control the boy. Naturally he was
						present."
					"And the ultimatum?"
					"I said that he either had to take a brace or I was through with him."


					

					"Let's see whether I get the general idea." Clifford was moving forward carefully. "If
						Jack did n't brace up, he'd have to earn his own money. On the other hand, if he did
						brace up, the idea was that he was to quit New York and marry the young lady you have
						referred to."
					"That's it exactly."
					"Did you suggest any particular plan for his bracing up?"
					"I said he had to spend a period at some quiet place far away from New York."
					"And what did Mr. Loveman think of this idea?"
					"He thought it was just the plan. In fact he said he knew the very place for Jack to go
						to -- Pine Mountain Lodge."
					"Then he suggested Pine Mountain Lodge?"
					"Yes."
					Clifford was silent a moment.
					"You have told Mr. Loveman and Mr. Bradley of your intention to consult me?"
					"No."
					"I suggest that you do not. Is there any other information you can give me?"
					"Nothing else that's definite. But I suspect a lot, and I want to find out what's
						doing. Will you take the case?"
					Clifford spoke guardedly, masking his dislike for the ruthless man before him. "I
						prefer not to consider myself retained by you until I am certain I can  serve you. I'll have to think the situation over, and let
						you know later."
					It was little that Mr. Morton had told Clifford, yet, after Morton had left him, that
						little set Clifford's mind going like a racer. He sat thinking -- thinking; and after a
						time he began to perceive dim outlines of what Loveman's plan might be. And as with
						growing excitement he began to see, he began also to consider what his own course should
						be....
					He looked at his watch. It was half-past three. He started back for the Gold Room, but
						on the way up he saw Loveman and his party leaving. He quickly secured his coat and hat
						and followed them out just in time to see Loveman go off in a taxi with Nina Cordova. He
						was after them in another taxi, a discreet block behind. Five minutes later Loveman set
						Miss Cordova down at her hotel, and went on to his own home.
					Clifford dismissed his taxi, waited ten minutes, then crossed and entered Loveman's
						apartment house.
				

				
				

					CHAPTER VIII
					

					
						IN LOVEMAN'S LIBRARY
					

					THE drowsy elevator boy carried Clifford to the eleventh floor, and
						Clifford rang Loveman's bell. After a moment the door was opened by Loveman's Japanese
						butler, to whom Clifford, after stepping in, gave his card. The little Oriental, showing
						no slightest surprise at a call at such an hour, disappeared noiselessly through a door;
						and reappeared after a brief delay and held the door open as a sign that Clifford was to
						enter.
					Clifford stepped through the doorway and found himself in the large richly furnished
						library of Peter Loveman. Loveman, in a rope-girdled dressing-gown and with his tonsured
						head looking very much a jolly little monk, crossed the room with smiling hospitality.
						In a deep, tapestried chair, wearing a dinner jacket, sat the square figure of
						Bradley.
					"This is a surprise, Clifford!" cried Loveman, taking his hand. "And a pleasure, too,
						-- also a relief: dropping in on a pair of grouches, just as they were getting ready to
						murder each other to drive dull care away. You there, you other grouch," -- to Bradley,
						-- "say good-evening to our relief expedition."
					Bradley, without rising, nodded curtly. Clifford gave back a similar greeting.



					

					"Off with your overcoat, Clifford," the little man said briskly, "and make yourself
						comfortable."
					"I'll keep it on, Loveman. I can only stay a few minutes."
					"Well, anyhow, sit down," and Loveman pushed him into a chair and gestured toward a
						little table on which stood bottles and glasses and siphons. "All the ingredients here
						of the Fountain of Perpetual Youth: what'll you have -- high-ball, cocktail, liqueur --
						or shall I have Oni bring you a split of champagne?"
					"Thanks, I'm not drinking to-night."
					"Smoke, then?" offering cigars and cigarettes.
					"No, thank you."
					"Say, you're making a host look dam' inhospitable," humorously complained the little
						man. "How about a little whist? I'll run the dummy. Bradley there loves it: he's acting
						vice-chairman of the Daughters of Brooklyn Memorial and Bridge Associ --" 
					"Cut it out!" growled Bradley. "Ask him what he wants."
					"Pardon him, Clifford: Bradley's a gentleman of no social parts. But since he has
						mentioned the point -- is there anything special you came for?"
					"I came to talk," said Clifford.
					"Talk -- good! Talking's my trade!" Loveman drew up a chair, so that the three of them
						formed a square, the table of bottles filling the fourth side. "Let 'er go -- guest has
						the opening speech."
					"I suppose, Clifford, that this is where you'd like  to
						have me make a quick exit," said Bradley -- and he crossed his legs, folded his arms,
						bit upon his invariable big cigar, and gave Clifford a challenging look.
					"On the other hand, Bradley," Clifford returned, "I count it luck that I found you
						here, and I beg you as a favor to remain. Bradley, Loveman," he said sharply, "I've come
						here for a showdown -- to tell you that I'm on to your little game!"
					"Our game?" queried Loveman, with puzzled blandness.
					"Your game with Mary Regan and the Mortons."
					"Indeed!" Loveman said softly. "Now, I wonder if you'd mind giving a little information
						to an ignorant man?"
					Bradley's face had suddenly become hard; his little eyes were gleaming. But though
						Loveman's manner was blandly puzzled, Clifford knew the little lawyer was as alertly
						watchful of him as was Bradley -- and was as much to be watched.
					"I'll put all my cards on the table, Loveman," he said with deliberation. "I'll tell
						you exactly what I know -- which is also exactly what you know. There's nothing at all
						extraordinary about it; it's just the sort of thing that with a few variations you're
						doing over and over."
					"Oh, I say, am I really so monotonous!" protested Loveman.
					"You said you were going to put your cards on the table," cut in Bradley. "Come on,
						let's see your two-spots."


					

					"We'll go back a bit, Loveman," said Clifford. "Morton, senior, had entrusted you with
						the legal end of some of his New York affairs; and when Jack Morton came to New York,
						and began to get himself tangled up through having too much money, the father put it up
						to you to extricate his son. Good profit in handling such affairs, Loveman: nice fee for
						legal services rendered; a private split of the sums for which the matters were settled;
						and an unobtrusive arrangement whereby the son could be drawn into further profitable
						predicaments. A big-paying business, Loveman."
					"Go on," said the little lawyer pleasantly.
					"Three or four months ago the father descended upon New York in a fury. He declared he
						was through settling for Jack's troubles. He was going to send Jack somewhere far away
						from New York -- and Jack had to take a brace, or the father would drop him. Also there
						was a marriage with a rich girl that the father wanted to put across -- and there'd be
						nothing doing unless Jack straightened up. So Jack simply had to be braced up. Right
						there, Loveman, was where you saw yourself losing a big piece of your income. But you
						did some quick thinking, and you fell in with the father's idea that Jack should be sent
						into retirement to reform. In fact, you knew the very place, Pine Mountain Lodge. And on
						your suggestion Jack was sent there."
					"And if I did mention Pine Mountain Lodge, what of that?" Loveman mildly inquired.



					

					"You knew Mary Regan was there, and knew she was the only attractive woman staying at
						the hotel. And you knew that Jack Morton fell for about every pretty woman that he met.
						Thrown together in that isolation, you had n't a doubt of what he would do. It was only
						a chance -- but it was your only chance; and if it worked out the way
						you thought it might, there would be rich possibilities in the situation for you --
						without your seeming to have been mixed in the affair. Well, it worked out just as you
						thought it might -- and the possibilities lie ready to your hand."
					"In case I'm overlooking anything good," Loveman remarked in the same gentle voice,
						"would you mind telling me just what these possibilities are?"
					"Of course the marriage had to be secret; otherwise the possibilities would have been
						cut down by two thirds. First item, after the marriage had taken place, there was the
						possibility of getting hush money out of Mary Regan by threatening to expose her. You
						would never have appeared in this; Bradley would have attended to this detail -- perhaps
						through one of his men. Second, after you had exhausted the possibilities of blackmail,
						the next step would have been to inform the father that you suspected something was
						wrong with Jack. The father would order the matter looked into; you would engage Bradley
						for the job, and after a lengthy examination Bradley would report a secret marriage -- a
						big bill for detective services. Third, you would then  be
						retained to annul the marriage -- and a big fee there. Well, Loveman, Bradley," he ended
						grimly, "I believe that's just about the outline of this particular sweet little
						game!"
					Bradley was glaring at him, his square jaws clamped upon his cigar. Little Loveman,
						still with his affable look, was twirling the tasseled end of his girdle around a chubby
						forefinger.
					"You're very ingenious, very imaginative, Clifford. But granting for the moment that
						you are correct, what next?"
					Clifford leaned sharply forward. "You are not going through with it! I'm going to stop
						you!"
					Clifford gazed tensely at the two men. A slight quivering ran through Bradley's frame;
						his cigar fell, bitten through; his small, brilliant eyes were points of vicious flame.
						Loveman still twirled the end of his girdle, but now a bit more slowly. And thus the
						three sat for several moments.
					Then suddenly, without warning of word, seemingly without any preliminary motion,
						Bradley's powerful body launched itself from a sitting posture straight at Clifford.
						Clifford started to rise, and instinctively threw up his arms; but to no avail, for
						Bradley's big hands broke past his weak defense and gripped his throat. His chair went
						toppling over, the table with its cargo of liquors went crashing to the floor, and
						Clifford was carried resistlessly backward by the force of Bradley's lunge, until he
						came up against the great library table. Over this he toppled,  his spine against the table's edge, and Bradley drove his head down upon the
						wood with a terrific thump.
					"You'll stop nothing!" grated Bradley. "You've butted into my affairs for the last
						time!"
					Clifford tried to struggle free, but he was caught at too hopeless a disadvantage --
						his spine upon the edge of the table, Bradley's weight crushing upon him, and that pair
						of hands clutching his throat. He could move only his arms, and those to no purpose; he
						could not cry out; he could not breathe. As his chest heaved for lack of air, he read
						his doom in the deadly fury of Bradley's face. And he realized, even could he call for
						help, the futility of such an outcry in this apartment at the top of a lofty building,
						at this heavily slumbrous hour of four.
					He had been faintly conscious of hurried fumblings about the desk -- of the snap of a
						lock -- of the whine of a sliding drawer. Now, suddenly, as his wide eyes were growing
						bleared, he saw a dark something appear between his face and the face of Bradley a bare
						two feet away. And then he saw the something was a short, black pistol, and that the
						pistol was flush against Bradley's jaw, and that the pistol was gripped in a soft, round
						hand that was indubitably Loveman's. And he heard Loverman's voice, no longer velvety,
						snap out: --
					"Damn you, Bradley, -- that rough stuff don't go with me! Let loose of him, or, by God,
						I'll blow your dam' face off!"
					Clifford saw Bradley's flaming little eyes shift  toward
						the speaker. Then he saw the monk-like figure shift the pistol from jaw to Bradley's
						shoulder.
					"No, I'll not kill you; I'll splinter your dam' bones," the sharp voice cried with
						fierce decision.
					"Get off that man before I count three, or your left arm'll be the first bone to go.
						One -- two --"
					The hands left Clifford's throat, and the heavy figure lifted itself from his body;
						and, thus freed, Clifford slumped to the floor where he sat limply, pantingly, against
						the table. Loveman had stepped around the table, and Clifford now saw that he was
						looking up at Bradley, and he saw that the cherubic, large-eyed face of the lawyer was
						grim with an awful wrath.
					"You dam' big boob!" cried the little man. "You'd let yourself -- and me! -- in for a
						criminal charge! And people have always said you have a brain!"
					"I've taken all I can from him!" Bradley said thickly.
					"Either you control your temper and cut out the rough stuff," snapped Loveman, "or you
						and I are through!"
					The pair gazed fixedly at each other. Neither spoke. While they stood silent, Clifford
						became aware of the Japanese butler, his back toward the three of them and seemingly
						unaware of their doings, on his knees picking up bottles and broken glass and toweling
						up the spilled liquor from the rug.
					Without replying, Bradley put his hands in his  trousers'
						pockets, resumed his chair, and crossed his legs. With an easy motion Loveman dropped
						the pistol into a pocket of his dressing-gown, and stepped to Clifford's side. He was
						again the agreeable man-about-town that Broadway liked so well.
					"Too bad -- but natural -- the way men will lose their tempers," he said, as he helped
						Clifford to his feet and into a chair. "How're you feeling?"
					"I'll be all right in a breath or two."
					"Better let me give you a brandy?"
					"No, thanks."
					"Aw, it's nothing!" cut in Bradley. "Let him finish saying how he was going to stop
						us!"
					"Do you feel like that -- yet?" Loveman queried solicitously.
					Clifford was still dazed, but he was no less set in his purpose. "Bradley's right -- a
						little scuffle like that is nothing."
					"Good; a great thing to be in training!" Loveman sank into his chair, smiling urbanely.
						"We've forgotten what's happened"; and he brushed the matter into oblivion with a
						pleasant wave of the hand that two minutes before had gripped the pistol. "As I was
						about to remark -- granting that you are right, how are you going to stop it?"
					"Of course I could stop it," said Clifford, "by telling Jack and Mr. Morton about Mary
						Regan and her father and her uncle and her brother. At any rate, that would smash your
						game."
					"As you say, provided, of course, there is a contemplated 
						marriage, that would stop it," Loveman agreed pleasantly. "Why don't you do that?"
					"Considering the character of the Mortons and the fact that she's more worth while than
						they are, telling on her seems to me a pretty raw deal to give Mary Regan: to show her
						up to them, and give the father, who's as sympathetic as a shark, a chance to take the
						lead, break it off, make a scandal out of it, and to humiliate her in public."
					"That's dam' delicate of you, Clifford," said Loveman, "and I approve of your
						sentiments as a gentleman. But if you don't do that, how else are you going to stop
						it?"
					Clifford spoke calmly. "I'm going to stop it through you."
					"Through me! Well, well! Do you mind telling me, Clifford, just how I am going to do
						it?"
					"You have some influence over Mary Regan; I don't pretend to know what it is. You go to
						her to-morrow and you tell her, saying whatever is necessary to bring her around, that
						she can't go through with the marriage. Then she breaks it off -- and not the Mortons,
						and they'll not be any the wiser about her."
					"Well, well, you certainly do seem to think I have a very strong influence with the
						ladies," Loveman said blandly. "Very flattering, I assure you. But supposing -- all
						we've been talking about is mere supposition, you know -- supposing I have a mild
						disinclination to do what you propose?"


					

					"Supposing that," Clifford returned grimly, "then I go to Mr. Morton, tell him about
						Mary Regan, and tell him the whole thing was your plan. And he'll believe what I say
						about you, Loveman; I've merely got to remind him that you suggested Pine Mountain
						Lodge, prove to him that you knew Mary Regan was there, prove to him that you've been
						seeing Mary Regan in New York, and he'll swallow everything else. Result, the present
						scheme of you and Bradley goes smash, and, further, you lose all future business with
						your best-paying client."
					"Supposing, on the other hand," Loveman remarked in his same bland voice, "that I have
						no disinclination to do what you suggest?"
					"In that case, you only lose out on your present plan. I'm not interested in Morton.
						You keep his business. You see, Loveman, I've got you: and what I'm offering is the best
						proposition for you."
					Loveman gently stroked his crown. "Clifford, do you believe in fairies?"
					"Where does that come in?"
					"You ought to believe in fairies, Clifford. You really ought. With that imagination of
						yours, you'd coin money, writing fairy-stories for children -- simply coin money." He
						turned to Bradley. "What do you say to Clifford's proposition?"
					"Tell him to go to hell!" said Bradley, his old hatred flaring out.
					"You'll excuse Fido's behavior, Clifford," Loveman  said
						apologetically. "He has n't had a biscuit all day."
					"The real question is," returned Clifford, "what does Peter Loveman say to the
						proposition?"
					"What do I say? Well, now, well," Loveman said pleasantly, "you know I never did
						believe in fairies and so I can't be expected to gulp down this remarkable little story
						you've told me. But since you are interested in Miss Regan, and are concerned that
						nothing goes wrong with her -- why, for your sake, of course I'll do it -- I'll do
						anything you say."
					Clifford stared penetratingly at the round face, which never before looked more like
						the face of an amiable monk. Behind that amiable face was a swift thought that, after
						all, he might slip Nina Cordova into this situation and that he'd square matters with
						Nina the first thing in the morning.
					"You'll do it to-morrow?" demanded Clifford.
					"To-morrow -- sometime before noon." And as Clifford continued his keen glance: "You
						doubt me? All right." He walked to a section of his bookshelves and came back with a
						large, dingy volume. "Here's a Bible -- a Gutenberg, 1455. There can't be a holier Bible
						than this; just think, man, what it cost. Go ahead -- swear me."
					"I guess you'll do it," said Clifford. He rose. "I believe that's all, gentlemen.
						Good-night."
					As he started away Bradley glowered at him; but Loveman, slipping an arm through his,
						escorted him to the door. There Loveman held him for a moment.



					
					"That was one grand fairy-tale, Clifford, you dreamed about me," he said with a smile
						through which (perhaps purposely) there glinted ever so little of mockery. "But
						supposing I do have any little plan under way, I wonder how close you've come to
						guessing it? Now, I wonder?"
					Down in the quiet street, Clifford found himself wondering too. 

				

				
				

					CHAPTER IX
					

					
						THE TEST OF LIFE
					

					Now that he had won, now that the marriage and Loveman's plans were
						potentially blocked, there should have been a let-down from Clifford's long strain. But
						there was not. The settling of this affair seemed only to give mind-room to other
						concerns. He tossed about restlessly during the few hours that remained of the night;
						and he realized that his restlessness was not due wholly to the suspense of waiting for
						the finality that would come with Loveman's completed promise.
					In the slow hours before the coming of the slate-colored dawn a vague, disturbing doubt
						crept in upon him. He had interfered with events, he had tried to shape life upon his
						ideas: was his course right? -- that seemed to be something of the impalpable substance
						of his doubt. But what this new doubt was, strive as he would he could not evoke it from
						its vagueness into definite shape.
					He had breakfast; and then, obeying an impulse which seemed to emerge from this new,
						obscure maze of his mind, he suddenly decided to see Mary Regan again -- for what
						purpose he had no idea. Arrived at the Grantham he had his name 'phoned up to "Mrs.
						Gardner," and was informed that Mrs. Gardner would see him.


					

					Mary herself admitted him, and, not even replying to his "good-morning," she led him
						into the sitting-room. There she faced him, proud and coldly defiant.
					"I suppose you have come to inform me you have told the Mortons all about me?"
					"No," he replied.
					"Then, to threaten me again that you will tell?"
					"No."
					"Then, what have you come for?"
					He knew now -- at least partly. During the moment he had been in the room and had gazed
						upon her, there had emerged from the maze of his thoughts and feelings, a sharply
						defined repugnance to what within the next hour or two was to happen between her and
						Loveman: a repugnance, felt in her behalf, that she should be made to yield to whatever
						influences that cunning little lawyer would be able to exert.
					"I have come to ask you," he said, trying to speak composedly, but with all his being
						vibrant beneath that composure, "to break off this affair with Jack Morton of your own
						free will. You know you don't care for him. You know what you are planning to do is n't
						square. Why don't you be true to the best self that is in you and end it all yourself?
						-- and end it now? There's the telephone," he urged -- remembering that Loveman might
						any moment appear -- "call Jack Morton up and tell him you've decided not to do it!"



					

					As he spoke, her face had grown sharp with decision. "Mr. Clifford," she exclaimed in a
						low, cutting voice, "I'm tired of your presumption, your interference! I'm tired of your
						trying to make me be what you think I ought to be! As if it mattered to me what you
						thought!"
					She took a step nearer, her straight, young figure stiffened, and her dark eyes flashed
						at him. "Understand this, Mr. Clifford, -- I've made up my mind, and made it up
						definitely, finally. I am going to do exactly what I want to do, and it is not in your
						power to stop me or divert me. You may tell either of the Mortons if you like -- my real
						course will not be changed -- that will merely mean that I'll do what I want to do in
						some other way!"
					Clifford did not attempt to answer. Her defiant words, her young figure so rigid with
						its determined spirit of worldliness, had set some strange force working in him; a vague
						power seemed to be at conflict with the purpose he had held to for so long; a strange
						revulsion seized him, a revolution was under way which was compelling in its sweeping
						drive, but whose intent and direction for a moment he could not perceive.
					He stood still, and stared at her. And then out of the inner turmoil came a clear,
						bright order; and then he realized that the restlessness, the formless doubts of the
						night before, had been the first faint stirrings of this which was grown and clarified
						into a new purpose and a new vision -- a purpose and vision that  astonished him. For they had come at the very time when his old purpose was
						the same as achieved.
					She could but notice the remarkable change in his appearance. "Well, what is it now?"
						she demanded.
					He drew a deep, quivering breath. A recklessness, a defiance -- but behind which his
						new purpose remained cool -- now possessed him. He was aware that he had to act quickly,
						for any instant Peter Loveman might be here.
					"What is it now?" he repeated, with a provoking smile. If he did not have power to stir
						her to love, he knew that he had the power to stir her to anger. "I was just recalling
						what you said a moment ago: to the effect that you were going to do what you pleased and
						do it when you pleased. Pardon me for smiling -- but when a woman boasts, it sometimes
						is amusing and a bit absurd."
					"What do you mean?" she said sharply.
					"Oh, I'm smiling at myself, too, for I've just realized what a fool I've made of myself
						in trying to stop you -- an entirely unnecessary effort. What I mean, Miss Regan, is
						that I do not believe you could do it."
					"Why not?"
					"Oh, I suppose you'd go through with your part of it. But if put to the test of
						marrying at once, Jack Morton would never go through with his part. He may be a bit
						infatuated; but he's too wise to marry a woman without money -- without knowing more
						about who she is -- and without his father's approval.  No
						wonder Jack has been putting this off!"
					She flushed hotly. "I have been the one to put it off" she cried.
					"Indeed," he exclaimed with unbelief none too polite. "From the way he was dancing last
						night with Miss Cordova -- you know, that pretty musical- comedy star -- I have an idea
						she's had a lot to do with the delay. And I imagine she'll have a lot more to do with
						further delay. Why, you poor thing," -- he smiled irritatingly, -- "to think you could
						hold a man like Jack Morton -- you having to remain inactive, under cover -- he free to
						roam about with all sorts of charming women -- particularly with Miss Cordova!"
					She did not speak for a moment. She was choked with that anger on which he had so
						carefully counted: no person, he knew, would be so likely to act upon impulse as a proud
						and angered woman, before the man who has insulted her.
					"So you think I can't do it!" she exclaimed. "So he's the one who is holding back!
						Well, I'll just show you! Anyhow, this thing might as well come to a head right now. And
						I'll give you your chance to tell all you know about me."
					She turned and took up the telephone from the writing-desk and asked for the Biltmore.
						Fortune favored her purpose, for in a minute she had Jack Morton on the wire.
					"Can you come right over, Jack, -- with your  car? ...
						No, don't bring your chauffeur; drive yourself. ... Why? I'll tell you that when you
						come -- only bring plenty of wraps.... All right, I '11 be ready; come right up."
					"He'll be over in fifteen minutes," she said to Clifford. "You may wait if you like.
						But you'll excuse me."
					She passed into her bedroom. Clifford sank rather limply into a chair. He had come to
						what just then seemed the supreme crisis of his life, and he was still dazed at the way
						he had willed that crisis to eventuate. He sat thinking -- thinking; the minutes she was
						out were long minutes to him.
					Presently she reentered. She had changed to a black velvet suit trimmed with black fur;
						a small fur hat sat snugly down upon her thick, dark hair; and she carried a fur
						motor-coat. She was an unforgettable picture for him: the high color of her dark face
						against the background of soft and sheeny blacks.
					She did not address Clifford; but there was little time for their silence to become
						awkward, for almost at once the bell of the suite rang. Mary went to the door, and
						admitted Jack Morton. The pleasant-faced young fellow looked most comfortably handsome
						in his great motoring-coat of raccoon.
					"I say, Mary, this is certainly fine!" he cried, after he had kissed her. "And, hello
						-- there's Bob Clifford. How's the old boy?" He shook Clifford's hand warmly. "But say,
						Mary, what's doing?"



					

					Mary looked at Morton when she replied, but her voice was directed at Clifford: "I've
						decided, Jack, to give in to you. I'm ready to be married at once -- to-day."
					"Hurrah!" cried young Morton, seizing both her hands. "But we'll have to keep it quiet
						-- same as we planned. You're ready now?"
					She did not answer. Clifford noted that her body tautened and her breath was held -- as
						one who waits for a blow; and he understood that she was waiting for, and expecting him
						to speak the truth about her.
					She slowly turned and looked at Clifford. Surprise that he had said nothing was in her
						face. Then she turned back to Morton.
					"I'm all ready," she said distinctly, so that Clifford might not miss a word. "We'll do
						as you suggested: motor away back into the country to some small place -- get married --
						and a little money spent judiciously there will keep our marriage quiet as long as we
						like." She turned again to Clifford. "I'm sure we have the best wishes of Mr. Clifford." 
					He knew that her words, and her straight look, were not now so much challenge or
						defiance as the bold offering him a second time the chance to speak, and to speak at the
						most effective moment imaginable. She might be perverse -- but of a certainty she had
						nerve!
					"You surely have my wishes that it will all turn  out for
						the very best," said Clifford; and again he saw surprise in her gaze.
					He rode down the elevator with them and walked out to the curb where stood Morton's
						machine, a black, closed car with a long hood that bespoke the engine-power of a racer.
						Morton was swinging open the door when Clifford, trying to keep down the choke that
						sought to rise in his throat, remarked with attempted good-fellowship: -- 
					"If you don't mind, Morton, I wish you'd wire me as soon as it's over. Here at the
						Grantham."
					"Sure, old man. Step in, Mary."
					Mary started to obey, then checked herself. "May I speak to you a moment, Mr.
						Clifford?"
					They moved a few paces away. She looked at him penetratingly.
					"Why have you done this?" she abruptly whispered. 
					"Done what?" he parried.
					"Don't you think that I see now that you have forced my hand? That I am down here now,
						about to do this, because you wanted me to do it? Why are you doing it -- when you could
						stop everything, this moment, with just a few words?"
					He gave her back a straight look and spoke deliberately. "I have tried for a long time
						to do with you what I saw as best -- to pull the strings -- and I have failed, over and
						over. When you declared a little while ago that I or nothing else could change your
						purpose, I suddenly had a new vision. I realized  that if
						you were poor material I could not save you, and that you would not be worth saving. And
						I realized that if you were good material, only some way that I had not tried could
						affect you; and it came to me," he went on grimly, "that bitter experience might do for
						you what I had not done. And it also came to me that if anything could arouse you to the
						human realities, no experiences might be so effective as what might lie before you in
						this very marriage you had planned."
					"And that is why you said nothing?" she breathed.
					He nodded. "I have taken my hands off, to give life its chance to pull the
						strings."
					She gazed at him a moment longer. Then she returned to the car. But as she stepped in,
						she paused and glanced back once more. Her face was very pale and dazed -- it held the
						look of one who wondered, but could not understand.
					Restlessly, but with a heavy heart within him, Clifford wandered about the great lobby
						of the Grantham. A slow hour passed -- then another. Then he saw Peter Loveman, on his
						plump face an expression which for Loveman was very serious, come up the broad stairway
						and go straight for the desk at which visitors sent up their names to guests of the
						house. Loveman spoke to the blonde within the grilled enclosure -- waited -- then walked
						away with a sober, puzzled look. He sighted Clifford in a deep lounging-chair, and his
						face on the instant I) 
							 HER FACE WAS VERY PALE AND DAZED -- IT HELD THE LOOK OF ONE WHO
								WONDERED, BUT COULD NOT UNDERSTAND 

						
						
						 grown genial, he crossed and dropped into a chair beside
						him.
					"Need n't explain, Clifford," he said pleasantly, offering a cigarette from a lacquered
						case which Clifford refused. "Sure, I understand what you showed up here for: to see if
						I went through with what I promised. Well, I just asked for her, and was told she'd gone
						out. I'm going to wait for her -- and I suppose you'll wait too."
					Clifford nodded.
					Loveman tried to draw Clifford into conversation, but his light remarks failing to
						evoke a response, he looked through first the "Wall Street Journal," and then the
						"Morning Telegraph," that organ of the theater and the other diversions close to
						Broadway's life. Thus the two sat for over an hour, neither speaking; then a page came
						by, calling in the impersonal voice of hotel pages, "Telegram Mr. Clifford -- Telegram
						Mr. Clifford."
					Clifford took the yellow missive with a hand that he tried to keep from shaking. He was
						quite certain what was in it -- the end of things, just as he had suddenly planned them
						in his new vision of some three or four hours earlier. Yet, none the less, he had a
						moment of supreme and sickening suspense as he opened the envelope.
					Yes, it was just what he had expected. He gazed fixedly at the typewritten lines before
						him -- lines which were like heavy doors swinging to and locked between him and that of
						which he had dreamed.



					

					Then he became conscious that the big round eyes of little Peter Loveman were gazing at
						him curiously. Silently he handed the telegram to the lawyer.
					Loveman glanced the telegram through. "The devil!" he cried. Then he read it again,
						this time aloud: -- 
							Married quiet place ten miles from here. Everybody will keep it secret. Happy you
								bet. J.
						
					
					Loveman stared at Clifford. "And it's addressed to you!" he exclaimed. "Say, this means
						you've crossed yourself! What the devil are you up to?"
					Clifford did not answer.
					There was a moment of silence, then Loveman whispered to himself: "And I just promised
						Nina Cordova!"
					Again Clifford did not answer; he did not hear Loveman. Such of his senses as were not
						numbed by the finality of which that telegram was the token were directed into that
						unfinal future which human vision could not penetrate. How was it all going to work out
						for Mary Regan? Was experience going to do for her what he had failed to do, or was
						experience going to stimulate to complete and final dominance her worldliness? And had
						he played into Peter Loveman's hands? And what would Loveman do?
					But these were questions only Life could answer. He had stepped aside to give Life full
						play, to let human impulses move unhindered by him toward  their destiny; and he must wait until Life was ready to speak.
					He was subconsciously aware that Loveman's round eyes were fixed upon him sharply, and
						he was subconsciously aware that the keen brain behind that round face was working
						swiftly, ranging in every direction. But without looking at Loveman again, or speaking
						to him, he rose heavily and went down the broad marble stairway, muted with rugs, out
						into the winter twilight. These questions that engaged his mind were none of his affair.
						Mary Regan, as far as she touched his personal life, was now become an episode that was
						closed. He had other affairs to fill his life; he must turn himself to them.
					And yet, as he walked away ... he wondered ...

				
				


				

					CHAPTER X
					

					
						THE GOLDEN DOORS
					

					THE hour was eleven-thirty of that same night. Clifford sat in the
						Gold Room at the Grantham, and kept a careful eye upon the proceedings across the great
						room at the little corner table known among the waiters as "Mr. Loveman's table."
					Clifford watched many persons speak briefly to Loveman. He tried to guess what the
						shrewd little lawyer might now be up to. Among those who came to Loveman's table he
						particularly noted a dark, perfectly tailored young man, of perhaps thirty, with the
						lithe slenderness of the expert dancing male. Clifford knew him by name and reputation,
						and already he had set him down as one he must watch, together with Loveman and Bradley. 
					But for all his efforts to concentrate upon his present business, Clifford's mind kept
						shifting back to Mary Regan. It was a most difficult situation which she had taken upon
						herself: the daughter of one famous criminal, the niece of another, the sister of
						another, and herself a former participant in criminal acts -- secretly married to a rich
						young man who knew nothing of her past, and who was dependent upon the approval of an
						autocratic father.  To succeed in the soaring worldly
						plans she had admitted to him with such cold frankness would require marvelous skill,
						marvelous daring, marvelous self-control. Well -- skill, daring, control, she had
						them!
					But there was Loveman to be considered. Clifford asked himself if he had deduced aright
						Loveman's plans concerning her? Loveman's words, spoken in the early hours of that
						morning, and spoken with mockery glinting through his habitual amiability of manner,
						came back to him: "Just supposing I do have any little plan under way, Clifford, I
						wonder how close you've come to guessing it? Now, I wonder?"
					Looking over at the cherubic face of the shrewd little lawyer, Clifford felt for the
						moment all the doubt that these words had been intended to arouse. Had he, perhaps,
						guessed only a part of Loveman's plan? -- or was he altogether wrong?
					And Clifford's restless mind flashed to his last act in the destiny of Mary Regan: the
						extreme measure he had resorted to in taunting her into that impulsive marriage with
						Jack Morton; and then his telling her with almost brutal directness, during the brief
						moment just before she and Jack had motored off, that he had come to realize that only
						going her own worldly way, only the experience of life, could avail to awaken the real
						woman that was in her.
					He wondered. But only time, as it unrolled its  film of
						unborn events, could answer these questions. He could now do no more than hope the best
						results for Mary Regan -- wherever she might be.
					With an effort Clifford brought himself back to his present business, and again gave
						sharp attention to that darkly handsome figure of the dancing man. And then -- his heart
						skipped a beat or two. Across the line of his vision, coming from the main entrance of
						the Gold Room, and convoyed by a suave captain of waiters, walked Mary Regan and Jack
						Morton. They were ushered to a side table, and at once fell into intimate talk.
					Clifford, after his first surprise, watched them closely; and he quickly perceived
						that, though she smiled and chatted, not more than the surface of Mary's attention was
						given to her husband of a dozen hours. He tried to look beneath, to what was going on in
						the hidden deeps of her mind....
					That mind was teeming. For her this was a moment of triumph, of exultation. As she had
						told Clifford, with her cool directness, she had analyzed herself, and had decided that
						she was a worldling, and, moreover, she knew herself a competent worldling. The things
						in life that to her were worth while were luxury, admiration, the pleasures that money
						could buy. She had dreamed this dream -- and here was her dream come true!
					Her quickened eyes, with a new sense, swiftly took in this great room, decorated in
						gold and black and with hangings of a kingly blue brocade, and  with smartly dressed people at the tables or swinging in alluring rhythm in
						the latest dances. After the studied maneuvers, and sometimes necessary seclusion of
						life with her uncle, all this gayety, and richness, and freedom, warmed the heart of her
						desire. All this was now hers! -- hers whenever she wished it!
					It was as if golden doors had swung open. From her subconscious mind these two magic
						words had emerged to the very forefront of her thought, had become a mental figure of
						speech which she concretely visualized as a glorious structure which almost existed --
						Golden Doors! ...
					Clifford, watching that rapt face, hardly noted that Jack had sighted him and was
						bearing down upon him until Jack seized him by the shoulder and dragged him over to
						where Mary sat.
					"Look who's here, Mary, -- almost my bridesmaid!" Jack cried gayly. "Sit down,
						Clifford," pressing Clifford into a chair and reseating himself. "Now, come across with
						congratulations!"
					Clifford tried to restrain all personal feeling from his tone, and to speak lightly. "I
						can't do better than to say what's always said -- that I hope marriage is going to make
						a real man out of you."
					"Oh, you do! And I suppose" -- with joyous acerbity -- "that that's what you're wishing
						for Mary -- that it'll make a real woman out of her!"
					Clifford still tried to speak easily. "Honestly, now, could one make a better wish for
						a woman  than that she should never be anybody else but
						her best self?"
					Mary met his gaze steadily. On his side he tried to look, and feel, the part of one who
						is no more than a casual friend -- but, despite his effort at this detached role, he
						could not help guessing at just what was going on behind that calm face.
					"You've got a thought on your chest," remarked Jack. "Better cough it up."
					"I am merely feeling a bit surprised at seeing you back again."
					"Surprised? Why?"
					"I imagined you'd stay away for a while."
					"I've had enough of the St. Helena life -- and so has Mary. New York's the only
						place!"
					"Where are you going to live?"
					"Right here at the Grantham. That is, till we like something better."
					"Then you are registered here?" pursued Clifford.
					"Not I. Mary is, since she's been living here. I was just going to have my things sent
						over from the Biltmore, and then register with the special hotel pen, which has two ink
						drops that flow as one."
					Clifford was silent for a moment. He had noted that Peter Loveman was watching them
						from his corner, and that the lithe, dark gentleman he had been closely observing during
						the evening -- his name was Hilton -- was now seated at the table adjoining them and was
						covertly watching Mary.
					"Don't register here together," he said abruptly.



					

					"Why not?" exclaimed Jack.
					"Would you mind explaining?" Mary asked quietly.
					Clifford remembered himself. Only that very morning he had told Mary that he would no
						longer try to help shape the course of her life -- that he would keep his hands off --
						that hereafter he would let Life pull the strings of her destiny. And here he was
						interfering again.
					"I guess I was n't thinking," he said, trying to be casual. "Anyhow, it's really none
						of my business." 
					Mary gazed at him sharply. She surmised that some idea had been behind his remark; but
						she did not speak. Jack, whose gaze had wandered, gave a start and cried out: -- 
					"Hello, there's dad! And he's spotted us -- look, he's coming this way!"
					Clifford glanced at Jack's father, an erect man of fifty, with unchallengeable
						dominance in his manner which the lordship of large affairs had developed from his
						native self-confidence. Then quickly Clifford glanced back, and managed to comprehend
						with his gaze both Mary and the dark man at the next table. Mary, grown tense as crisis
						approached in the form of the elder Morton, said quickly to Jack in a low voice: -- 
					"Introduce me by another name: Gilmore -- anything!"
					At the same moment Clifford saw her hands beneath  the
						table swiftly remove engagement and wedding rings and thrust them into a white glove
						which lay in her lap. Also he noted that the dark gentleman had caught this action; and
						he noted that the black eyes glinted with a sudden light.
					The next moment he heard Mary being introduced as Miss Gilmore. Clifford watched the
						meeting keenly.
					"I'm very glad to meet Miss Gilmore," the elder Morton said, bowing over her hand and
						taking her in with a swift, appraising eye. He had a reputation of a sort as a
						connoisseur of femininity, and what he saw was evidently pleasing to him.
					"And I am glad to meet you," Mary returned.
					Clifford knew her self-control, but he was freshly amazed at the composed agreeability
						with which she met her unsuspecting father-in-law.
					"Of course, you know Mr. Clifford," Jack went on nervously. "Sit down, dad. We were
						just finishing a little supper. Can't I order something for you?"
					"Nothing for me, son. But I'll sit with Miss Gilmore and you for a minute."
					He took a chair, and fixed his gray eyes, trained to penetrate and read what others
						would hide from him, upon Mary. Clifford tautened with suspense as these two sat face to
						face. And out of the tail of his eye he saw that the dark man was covertly watching and
						listening.
					"I don't get to New York very often, Miss Gilmore,"  Mr.
						Morton continued, "but this time I'm making it an old man's business and pleasure to try
						to recapture some of my own youth by getting acquainted with Jack's friends. I suppose
						he's known you a long time?"
					"On the other hand, we first met quite recently."
					"If I knew how to be gallant in your Eastern fashion, I might remark that Jack has lost
						a lot, then. I wonder if you're one of our leading actresses? Jack seems to know so many
						stage people."
					"I'm not even the greatest motion-picture star yet discovered; and you know there are
						thousands of her. I'm just ordinary woman."
					"Not ordinary!" protested Mr. Morton. "I suppose -- But, of course, this curiosity of a
						provincial must be offensive to you?"
					"I did not know that a Chicagoan ever admitted himself a provincial."
					"Call it the prying curiosity of an old father. That's just as bad."
					"A father should be curious," Mary said evenly.
					"I was about to say that I suppose you are a native New Yorker?"
					"Not in the sense that you probably mean -- that I am of an old family here, and have a
						lot of relations." 
					"But you are a New Yorker?"
					"I was born here. But a large part of my life I spent in France -- where," she added,
						"both my parents died."



					

					"An orphan -- and no relations! Perhaps you are one of those independent New York
						bachelor girls we read about?"
					"I live with an aunt. We have an apartment -- just a little box of a thing."
					"Indeed. Would it be presuming too much on Jack's friendship if I might call upon you
						and your aunt?"
					"Aunt Isabel and I will be pleased to have you," she returned evenly.
					"Thank you. If you will find out just when it will be most convenient for her, and let
						me know through Jack, I'l be there."
					Clifford had to admire the composure with which she carried herself through this polite
						but dangerous inquisition -- every instant of which, he saw, was an almost unbearable
						strain upon the suspense-ridden Jack. But by her invention of an aunt, which had opened
						the way for a proposal to call, he felt that she might have made a fatal slip. But there
						was no telling: it looked bad, yes, -- but she had a faculty, a gift, for smoothly
						extricating herself from the worst of situations.
					Before this cross-examination could proceed further, little Peter Loveman appeared at
						the table. Clifford instantly surmised the shrewd little lawyer's motive: he had
						witnessed the scene, and, knowing its dangers to himself, sought to intervene before
						there could be exposure and explosion.
					"Pardon me for breaking in on your party, Mr.  Morton,"
						he said, with his glib amiability. "But some facts just came to my knowledge which, as
						your lawyer, I feel you ought to know at once."
					"All right; I was just leaving, anyhow. Jack, I've been wanting to see you all day --
						it's really very important. I wonder if Miss Gilmore would forgive you, and us, if we
						left her with Mr. Clifford?" 
					It had been a scene that had almost crumpled Jack. Mary saved the situation for him by
						speaking promptly but with composure.
					"It will be quite all right, Mr. Morton."
					"To pay the check with," Jack mumbled huskily, pushing a bank-note beside Clifford's
						plate.
					The next moment Clifford and Mary were alone. She gazed across at him very steadily,
						not speaking. Her breath came with a slight, fluttering irregularity, and her face had
						taken on a slight pallor; he could guess how much the stress of the last few minutes had
						taxed her. She glanced about the tables for a brief space, then her eyes came back to
						him.
					"I'd like to go up to my apartment," she said quietly.
					Clifford paid the bill and escorted her out of the great, glittering room. Near the row
						of elevators she halted and faced him.
					"What was in your mind a while ago when you started to tell Jack and me not to register
						here together?"
					He tried to speak coldly. "Please overlook that.  I
						forgot for the moment that I had promised you I would not again interfere in your
						affairs."
					"Please tell me what was in your mind," she quietly insisted.
					"First of all, I was surprised that you and Jack should return to New York -- so
						soon."
					"Why?"
					"Something similar to what has just happened was bound to happen if you appeared in New
						York openly together -- only it might have been a great deal worse. And that worse thing
						would inevitably have happened if you two had registered. I thought you would have
						considered this danger."
					" I had thought of it, yes, -- that is, before to-day. But to-day so much was happening
						to me -- it was all so sudden -- that all day I was thinking of other things."
					He looked at her sharply, a sudden leaping at his heart. Was he in any way concerned in
						those other things? But he put the question from him.
					Abruptly he obeyed an impulse that had been growing in him. "May I break my promise to
						the extent of telling you of a few matters?"
					"Please do."
					"You have chosen your own way," he said, in even tones, looking very straight into her
						dark eyes, " but -- well, after all, I want you to make the best of it for yourself.
						These few facts -- perhaps you know them already -- may help you. First, and I say this
						without any personal prejudice to Jack,  Jack has the
						reputation of caring for many women often rather than for one woman long. Second,
						largely for business reasons, Mr. Morton desires to have Jack marry a girl from Chicago.
						Third, this girl's parents will not consider such a marriage until Jack has proved that
						he has settled down; therefore, it naturally is Mr. Morton's dominating desire at
						present that Jack should become a steady business man. He'd like to have Jack enter the
						New York offices of his firm. That is all. If you think these matters over, perhaps you
						will see a way in which they may serve you."
					"Perhaps I shall. Thank you." She moved to the elevators, and stood silent until a car
						opened. "Good-night," she said, and stepped inside.
					"Good-night," he returned.
					He stood an instant after her car had shot upward. She had chosen her own course. And
						this was only the beginning of the consequences. What might the ending be?
				

				


				

					CHAPTER XI
					

					
						MARY PLANS ANEW
					



					THE following morning Clifford called at the Grantham and asked if
						Mrs. Morton was in.
					The clerk examined the hotel's file of guests. "There is no Mrs. Morton staying
						here."
					So, after all, they had not registered. He recalled that Mary had formerly been known
						here as Mrs. Gardner.
					"May I see Mrs. Gardner, then?" he asked.
					"Mrs. Gardner moved from the Grantham early this morning," replied the clerk. "I'd just
						come on duty when she left."
					"Was there a -- was her brother with her?"
					"She was alone."
					"If you will kindly give me her new address --"
					"She left no address."
					Clifford walked out of the Grantham in deep thought. Mary had realized her situation,
						she had acted promptly. But what was her plan? -- for undoubtedly she had evolved a plan
						during the night. And where had she gone?
					And how was it all going to work out? To be sure, the penetration of the designs of
						Loveman and Bradley was his real business; but he could not help himself, he was vastly
						more interested in  what Mary might be doing, and in what
						was to be the end of it all for her. He called on Slant-Face; but her brother still had
						not seen or heard from her directly since her return to New York. He kept Loveman under
						surveillance, and also Bradley; the maneuvers of either might lead him to her. And also
						he kept watch upon Hilton, whose eyes had suddenly lighted when he had seen Mary quickly
						thrust her rings into her gloves. But he picked up nothing.
					Clifford might have been greatly helped in his search for Mary by Commissioner Thorne:
						a general alarm might quickly have located her. But he did not want Mary brought before
						the general attention of the police. However questionable the ethics of the course her
						ambition had planned, there was in it nothing that was legally criminal.
					For a week he kept close surveillance upon Loveman, Bradley, and the dark young man;
						and learned not a thing about Mary and not a thing about the plans of the others. Then
						one day he ran across the elder Morton, who had just returned to the city after a trip
						to Chicago.
					"You won't believe it when I tell you," said the older man, "but Jack's gone to
						work."
					"Where?"
					"In my New York offices. Been working there a week -- and they tell me he's been as
						regular as a clock. Remarkable change!" His voice lowered. "But here's a point that
						seems odd: though he's  kept his rooms at the Biltmore,
						the people there have hardly seen him."
					The finding of Mary now seemed simple enough. But Clifford realized that mere knowledge
						of her whereabouts would not satisfy him. Clifford considered rapidly how he might
						achieve a private meeting with her. Half an hour later he was sitting with Uncle George
						in Monsieur Le Bain's Grand Alcazar, and was telling this wise old man of Broadway all
						that had happened.
					"Certainly some little situation for Mary Regan!" Uncle George looked at Clifford with
						his shrewd old lashless eyes. "But, son, I hope your motor's not missing fire over her
						-- and her a married woman?"
					"I'm concerned because I'm certain Loveman is planning to use her. I can protect her
						better, and I stand a better chance to land Loveman, if I know where she is."
					"H'm. And is that the three-mile limit of your interest?"
					"I'm human enough to want to know what she's done and how she's planned to meet the
						future. Knowing that will help me against Loveman."
					"Well, son, be sure you're not passing phony money off on yourself -- which is what the
						average citizen does when he thinks he has one of these here righteous thoughts. I
						suppose you've got me fitted into some nice little idea?"
					"You're going to help me meet her."



					

					"Oh, that's all, is it!" the old man said dryly. "All I've got to do is to step out on
						Broadway, touch her on the sleeve, and say, 'Good-afternoon, Mary; Bob Clifford wants to
						one-step with you to a bit of nice chin-music' -- and in she'll come wearing a smile on
						all four sides, you being so popular with her!"
					"All you've got to do, Uncle George, is something else. Jack likes you; Mary considers
						you one of her best friends. You go into that telephone booth, call up Jack at his
						father's office, and learn where she is -- and after you've learned that we'll dope out
						the rest."
					"I did n't think that in my old age I'd sink to be a stool for a copper," sighed Uncle
						George, with mock mournfulness.
					He heaved his big body up and crossed to a booth. Five minutes later he swayed back to
						Clifford's side.
					"I got a line on her. But it's up to me to do some of this here super-delicate
						detective work. Sit where you are -- though it's an awful risk to leave you alone and
						unprotected right over a wine cellar. I may be back in an hour. So-long."
					He was back in half an hour. "She's having tea over at the Ritz. Come on. I got a taxi
						waiting outside."
					He led the way out and across the sidewalk, bulking large before Clifford. "May God
						pity an old sinner for what'll be comin' to him for this!" he  murmured. At the door of the taxi he stepped aside. "Get in first," he said
						to Clifford; and, as Clifford obeyed, he smartly closed the door on Clifford's back.
						"All right," he called to the chauffeur.
					As the taxi moved away, a startled voice within the car exclaimed: "You!"
					Clifford then saw that he was sitting beside Mary. "Miss Regan!" he ejaculated,
						forgetting her new name.
					"Uncle George told me we were to pick up Jack."
					"I hope you'll forgive the deception. Don't blame Uncle George. Blame me."
					"What does this mean?" she demanded.
					"I felt I had to see you at once."
					"Why?"
					"You see, I could hardly help wanting to know what you had done."
					He had thought it more than likely that she would be angry. Her dark eyes did flash at
						him; but when she spoke she spoke very calmly.
					"There's no reason why you should not know; and I have no objections to telling you
						everything. What do you wish to know first?"
					"What you did first."
					She considered, then spoke with a cold frankness that was in keeping with her recent
						attitude toward him -- to show him her calculating worldliness, stark, unexcused.
					"I thought I had passed through the Golden  Doors, --
						that's a phrase of mine, -- but after that night at the Grantham when I saw you, I
						realized that I still stood far without them. I saw that I had either to vanish -- or be
						willing to wait my time, perhaps a long time, if I would see it through. I decided on
						the latter."
					"Yes," Clifford prompted.
					"That meant," the unsparing voice went on, "that for a long time Jack and I would
						hardly dare be seen openly together, that we had to live in seclusion. I made Jack see
						things as I saw them, so we sublet an apartment on Riverside Drive, and we're known
						there as Mr. and Mrs. Grayson."
					"And what about Jack's going to work?"
					"I thought that if through my influence Jack should settle down, it would help when his
						father finds out."
					"I see."
					"I realize perfectly," the cold voice continued, "another problem that I have to face.
						Jack likes gay company; further, you said it is not his nature to care for one woman
						long. Well, I must make Jack like me for a long time, and make him like me despite the
						solitude. I shall do it." She paused, then added: "I believe that is everything."
					They rode on in silence, Clifford covertly eyeing the erect, contained figure beside
						him -- guessing at what it must have cost her to give up her dreamed-of pleasure, to be
						forced into seclusion, to be forced to undertake the responsibility of sobering down a
							 joyous spendthrift. Life certainly had not given her
						what she had expected in her bargain.
					Again the question rose: how was it all coming out?
					The next afternoon Clifford, following Hilton, saw his quarry enter the Mordona, the
						great apartment house on the Drive before which he had left Mary the night before. He
						followed into the lobby just as his man disappeared into an elevator. He had no doubt on
						whom the dark gentleman was calling, or for what reason he called.
					Opening into the elaborate lobby, for whose gilded ostentation the tenants were
						assessed a goodly portion of their rent, was a florist's shop. Into the comparative
						privacy of this Clifford stepped to wait until his man came down: a move that was just
						in time, for from a descended elevator, which must have passed the one bearing Hilton
						aloft, stepped the square, solid figure of Bradley. Again Clifford had no doubt on whom
						the call had been made, or why.
					At last he had picked up a warm and very busy trail. Under pretense of an indecision
						over the flowers he should purchase, he waited for his man to come down, trying to
						reproduce the scene that was now going on in the "Graysons"' apartment, and the scene
						prior to it in which Bradley had figured. A quarter of an hour passed, then the debonair
						Hilton emerged from an elevator and strode out with a jaunty, smiling air.



					
					The next moment Clifford was in an elevator, shooting upward, and two minutes later
						Mary's maid was bearing his card through a curtained doorway. He caught Mary's voice
						sounding as though it were two rooms away, finishing what was obviously a telephone
						conversation: "You'll come as soon as you can get here? That's most kind of you.
						Good-bye."
					There was a delay; he guessed that Mary was surprised at this third successive call;
						then he was shown through the curtained doorway into the drawing-room. His swift
						impression of the room was that it was large for a New York apartment, and that its
						prodigal furnishings bespoke wealth rather than taste on the part of its absent lessee.
						The next moment Mary came in through a door which he judged led from the library. There
						was now in her bearing nothing of the cold frankness which she had shown him the day
						before. She was taut with controlled excitement, which he knew to be the product of the
						so recent interviews. Her manner was challenging.
					"What do you want?"
					He tried to speak in a steady, impersonal tone. "Mr. Bradley was here a few minutes
						ago. I'd be obliged if you'd tell me what he came for."
					"Pardon me for not obliging you -- but that is my own affair. Is this all?"
					"Another gentleman just called on you. Would you tell me what he wanted?"
					"That also is my own affair."



					

					"It might help me greatly if I knew exactly what he asked for," Clifford urged.
					"Perhaps. But that cannot concern me."
					"Then you will not tell?"
					"No."
					"Are you aware who this man is?"
					"He's a friend of Jack's."
					"Not much of a friend, I hope." Clifford still spoke in his steady, impersonal tone.
						"Mr. Hilton is one of several men that I am after -- and he's one of the cleverest and
						most dangerous of the lot. It is the easiest thing in the world for a crook who is
						well-dressed, well-mannered, and who can dance, to make acquaintances wherever he likes.
						The regular game of these crooks is to pick out a woman with money, or who can get
						money, make her acquaintance, gain her confidence and some of her secrets, and then lead
						her into a situation where she must pay or be exposed. This is your last visitor's
						special line. You might help me a lot if you would tell me what Mr. Hilton wanted from
						you."
					"He came to see me about a personal matter of no importance," she replied.
					"Pardon me if I do not believe you," he said.
					She made no response.
					"You will not tell?" he demanded.
					"I have nothing to tell," was her steady answer.
					"I might force you to tell -- " he snapped at her, but instantly cut himself off.
					"Since you won't tell me," he said, stepping more 
						squarely before her, "then I'll tell you. Bradley came here to blackmail you; blackmail
						is one of Bradley's big side-lines just now. Hilton was a follow-up man on the same
						business. If he was n't in this particular game before, he got next the other night at
						the Grantham. He saw you slip off your rings and hide them when Jack's father was coming
						to your table. He guessed what that action meant, and it was easy for him to dig up the
						rest."
					Clifford paused. "I'm right so far, yes?" he demanded. 
					But she did not speak.
					"And I can tell you just what he said," Clifford continued, "and how he said it -- for
						he's a most gentle-spoken party. It would cause him very great regret to have to tell
						Mr. Morton that his son had contracted a secret marriage, and it would cause him even
						greater regret to have to tell both the Mortons just who Mary Regan has been and just
						who are the members of her family. The only way he can be saved from inflicting upon
						himself this regret is for you to come across with a large sum of money. Well, is n't
						that about it? Now will you help me out?"
					"I can say no more than I have said," she replied.
					"Then I shall have to get him alone," Clifford said, with grim quiet. "Him and the
						others."
					He left her with no further word. On the way down in the elevator he recalled the
						fragment he had heard over the telephone; and again he stepped  into the convenient privacy of the florist's shop. Not more than two minutes
						had passed when he saw Peter Loveman enter one of the elevators. So it was Loveman she
						had been telephoning to. She had doubtless sent for the little lawyer to ask his advice
						-- the irony of it!
					Clifford waited for Loveman to descend. Fifteen minutes passed -- it was now getting on
						toward six; then into the lobby, walking eagerly, came Jack Morton. And then in the
						entrance, watching but discreetly unobtrusive, appeared Jack's father. Jack's elevator
						had made its trip up and had just descended, when the elder Morton crossed the lobby and
						addressed the elevator-man. The florist's door stood open, so Clifford heard every
						word.
					"By the way," said Mr. Morton, "what is the name of the gentleman, your only passenger,
						that you just took up? I thought I recognized him as an acquaintance." 
					"Mr. Grayson, sir."
					"He lives here?"
					"Yes, sir."
					"I suppose he has one of your bachelor apartments?" 
					"No, sir. He lives here with Mrs. Grayson."
					"To be sure. I did n't know Mrs. Grayson's health had permitted her to come back from
						California. Please don't mention my having been here; they might feel hurt at my not
						having come up."
					He slipped the man a bill and went out. Clifford 
						realized that Mr. Morton had been engaged upon a bit of private sleuthing on his own
						account: which might lead to -- what?
					Clifford thought a moment. Then he sought out the superintendent of the building, and
						after some very confidential talk, and a showing of credentials, which the
						superintendent verified by calling up Police Headquarters, he departed, bearing with him
						a pass-key to all the apartments of the Mordona.

				
				


				

					CHAPTER XII
					

					
						A GENTLEMAN OF PLEASURE
					

					THERE were at least four persons that Clifford knew it was desirable
						to keep under surveillance -- Bradley, Peter Loveman, Mr. Morton, and Hilton; but the
						professional ladies' man he regarded as the best clue to the immediate situation. "Yes,
						you stick to Hilton," Uncle George agreed decisively that evening at dinner. "When it
						comes to twisting women, that dear limber guy is a better committee on ways and means
						than any charmer that ever adorned himself in a smile, pumps, and a dress suit."
					That night Clifford trailed Hilton from restaurant to theater, and then to three of the
						smartest hotel ballrooms, and then, toward three in the morning, saw him to his hotel.
						He picked Hilton up at noon the next morning; lunched (it was Hilton's breakfast) at a
						table near him at the Ritz Carlton; followed him to a few restaurants where afternoon
						dancing was under way; and at exactly half-past five he followed him into the
						Mordona.
					He gave Hilton a minute's start, then rode up to the "Graysons'" apartment. Hilton had
						evidently been admitted, for the corridor was empty. Muffling the lock with a
						handkerchief, Clifford slipped  in the pass-key, and
						swiftly, but with velvet caution, he opened the door. Inside, he closed the door with as
						great care, and stood, unbreathing, listening kitchenward for the maid -- fingers on
						lips and a bill held out to check immediately any words should that young lady appear: a
						needless stratagem, since Mary had given her maid that afternoon out. Hearing nothing,
						he moved softly to the curtained doorway of the drawing-room, and glanced in. Apparently
						Mary had planned to go out to an early dinner, for she wore an evening gown. She was
						standing erect in the middle of the room, gazing with level eyes at the immaculate Mr.
						Hilton.
					"I am here at five-thirty, as I said I'd be," Hilton was saying, smiling pleasantly. "I
						hope you have seen the wisdom of my remarks and have reconsidered your defiant attitude
						of yesterday. You undoubtedly have a very good plan, and it would be most unfortunate"
						-- his voice was soothingly argumentative -- "if you compelled me to tell Mr. Morton
						about the marriage, and tell them both who your relatives are, and just who is Mary
						Regan. Most unfortunate, I assure you."
					"You need not squander your emotion. I have the money."
					"I approve your good sense! You have the full amount?"
					"You may count it for yourself." She held out a little roll.
					"Ten five-hundred-dollar bills. Correct. Though  it
						pinches me that you could not make it the ten thousand I asked for. However! I suppose"
						-- in high good humor -- "you'd like a receipt for this. It might help you in court if
						you ever decided to bring action against me."
					"Your jocularity is not greatly appreciated. Now that you have the money, I suggest
						that you go."
					"As pleases you." Drawing back the lapel of his slender afternoon coat -- it had been a
						warm afternoon, and he had worn no outer coat -- he slipped the bank-notes into the top
						pocket of his vest. "In leaving you, Mrs. -- ah -- Grayson, let me wish your little
						enterprise the most complete success. Good-afternoon."
					Clifford was on the point of springing into the room, when, to his amazement, from the
						door which opened into the library, there emerged the plump figure of Peter Loveman. On
						the face of the shrewd little lawyer was a bewildered, almost sickly look, the like of
						which Clifford had never beheld on that usually amiable and ruddy countenance.
					"Just a minute!" said Loveman.
					Hilton whirled about. "Oh, it's Loveman! Hello, Loveman."
					Loveman crossed toward the other. "What are you doing here?" he demanded.
					"Just making a little afternoon call. Will you return the courtesy and tell me how you
						come to be here? "
					"I was here when you came, and was waiting  until you had
						gone to finish my talk with Mrs. Grayson." Clifford could see that the control which had
						slipped away from Loveman was regained, for the little man was benign again --
						therefore, dangerous. "Are you sure, Hilton," he said softly, "that your purpose here
						was only to call?"
					"Merely social, Loveman," the other replied, smiling.
					"I think, Hilton," continued Loveman, in his soft, pleasant tone, "that anything you
						got here you'd better return to Mrs. Grayson."
					"I have nothing to return."
					"I think you'll find it wiser and more profitable in the end to return it," went on
						Loveman's pleasant voice.
					"I have nothing to return," repeated the other, drawing on his gloves.
					The two men gazed at each other steadily. Clifford could see that beneath Hilton's
						smiling politeness there was defiance, that beneath Loveman's soft manner there was
						menace. He was puzzled by this hostility, for he had figured that the pair, with
						Bradley, were working together. But he instantly perceived why this hostility should be
						masked; the two spoke thus indirectly because neither, or at least not Loveman, wished
						Mary to understand what lay between them. And Mary did not understand; the bewildered
						look she gave the pair told Clifford that.
					Hilton ended the brief tableau by picking up his  hat and
						stick, which he had carried into the room with him. "Good-afternoon, Mrs. Grayson; this
						has been a most pleasant occasion. So-long, Love- man."
					He was turning away when Clifford sprang through the doorway and upon him. Clifford
						seized his right wrist and swung the arm upward and backward with a vicious twist -- an
						old police trick -- and thrust a hand through the flaring front of the exquisitely
						tailored coat and possessed himself of the bank-notes. Hilton's stick and hat went
						flying; he let out a cry of surprise and pain; but before he knew what had happened to
						him there had snapped about his wrists a pair of handcuffs.
					Clifford jerked him forward, so that their faces were within a foot of each other.
						"Well, Hilton, this time I've got you with the goods on!" he snapped. "This will be the
						last woman you'll squeeze money out of for about five years!"
					"See here, I've done nothing," gasped the breathless Hilton. "That's my own money -- I
						had it when I came here."
					Clifford turned to Mary. "I warned you what he was -- one of the cleverest of that new
						trade whose specialty is squeezing big money out of women!"
					"He's done nothing," Mary affirmed, looking directly at Clifford. "You -- how did you
						get in here? I heard no ring."
					"Pass-key. That story does n't go, Mrs. Grayson -- it does n't go, Hilton. I was right
						on Hilton's  heels when he entered. I heard him demand the
						money on threat of exposure. I saw the money passed."
					He turned abruptly on Loveman. "And you, Loveman, you fit into this pretty little game,
						too!"
					"Me, Bob, my dear boy?" protested Loveman. "Why is it," he demanded, in a tone of
						mourning, "that the innocent bystander is the one that always gets the copper's stick
						over his new spring derby?"
					"Your suspicions against Mr. Loveman -- " began Mary.
					"Don't say a word, Mrs. Grayson," Loveman cut in quickly.
					"Your suspicions against Mr. Loveman are mistaken," persisted Mary. "Mr. Loveman gave
						me that money."
					"Gave you the money!" exclaimed Clifford.
					"Mrs. Grayson!" appealed Loveman.
					But Mary went on, speaking very steadily and with a formal precision. "You are right
						about Mr. Hilton. He came yesterday afternoon, demanding money which had to be paid by
						half-past five to-day. I at first refused; afterwards I recognized I didn't dare not
						pay. I did not know where to get such a sum, so I telephoned Mr. Loveman that I wished
						to see him. He came at once, and I told him of my situation and that I could not
						possibly raise the amount upon such short notice. Jack did not have the money, and I
						could not have asked him for the amount, anyhow; and my uncle is away  out on the coast. I asked Mr. Loveman's advice. He saw my
						predicament, and himself offered to give me the money. Half an hour ago he came,
						bringing the money which you have. I believe that completely exonerates Mr.
						Loveman."
					"Yes, Bob," Loveman said cheerfully, "I guess that lets me out."
					Clifford looked keenly at the little man's round, good-natured face -- behind which
						played an unmatched shrewdness. Clifford did not disbelieve Mary, yet it seemed to him
						out of the man's character to play such a rôle as Mary had described. This was one more
						aspect of the whole situation which for the moment bewildered him.
					"I think, Peter, we'll soon figure out just where you fit into this case," he said
						shortly. He turned to his prisoner. "At any rate, I've got you for fair, Hilton," he
						said grimly. "Loveman, kindly oblige Mr. Hilton by picking up his stick and hat."
					"You may have me all right," said Hilton, with a pale, twitching smile that he tried to
						force to be jauntily indifferent, "but when the evidence against me is produced in court
						what will happen to Mrs. Mary Regan Morton Grayson?"
					"Oh, I say, Bob," Loveman spoke up quickly, "call it square if he gives the money back
						to --"
					But his words were cut off by the ringing of the apartment bell. They all suddenly
						became as fixed as so many statues. Then Mary spoke, and her words came rapidly: -- 



					

					"It must be Jack, home from the office. He's probably forgotten his key. Mr. Loveman,
						you go to the door and prevent his coming in. Say whatever you like."
					Loveman slipped through the curtained doorway, and the next moment Clifford heard the
						outer door open. Then he heard an amazed voice exclaim: -- 
					"Well, if it's not Loveman! Now what the devil are you doing here?"
					Clifford and Mary both started. The amazed voice in the next room was not Jack's
						voice.
					"I'm here -- on a little business -- with Mrs. Grayson," stammered Loveman.
					"So am I," said the voice.
					"But she's engaged -- I assure you --"
					"I'll only take a minute or two. Come on; you shall introduce me. Don't hang back."
					The next moment Loveman was pushed through the door, and behind him appeared the tall
						figure of Mr. Morton, evening clothes showing beneath his overcoat. He stopped short at
						what he saw.
					"Why, Mr. Clifford!" he exclaimed. And then: "Why, I beg your pardon, Miss Gilmore! Or
						should I say Mrs. Grayson?"
					Clifford saw that Mary had gone almost white. He sensed, and he knew that she sensed,
						that one of the supreme crises of her new life -- the life that was to make her or break
						her -- was unexpectedly before them.
					Mary spoke calmly. "It is Mrs. Grayson now."



					

					"How rapidly events do happen in New York," Mr. Morton remarked politely, his keen gray
						eyes full upon her. "Miss Gilmore when I saw you at the Grantham -- Mrs. Grayson within
						a week. He must be a young Lochinvar, Mr. Grayson, the way he does things."
					Hilton had been standing beyond Clifford, blocked out of Mr. Morton's first swift
						survey of the scene. He now shifted forward, and Mr. Morton saw him, the grip of
						Clifford fastened on his upper arm, and the glinting handcuffs on his wrists.
					"What's this all about?" Mr. Morton exclaimed. Hilton was swift to see what advantage
						for him lay in the situation. He stepped nearer Mr. Morton. 
					"It means that I am the victim of a most unfortunate misunderstanding," he spoke up
						quickly. "Mr. Clifford believed, mistakenly, that I had come wrongfully by some five
						thousand dollars in my possession, and he took the money from me and placed me under
						arrest."
					"It's none of my business, I suppose," Mr. Morton said, "but is this correct, Mr.
						Clifford?"
					Clifford remained silent for a moment. In a flash he saw that for him to answer with
						the full truth would lead to Mary's instant ruin: this after he had declared that he had
						stepped out of her life, that he was going to leave to experience and her own decisions
						the shaping of her fate.
					"The last part of his statement is correct," replied 
						Clifford -- " that I took the money from him and placed him under arrest."
					"But he declares the money is his. If not, whose is it?"
					In the passing moment Clifford had decided to put it squarely up to Mary, to thrust the
						tangled threads of her destiny into her own hands. But Hilton beat him to the very reply
						he intended making.
					"Ask Mrs. Grayson whose money it is," cried Hilton, and, wheeling, he gave Mary a
						meaning look.
					But Mr. Morton's eyes waited on Clifford. Clifford turned and gazed at Mary.
					"Yes, ask Mrs. Grayson," said Clifford.
					"Mrs. Grayson," said Mr. Morton, "the ownership of this disputed money seems to rest on
						your word."
					She hesitated. Clifford read beneath that white, calm face: realized that she was on
						the thinnest of thin ice -- if indeed she were not already through it and in the black
						waters. He believed, and was certain she believed, that Mr. Morton already knew of the
						marriage -- but did he know of the other things?
					"Whose is it, Mrs. Grayson?" prompted Mr. Morton.
					She indicated Hilton with a nod. "The money is his; give it to him, Mr. Clifford," she
						said.
					Clifford quickly weighed his conflicting responsibilities. To give Life the chance to
						test Mary out  to the end of this experience weighed more
						important than the mere capture of Hilton.
					"Here it is," he said; and thrust the bills into one of the handcuffed hands -- and as
						he did so, out of the tail of his eye he caught a look of dismay on Loveman's face.
					"Since your affairs seem to be adjusted," put in Mr. Morton, "I dare say you'd like to
						be saying good-afternoon."
					Clifford removed the handcuffs, Loveman gave Hilton his hat and cane, and the
						professional entangler of women, though ruffled somewhat as to the perfection of his
						apparel, bowed himself out with exquisite manner.
					There was a moment of silence -- a strain upon all except Mr. Morton, who had the
						light, easy bearing of a man of the world at an afternoon tea. If he knew or guessed
						anything, he did not show it -- and his pleasant surface made him seem all the more
						dangerous.
					He gave Mary a slight but gracious bow. "I hope you'll forgive my dropping in so
						informally. But I had learned your address by chance, I happened to be in the
						neighborhood, and I wished to advance my acquaintance, begun when you were Miss
						Gilmore." 
					"I'm sure I'm glad you called," returned Mary.
					"Then we'll have a little visit -- yes?" He slipped off his overcoat. "Mr. Clifford, I
						know Mrs. Grayson would be glad to have you remain as our 
						chaperone. Mr. Loveman" -- with the faintest of ironic smiles -- " I know I would not
						have a ghost of a chance with such a famous lady's man in the company, so I am going to
						have the audacity to ask you to call again."
					He had spoken with lightness, but there had been autocratic demand behind his words.
						Loveman disappeared into the room whence Clifford had seen him emerge, and returned with
						hat and coat. He tried to speak an offhand good-bye -- though Clifford read that his
						soul was agitated with acute uneasiness -- and started out.
					"I'll be back in a moment," Clifford said to the two, and followed the little lawyer.
						He caught him in the hallway and held him with a hand on either shoulder.
					"Loveman," said he, looking down into the round face, "I certainly was up in the air
						for a time. But I've sized up the whole situation now."
					"What situation?"
					"The situation between you, Miss Regan, -- Mrs. Morton, I mean, -- and Hilton. I
						thought that, of course, you, Bradley, and Hilton were in the game together."
					"Well?"
					"I thought there was just one scheme on foot to blackmail Mrs. Morton. I've just
						tumbled to the fact that there were two schemes -- and that there's just been a head-on
						collision between the two."
					"Bob, my boy, please elucidate."



					

					"Further, Loveman, I understand your generosity in the matter of that five thousand.
						Bradley had demanded money, and you knew it. When Mary Regan sent for you yesterday,
						told you of the demand, and convinced you she could not possibly meet it, you had an
						inspiration. It would n't do to withdraw the demand; better to give her the money
						yourself, and thereby increase her confidence and gratitude -- that'd make her more
						inclined to fall in with you when you wanted to use her in some other big game. And your
						five thousand which you'd given her with your right hand, after she'd had it for just a
						few minutes, would come right back to your left hand. A great idea, Loveman -- great
						stuff!"
					"You're smoking too much hop," smiled Loveman -- but it was a sickly smile.
					"But there's many a slip 'twixt the right hand and the left. You never suspected that
						there was a second blackmailer on the job; Mrs. Morton probably thought that Bradley and
						Hilton were working together, and told you little more than that money was demanded. And
						Hilton has walked right off with your five thousand, and you'll not get it back. And
						your client in there, Mr. Morton, is on to Jack and Mary Regan, and the part you've
						played, and there's about to be an explosion, and the rest of your beans'll be spilled.
						Good-night, Peter, old boy, and may you have pleasant dreams!"
				

				

				

					CHAPTER XIII
					

					
						MR. MORTON TAKES A HAND
					

					ALL thought of the sickly-smiling Loveman, and all his ironic
						jocularity, slipped from Clifford as he stepped back into the graver situation which
						existed in the drawing-room. The pair had seated themselves during his absence; Mary was
						regarding Mr. Morton with a composure that must have heavily taxed her nervous
						capital.
					Clifford took a chair slightly apart. He felt that he had become merely an onlooker.
						The scene was to be played out between Mr. Morton and Mary. He judged that the easy
						manner of Mr. Morton was a ruthless fury, marvelously controlled. Watching them, he
						pulsed with suspense as to how Mary would bear herself during this scene, as to how it
						would come out.
					Clifford had found them silent when he had reentered, and this silence, pregnant with
						big drama, continued for a moment longer. Then Mr. Morton smiled.
					"I don't believe in beating about the bush, Mrs. Grayson. It's awfully hard on the
						shrubbery. So I'll come to the point. Of course you know why I'm here."
					"You said you came to renew your acquaintance with Miss Gilmore," she managed to
						say.



					

					"Oh, that, of course. But there's another reason. You see" -- with his pleasant smile
						-- "I happen to know Mr. Grayson."
					(Why in God's name, Clifford asked himself, did n't the man set loose the anger and
						denunciation and defiance customary in such situations, and not play this cat-and-mouse
						game!)
					"And Mr. Grayson being such a good friend," Mr. Morton continued, "in fact, a most
						intimate friend, I naturally was most eager to become acquainted with Mrs. Grayson.
						Please do not consider that I am descending to mere flattery, Mrs. Grayson, when I say
						that I applaud his taste."
					"Thank you."
					"I do not mean to depreciate him, but he has shown a finer discrimination than I
						thought Mr. Grayson capable of."
					Clifford saw Mary stiffen. He knew her instinct to rush forth to meet an inevitable
						danger.
					"I also do not believe in beating about the bush," she said quietly. "We both are aware
						that in speaking of Mr. Grayson we are speaking of your son."
					The veiled keenness in Mr. Morton's eyes became open. "I perceive, Mrs. Grayson, that
						you are not only beautiful, but that you are an unusual woman." He did not speak for a
						moment; then, "Let me add that I not only applaud Jack's taste, but approve his
						choice."
					Both Clifford and Mary started. "You approve Jack's choice!" she breathed.


					

					"How could I help it?" he returned.
					Clifford and Mary could only stare at him. They had expected outraged fury -- and this
						had come! They were so dazed that they did not know Jack had entered until he stammered:
						-- 
					"Father -- you here!"
					"The evidence indicates such, my boy," returned the elder Morton.
					"Why -- why --" He looked about, frightened, helpless, at the three; and then stammered
						on: "I went to the Biltmore to meet you, as you telephoned; but they told me you were
						out, and I thought I'd run up here for a minute and then get back -- "
					"My engagement with you," interrupted Mr. Morton, "was merely a fatherly subterfuge to
						keep you away from here while I had a little visit with Mrs. Grayson."
					"Then" -- he choked, swallowed -- "then you know everything?"
					"Not everything. But I know the essentials."
					"Oh, my God!" And Jack collapsed almost bonelessly into a chair and covered his face
						with his hands.
					"Come, brace up -- there's nothing to worry about," half growled Clifford.
					"It's all right, Jack," explained Mary. "Your father says he approves your choice!"
					Jack was on his feet as though an electric current had hurled him upright. "Is that so,
						dad?"
					Mr. Morton nodded.




					

					In two eager steps Jack was across the room wringing his father's hand. "You don't know
						how relieved I am!"
					"Why should you think I'd object after really meeting Mrs. Grayson?"
					"Call her Mary, dad."
					"Mary, then, with your permission. Plainly Mary is a young woman of exceptional sense,
						and I am sure she and I will understand each other splendidly." 
					Jack crossed swiftly to Mary. "Mary!" he exclaimed, seizing her hands, "Mary!" And then
						in a lower voice, though Clifford heard him: "It's all coming true, Mary, -- it's all
						coming true!"
					The Golden Doors had marvelously swung open!
					Mr. Morton was speaking again: "Let's get back to sensible talk -- which is what I came
						here for. I wish to commend your discretion in this matter. Boys will be boys, but
						usually they're boys in such a noisy way. I'm sure the discretion was yours, Mary."
					"Discretion? I don't know what you mean," said Mary.
					"I mean that you have done everything so well," he continued pleasantly. "You've not
						laid the affair open to instant recognition by thoughtlessly flaunting yourself about
						with Jack. You've even taken the precaution of wearing the conventional rings. It's the
						Riverside Drive affair done in the best Riverside-Drive-affair manner."



					

					Clifford saw Mary go white again, and whiter than before, as Mr. Morton spoke; and he
						thought she was going to fall as she gathered the meaning of his words -- gathered what,
						since he had first entered, had been his real conception of the relationship. 
					"But, dad -- " began Jack in a throaty voice. "You don't know what you're saying! You
						don't understand. The truth is -- "
					"Jack!" cut in Mary.
					"Oh, yes, I do understand," his father assured him. "And don't try to shield Mary with
						protestations. She does n't need such flimsy protection."
					"Dad," demanded the young fellow huskily, "what do you think this situation is?"
					"The obvious and usual one: you're living here together; as they always say it on the
						stage, she's your mistress."
					He turned to Mary. "Jack's a sentimentalist. But you're a sensible woman and don't
						humbug yourself by hesitating to call a thing by its right name."
					His last words were an even-toned affirmation of a commonplace, not a question.
						Clifford watched Mary closely: of a certainty, Life was testing her! He waited tensely
						for her reply, and so did Jack -- and Clifford realized what vague worlds of different
						events hung upon the words yet within her lips.
					"I am Jack's mistress -- yes," she said, looking very straight into Mr. Morton's
						eyes.



					

					"Mary, that's -- "
					"Jack!" she ordered sharply.
					"There's no nonsense about you, Mary," said Mr. Morton approvingly. "Jack has braced up
						so much recently -- "
					"If I have braced up, it's been because Mary has made me!" put in Jack.
					"I don't doubt it, and I want to thank you, Mary. He's braced up so much that a
						long-contemplated marriage, which has been delayed by his irresponsibility, can now go
						through; and I want it settled and over with, quick, while Jack is still in a reformed
						mood -- before he breaks loose again. I know you'll be sensible and reasonable about
						this matter, for I know you went into the affair knowing it could not last."
					Jack seized his father's arm. "Father, you've got to listen -- "
					"Jack!" Mary again cried peremptorily.
					"She's taking it with a lot more sense than you are, son. I'll see that you have no
						reason to complain, Mary. I'll ask Mr. Clifford to talk over the arrangement with you.
						He can speak in better taste for me than I can speak for myself."
					He took her hand, and there was a very real admiration -- of its sort -- in his gray
						eyes. He spoke in a lowered voice.
					"Merely because Jack must go, I don't want it to be the end of things between you and
						the Mortons. I hope I may have the pleasure of seeing you soon."



					
					"Perhaps," said her lips.
					"I shall count on it!" -- pressing her hand.
					He turned away. "Well, son, are you ready? I've made an engagement for you for
						to-night."
					But Jack sprang to Mary's side, and seized in both of his the hand his father had just
						relinquished. His handsome if weak face was working with indignant, protesting passion;
						for the moment he was strong and sincere and fine to the capacity of his nature.
					"Mary, I'm not going to stand for this! I'm not going to leave you in this way -- I'm
						not that kind of a rat!"
					"We're going to do just as your father says, Jack," she said with quiet dominance, her
						face very pale. "What he suggests is wisest for us all."
					Jack stared at her; he could not read whether there was subterfuge or utter finality in
						her words. But whatever her purpose, he recognized that in this situation her way had to
						be his. His figure slumped down, and he turned about.
					"Put into a suitcase whatever you may need at once; you can send for your other
						things," said his father, and pressed him through the door. "Mary, after a few minutes
						in the next room with me, Mr. Clifford will return for a talk with you. For myself this
						must be good-night."
					"Good-night."
					Bowing, he went out. As Clifford -- mere audience -- followed him, he saw that Mary
						stood unchanged:  stiffly erect, and pale and composed --
						though he had a sense that her dark eyes were unnaturally wide.
					When Clifford reentered the room fifteen minutes later, Mary was lying face downward on
						the couch, her whole figure taut. She heard him come in, and at once spoke, not changing
						her posture: -- 
					"You've been talking all this while?"
					"We spoke for only a few minutes. The rest of the time I've been sitting in there,
						thinking." Then, with a savage burst: "I would n't have let Morton use me, only I wanted
						to see you again!"
					"What did he say?"
					"He told me to settle with you on any reasonable terms." Clifford stopped and waited,
						but she did not speak. "Want to know what he might possibly give?" he demanded.
					"What else did he say?" she asked, not moving.
					"A lot of things -- to the general effect that you were a damned decent, square little
						sport."
					She made no response to this.
					"Why did you accept the position he put you in, of being Jack's mistress?" he burst out
						roughly.
					"I could not help myself -- unless I wanted to ruin everything."
					"Surely you do not still hope to save that situation?" he exclaimed.
					She did not answer, and again there was silence. Then the doorbell rang.



					
					
						 "WHY DID YOU ACCEPT THE POSITION HE PUT YOU IN?" HE BURST OUT
							ROUGHLY 

					

					


					

					"Shall I answer it?" he asked. "It's probably Jack slipped up for a private word."
					"I'll answer it," she said.
					She rose from the couch. He had expected signs of conflict, agony, perhaps tears or
						hysteria; -- if only there should be a real outbreak of hysteria! But her face was
						composed and clear-eyed.
					She returned a moment later, bearing a large box, on its top in gilded letters the name
						of the florist who had a shop opening on the Mordona's lobby. She removed the lid and
						disclosed a rich mass of orchids. On their top lay a small envelope such as florists
						have in stock for the convenience of patrons. From this she drew a card, which she read
						and then passed to Clifford without comment. It was Mr. Morton's card, and on its two
						sides was closely written: -- 
					
						I am going to be a lonely man to-morrow. Won't you save me from myself by dining with
							me at the Ritz? -- and then an act or two of a play, and then supper wherever you
							like? I'll telephone you. -- The West Indies are heaven just now, and I'm thinking of
							chartering a yacht. A cruise of a month or so in those waters -- But shall we talk it
							over to-morrow night?
					
					Clifford gazed at her, automatically handing her back the card. Rage surged up in him,
						and he seized the box from her arms and, stepping to the window near which they stood,
						he raised it, and threw far out into the Drive some fifty dollars' worth of orchids. He
						drew down the window and turned back to MARY REGAN her.
						But her look expressed neither approval nor disapproval.
					"Well, you see where you are!" he said grimly. "And you once called them the Golden
						Doors!"
					She nodded, but otherwise did not respond. Her face, fixed absently on his, was
						intently thoughtful.
					Her silence, her control, her look of far-away thought, stirred both anger and
						consuming curiosity. "Well -- what are you going to do? What's the way out?"
					"It's not the way out I'm thinking of -- it's the way in," she returned slowly,
						quietly. "The Golden Doors are going to open."
					"Open! How?"
					"I do not know."
					"Through that Mr. Mor--" he was beginning, when he noticed that her fingers had
						mechanically torn the card across.
					"I do not know," she repeated quietly. "But they are going to open. And now, please go
						-- I want to think."
					He gazed at her a moment, marveling that such unforeseen manipulations of Life, Life
						the great moulder and remoulder, had not seemed to change her ambition, her pride, her
						will, her girlish confidence: he understood her -- yet she was the eternal mystery! Then
						he left her, standing in the middle of the hired drawing-room, mechanically tearing into
						tiny sifting flakes the invitation to a voyage among perfumed seas.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XIV
					

					
						MARY FACES A CRISIS
					



					CLIFFORD had just gone, and Mary now sat alone in the ornate
						drawing-room which for a brief week she had occupied as "Mrs. Grayson," and considered
						rapidly the situation in which her own will and the unforeseen working-out of life and
						human nature had, within the last half-hour, suddenly placed her. Concrete questions,
						with their inseparable difficulties and dangers, rushed upon her: What was Clifford
						going to do? What was Jack going to do, whose mistress she had just declared herself to
						be before his father? And what would be the next move of Jack's father, amiable forgiver
						of what he considered Jack's discreet liaison, whose invitation to a yachting tour for
						two among West Indian seas lay in tiny fragments upon the floor? -- which invitation,
						she knew, he would soon repeat and press for an answer. And most especially, just what
						was she going to do herself to make her way safely through all these dangers which beset
						her plans?
					Again she recalled Clifford's grim words: he was through interfering with her, he was
						going to leave it to Life, to the shaping forces of Life's experiences, to make her or
						ruin her. Well, she was going to show him! She was going to make Life her tool, her
						ally,  her servant -- she was going to bend all its
						currents to carry her in the direction of her desire!
					And then for a space she felt herself at a loss in this new turn of affairs. She felt
						the instant need of the guidance of some one near to her. Clifford? No, she would have
						nothing to do with him now. Her brother Slant-Face? But her present situation was not
						the sort in which the skill of her brother, whom discretion had necessitated her
						neglecting, could possibly avail her. And then she thought of Uncle George. He was her
						friend, he would understand her; and no one could give more shrewd counsel, could plan
						more cunningly, than this urbane old master of the follies of the world and of the
						stratagems by which the world could be made to believe his wishes to be its own inborn
						desires. Yes, she would call in Uncle George.
					And then, suddenly, she had a different vision of her situation. For the present, at
						least, she must act alone. She arose quickly. Those questions that had been so prompt to
						ask themselves, those dangers that had presented themselves so vividly, they indeed
						pressed her sorely; but most pressing of all, she decided, was that she should move from
						here where all could find her to some obscure hotel, where she might remain undiscovered
						for a few days and have time in which to plan and act. She ordered the trunks up; and at
						once, with the help of her maid, she set about the packing, which was quickly finished
						since she and Jack had brought nothing to this  richly
						furnished apartment except their clothes. All her own things for which she would have an
						early need she put into one steamer trunk and a bag.
					She had changed into a traveling-suit, had paid and sent away her maid, and was
						standing in the hall of the apartment watching the baggageman tag the trunks and taking
						from him the,claim checks, when the apartment door opened and in stepped Jack.
					He stared at Mary, at the trunks, at the change that had been made in their brief home
						since he had left it two hours before. But he stood quietly at one side, until the
						baggageman had shuffled into the corridor with a trunk humped upon his shoulders.
					"Mary, what does this mean?" he demanded sharply.
					"I'm just leaving; I have n't time to tell you now. I'll write you or telephone
						you."
					She started past him, but he caught her arm. "Mary, I'm going to know this now! And I'm
						going to understand everything else!"
					He was white, and so wrought up with excitement that she perceived that whatever
						problems she might be facing, the most pressing and the most dangerous was the barely
						suppressed frenzy of the young man before her -- which frenzy, if not controlled and
						insulated, might bring about an explosion and cause half a dozen other explosions. "Come
						on," she said, and led the way from the stack of trunks through the drawing-room, so
						recently the scene of unforgettable drama, into the study, where there was a heavy door
							 that gave privacy and in which minor explosions could
						take place unheard. Jack closed the door, and stood with his back against it -- a tense,
						white, haggard figure, made to seem all the more haggard by the contrast of the
						unemotional formality of evening clothes.
					"I was at dinner with father and Maisie Jones -- she's the girl they want to marry me
						to -- and a few others, but I managed to give them the slip!" he said rapidly, by way of
						explaining his presence. "Tell me" -- his burning eyes were fixed on her -- "what do
						those trunks mean?"
					She told him the truth; not the whole of it, but what she did tell was true enough.
					"You're not going to do anything of the sort!" he declared. "But we won't argue that
						point now. First tell me this -- why, in the name of God, when my father discovered you
						here at the Mordona two hours ago, did you admit that you were my mistress? Yes, and
						made me admit it!"
					She spoke quietly, hoping to calm him by her reasonable voice. "It began with your
						father's mistaken conception of our relations. His mistake saved us. It would have been
						foolish not to have fallen in with his mistake. Surely you understand that?"
					"I did n't understand it, and it made me sick!" he cried. "I backed you up, just
						because I knew you wanted me to. But I'm not going to stand any longer for this lying,
						this living in secret! I'm going to end it!"



					

					"End it? How?"
					"I'm not going to let my father, or any one else, think of you as my mistress! I'm
						going to tell him we're married! And from now on everything's going to be in the
						open!"
					She had never liked him more than just then. Whatever else he might be in the future,
						she would never be able to forget him as he was at this his highest moment -- frenzied,
						outraged, dominated by reckless impulse. But she saw the danger to her dreams in this
						attitude.
					"It's fine of you to say that, Jack, but you must not do it."
					"Why not?" he demanded.
					She strove to keep her reasoning, soothing tone. "It ought to be plain to you, Jack.
						You are entirely dependent on your father. If he were told of our marriage --
						particularly since he's so eager to have you marry that other girl -- he'd be sure to
						cut you off in every way, and I'm not going to have that happen to you." Within herself
						she was also saying that if Mr. Morton were told of the marriage, and if she and Jack
						lived in the open, father and son would inevitably and swiftly learn who she really was
						-- and that would end everything. "We must keep it all quiet, Jack," she went on, "and
						keep on waiting, and after a time we'll have our chance to win your father around. You
						leave it to me."
					His face had suddenly darkened at mention of his father. "What did Clifford offer you
						in my  father's behalf, after we'd gone?" he demanded
						abruptly.
					"Mr. Clifford told me that your father would give me in settlement any sum I might
						mention."
					"And your reply to that?"
					"I did n't make any reply. There was none."
					"He'll expect a reply. He'll come for it himself, if necessary."
					"That's one reason for my moving -- because I knew he would come."
					"Was that all dad offered?" Jack demanded. "You made a big hit with him."
					She thought it best that the inflammable youth should remain ignorant of the father's
						invitation, convoyed by orchids each worth a bank-note, to the supposedly disespoused
						mistress of his son to join him in a very exclusive cruise.
					"That was all that happened," she answered steadily.
					Quickly, but without seeming haste, she shifted from this dangerous subject, back to
						their difference. "Of course you agree, Jack," she pressed him, "that we must still keep
						things quiet, and keep on waiting?" 
					His desperate mood was instantly back upon him again. "Even if we could keep up that
						pretense," he cried, -- "why, you're forgetting Maisie Jones! You're forgetting my
						predicament!"
					"Your predicament?"
					"I can't keep it quiet, even if I want to! Don't  you
						see? Now that I've settled down into a steady business man -- your doing! -- all parties
						are willing that Maisie and I should at once be formally engaged and then be married in
						a very short time. Father's pushing it across as though it were a big option that
						expired to-morrow. Get the fix that puts me in? There are only three things for me to
						do. Run away from it all, in which case dad 'll be done with me as long as he lives. Or
						say I won't go through with the thing with Maisie, and give no reasons -- which means
						the same result. Or else come right out with the truth that I'm married to you. See my
						fix?"
					Mary saw; and swiftly judging her many-angled situation she saw that, however pressing
						other matters might be, this matter of the other girl was the first business that must
						be somehow adjusted if she were to realize her vaulting dreams -- if she were to pass
						through the Golden Doors. And as she perceived this, she had an instant's realization,
						that this business of gaining the worldly heights, which had at the inception of her
						plan seemed so simple and easily achievable, was every day becoming more complicated,
						more tortuous. Again Clifford's grim words flashed briefly back: "I'll leave it to Life
						to test you." ...
					"So, you see, I might just as well come across with the truth about our marriage!" Jack
						exclaimed. "It's the best way out of the fix!"
					Mary hardly heard him; she was rapidly considering  this
						new problem. "You've never told me how it came about, this arrangement with Miss
						Jones."
					"Oh, just the way such matters usually happen. Maisie and I have known each other for a
						long time; there's been a sort of unspoken understanding in our families that some day
						we'd get married -- and I guess I fell right in with it. You see, I rather liked Maisie,
						and I'd never thought much about such affairs, and it did n't make much difference. But
						-- well, you know, I have n't been behaving very well; and her people said there'd be
						nothing doing unless I straightened out. Since you've set me to work and kept me
						working, they've recalled their veto -- and it's all right with them. That's about the
						size of the situation."
					"What's her attitude toward you?"
					"Maisie's? I guess Maisie rather likes me. In fact," he confessed, "though I don't
						deserve it, Maisie really likes me a lot."
					"What's she like?" Mary asked quickly.
					"You mean looks, or -- or personally?"
					"Personally."
					"Maisie's an awfully fine girl," he answered soberly.
					"Does she have any special interest? -- something through which an appeal might be made
						to her?"
					"I don't quite understand?"
					Mary saw that for her purpose, it might not help any if he did understand. "Where is
						she staying?"



					

					"At the Grantham."
					"Who's with her?"
					"An aunt; her father's sister, who thinks she manages Maisie. But Maisie does just as
						she pleases. -- But what are you driving at with all these questions about Maisie?"
					"I don't know myself yet. You can avoid committing yourself for a few days?"
					"I suppose I can stall for that much longer."
					"Then listen, Jack, -- here's just what we've got to do," she said rapidly, dominantly.
						"No matter what you think, or feel, we've got to keep our affair quiet for the present,
						and go ahead just as we originally planned, except that you're to stay with your father.
						I'll not consent to any other arrangement, so it's no use arguing. You go every day to
						your office just as you've been doing; I'll call you up there when I want you. And don't
						be surprised at anything you see."
					"But what are you going to do, Mary?" he insisted. 
					"I don't just know yet; I'll let you know when I do. If we keep our nerve it will all
						come out all right. Here are the claim checks to your trunks; I have ordered all the
						baggage sent to the Grand Central Station. You must go now, Jack, -- you really
						must!"
					She fairly pressed the bewildered, unwilling Jack from the apartment; and then for a
						few moments she stood in the hall, now cleared of her luggage,  rapidly planning. Then she shot down the elevator and hurried out of the
						Mordona to a taxi, -- fortunately just missing Loveman, who she knew was coming here to
						see her, -- and some twenty minutes later, again registered at the Grantham as " Mrs.
						Gardner." She was the occupant of a suite on the same corridor as Miss Maisie Jones, and
						had ordered her trunks brought from the Grand Central Station.
					Settled here, she continued her planning. There seemed no end to the plans that had to
						be thought out, to the dangers that must be eluded and averted. And yet she felt
						confident -- very confident.
					But mixed with her confidence was an intermittent apprehension. She believed she had
						avoided the others. But Clifford -- if Clifford would only not interfere.
				

				
				

					CHAPTER XV
					

					
						LOVEMAN SHOWS HIS CLAWS
					

					BUT the next morning came, and as yet there had been no signs of
						Clifford.
					At half-past ten Mary rang at the door of Maisie Jones. Her plan for beginning their
						acquaintance was very simple, merely the adaptation of an ancient device belonging to
						her past with her father and her Uncle Joe Russell -- the preparation of two letters
						addressed to Miss Maisie Jones, which were in fact nothing more than modistes' engraved
						invitations to inspect new spring styles.
					Miss Jones herself answered Mary's ring. "My name's Mrs. Gardner -- these letters
						somehow got mixed in my mail," Mary began, smiling with the engaging frankness she knew
						how to assume. "I could have returned them to you by the maid; but the maid -- it seems
						you and I have the same maid -- told me that your aunt was ill, and I thought I'd bring
						them myself and make it an excuse to do such an un-New-Yorkish thing as to ask how a
						sick neighbor is."
					"Aunt's not seriously ill," said Maisie Jones.
					"But I suppose her illness means that you must stay pretty close to your rooms?"
					"Yes."



					

					"I can sympathize with you. I'm convalescing from pneumonia, and am supposed to rest
						the whole time. To confess the truth to you" -- with a smile of guiltily humorous candor
						-- "my real reason for bringing the letters myself was that I saw in it a few minutes'
						relief from this awful boredom of getting well."
					Miss Jones hesitated. "Won't you please come in ?"
					Mary entered. The rest was natural development, a development which with her skill she
						made rapid. She was humorously frank about herself, and from personal bits which she
						adroitly dropped here and there, she let Miss Jones gather that she was the daughter of
						a New York family who moved among the city's smarter set, that her husband was in the
						far West, on business, and that the other members of the family -- they were an
						irrational and self-centered lot -- were at Florida and California resorts gratifying
						their various individual predilections. 
					Frankness begot frankness. Maisie Jones, a shut-in, was most willing to talk; but Mary,
						though making a show of lively interest in what was said, was shrewdly studying the
						girl. Maisie was strikingly handsome -- a specimen of the American girl who has been
						through a fashionable school and then had a successful year or two in society. Mary
						catalogued the qualities her plans must take account of: she was spoiled, willful,
						proud, jealous -- possibly vindictive.
					This first study of Maisie completed, and the opening 
						made for future meetings, Mary started back to her suite, thrilling with confidence. Her
						plan was under way! And she was going to succeed, even though she was going it
						alone!
					But when she entered her sitting-room, she stopped short. For from a chair had risen
						the smiling person of Peter Loveman.
					"Good-morning, my dear," said the little lawyer.
					"How did you get here?" she demanded sharply.
					"I told the people at the desk -- I know 'em all here -- that you'd telephoned for me,
						and had asked me to come right up. Your door was not locked. That's all."
					"But how did you know I was staying here?"
					"I'm afraid you were followed from the Mordona last night," he answered placidly.
					"How many know this?"
					"Two or three -- not many more," answered the little lawyer.
					So then she was not to have her few unmolested days in which to mature and execute her
						present designs. Her dangers were in point of time closer to her than she had thought.
						Well, she must work all the more quickly, all the more skillfully.
					She seated herself, and he resumed his chair. "Of course you've come here for a reason,
						Mr. Loveman. What is it?"
					"That was a fine little idea, Mary, we originally worked out for this affair," he began
						amiably -- "for you to marry Jack Morton, keep the matter 
						quiet until you were fixed solid with Jack, and until conditions developed so that you
						could win over his father. Yes, a fine little idea. It would have landed you at the top,
						where nothing ever could have touched you."
					"What are you thinking of now?" she asked sharply.
					"Nothing, my dear, -- only we both know that fine little idea has had a great fall, and
						all the king's horses and all of God's angels can't ever put that idea together
						again."
					"What are you thinking of?" she repeated.
					He did not reply at once, but smiled affably and softly rubbed his hairless crown. The
						shrewdest brain of its kind in New York had done a lot of thinking in the last sixteen
						hours. Certainly the first stages of the plan, the plan as he had planned it for
						himself, had fallen down calamitously. And he had seen the further stages of the plan
						(as the plan, unknown to Mary, concerned him) menaced with sudden danger -- and had seen
						even himself, personally, on the brink of uncalculated misfortune.
					"Is n't it plain what I'm thinking of, Mary?" he said after a moment. "After what
						happened yesterday, it does n't count for much that for the time you made Mr. Morton
						believe you were only Jack's mistress. He's certain to learn the facts very shortly;
						your whole plan is the same as exploded. You may stave off the end for a day, two days
						-- but hardly longer."



					

					She refrained from speaking of her present enterprise. "What do you think we ought to
						do?"
					"This has always been a business proposition for you," he replied in his amiable,
						reasoning manner, "and the way things have turned, it naturally is going to be a
						business proposition for me -- Mr. Morton being my client, you know. So let's consider
						how we can make the most out of it. Now, first item, Mr. Morton is bound to find out the
						truth in a few days. If he finds it out for himself, nobody's going to profit. We simply
						lose, say, ten thousand dollars. My first proposition -- this is small money, of course
						-- is that we arrange to beat Mr. Morton to this discovery. You know, for some time I
						have been under directions from Mr. Morton to follow up Jack's doings. Now, let's say
						that to-morrow I turn in a report that the detectives I've employed have just discovered
						that Jack is married -- which will mean a bill for detective service of at least ten
						thousand. Right there is ten thousand saved out of the ruin. Of course I'll split it
						with you."
					Mary managed to control her expression; she saw a few things regarding Loveman she had
						not susspected. "And after that?"
					"Of course Mr. Morton will want to institute proceedings for a divorce, and naturally
						I'll be retained as his attorney. You 'll make him pay big for the separation; and I
						being on the inside can tell you the limit that you can make him pay over."



					
					He smiled at her genially as though it were a settled matter which Mary's good sense
						would applaud. Now that the time had come to do business, and since he considered that
						Mary was in this with him, he had not hesitated to reveal a fragment of his method as a
						specialist in domestic affairs -- which was to play both ends and every point between.
						Smiling, he expectantly awaited Mary's approval.
					"And after that's done, then what becomes of me?" she asked.
					"Why, my dear, it will be handled so that you'll come out of the proceedings with a
						pretty fair reputation and holding tight to the name of Mrs. Jack Morton. With such a
						handsome woman as you are, and such a start, there's nothing I could n't do with you if
						you privately put yourself under my direction! Nothing!"
					He rubbed his soft, finely manicured hands in excited anticipation, and let his speech
						run free. "Honest, Mary, this is the big thing I've seen in this business from the
						beginning. I never thought anything really big or permanent would develop from that
						marriage. Compared to other prospects, that was only pin-money -- only the starter --
						only the prologue. The curtain really goes up when we're through with this. Mary, my
						dear, if I were to tell you what I've done for some women in this town -- you'd
						certainly sit up! I don't know now just what I'll do with you; I'm an opportunist -- I
						always play for the biggest chance that comes along  at a
						given time, or for the biggest chance that I can develop. But what I'll do for you will
						be strictly within the law -- it may even be most thoroughly respectable. I tell you,
						Mary," he enthused, "with me handling you, with my knowledge of New York life and of the
						strings to pull, there is nothing I can't do for you! -- I tell you nothing!"
					His large eyes were shining on her brilliantly. Rarely had this master of domestic
						intrigue, this marvelously keen student of human nature and subtle manipulator of human
						weakness and ambitions, been stirred by his own excited imagination to such a frank, if
						incomplete, statement of the methods of his art. For a moment, despite herself, Mary
						felt half carried away by the power of the little man; saw herself for a moment as
						perhaps at some future time being fitted into one of his amazing plans.
					"And for all this what would you expect?" she asked.
					"Naturally a manager would expect a manager's share." And as she did not respond, he
						prompted her briskly: "Well, now, let's get back to the first proposition -- though
						that's mighty small peanuts. I suppose to-morrow will suit you all right for me to give
						Mr. Morton my detectives' report that his son is married?"
					"No."
					"No! Why not? It won't be safe to put it off any longer."



					

					"Mr. Loveman," she said quietly, looking at him very steadily, "I'm going straight
						ahead with the original plan."
					He sprang from his chair, fairly sputtering surprise. "Why, you're crazy! You can't do
						it!"
					"I'm going to try."
					"But you'll fall down flat! You can't possibly keep this thing going for more than a
						day or two!"
					"I'm going to try," she repeated.
					"If you do, you'll not only ruin yourself, but you'll ruin some more of us, too," he
						said in consternation. "Why, yesterday, when Mr. Morton found me in your apartment at
						the Mordona, I had the closest sort of shave. And now, if you try to keep on with your
						plan, and the certain explosion comes, don't you see that Morton will learn that while
						retained by him I've also been sitting in the game with you? Don't you see you'll ruin
						me?"
					"So that's why you've come to me with these new propositions?" she said keenly -- "to
						save your own skin?"
					"Yes," he said defiantly, "though those new propositions, the last one at least, were
						always part of the plan I'd had for you."
					They were now standing face to face, she almost half a head the taller. "Peter
						Loveman," she said slowly, distinctly, "despite your skin, and my skin, I'm going
						straight ahead."
					"What!" he exclaimed, astounded; and then: "You can't! There's that explosion, due in a
						day or  so -- and after that you'll be nothing but smoke
						and dam' thin smoke!"
					"I have my own idea of how to do it, and I believe I can succeed. Anyhow, I'm going
						straight ahead."
					"No, you're not!" he said sharply. In a moment the usually amiable face had become grim
						with menace -- and few faces could be more truly menacing. "If you won't play this game
						with me, Mary Regan, then this minute I cut you out of it and play the game alone."
					"Just what does that mean?"
					"It means that I'll not get as much out of it as if we worked together -- but I'll get it, and get it certain.  It means that in half an hour Mr. Morton
						will have my detectives' report telling of the discovery of his son's secret marriage
						and telling all about who the wife is. And it means that I'll handle the suit for
						separation -- and that I'll collect for both services. And it also means that I'll deny,
						and deny successfully, any statement that you may make as to any relations between us. I
						guess that fixes you!"
					"So, you'd do that!" she breathed, staring at him. Then, without another word, she
						crossed to her desk and took up the telephone. "Central, please give me Broad 9000."
					In a moment Loveman was across the room and had seized her arm. "That's Mr. Morton's
						office!" he exclaimed. "What're you up to?"
					Giving him no heed, she spoke into the instrument. "Is this Broad 9000? . . . Please
						tell Mr.  Morton, Senior, that Mrs. Grayson wishes to
						speak to him."
					One of Loveman's hands closed with a swift, spasmodic grip over the telephone's
						mouthpiece, the other hand fiercely gripped Mary's arm.
					"What's this you're up to?" he demanded huskily.
					She gave him a calm, defiant look. For a moment they stood so, silent, the telephone
						clutched by both of them.
					"I'm going to beat you to it -- that's all, Peter Loveman. I'm going to telephone Mr.
						Morton about Jack's secret marriage and about who his wife is -- and there'll be no big
						bill for detective services for you. And I'm going to tell Mr. Morton that I shall not
						oppose any kind of divorce or separation or annulment proceedings, and that I shall not
						ask for or accept one dollar in the way of settlement -- and that means there will be no
						big fee for you for handling a difficult case. Out of this you'll get exactly nothing.
						Now, I guess that fixes you!"
					His large eyes gazed at her with an almost super- penetration. But there was no
						doubting that she would do as she had said. His usually ruddy face, gone pale the moment
						before, now took on a yellowish tinge. Then he laughed with forced joviality, and
						removed his hands from the telephone and her arm.
					"That certainly was once that one of my jokes was taken seriously." He laughed again.
						"Why, you  poor child -- of course I was n't going to
						double- cross you!"
					She was not deceived by this swift change of front. She knew that she had shown the
						higher card.
					"Is what you say to be interpreted as meaning that you will not interfere with my
						plans?"
					"Go right on!" he said heartily.
					"All right." She hung the receiver on its hook and set down the telephone. "But if ever
						there is any interference which seems to come from you, I'll do exactly what I
						said."
					"Oh, come, Mary, forget my bit of gun-play. You ought to know that I was only fooling."
						He was now thoroughly amiable again, as far as smile and manner went. "Just how are you
						going to do it, Mary? "
					"I'm going to do it -- that's all I can definitely say as yet. And now, I have a lot to
						think about -- "
					"And you'd like to have me go. All right, I'll go. But say, Mary, -- you sure have
						nerve!" he exclaimed, with a sincerity that was sincere. "Nerve, and a lot of other
						things. And remember this: I'm counting on putting you across, a little later, in the
						way I just told you about. You're just the woman I could do it with -- big! Big -- you
						understand! Good-bye."
					As the little lawyer went out, Mary took a deep breath. That was one danger, and an
						unexpected danger, that she had narrowly averted.... Her quick, eager mind flashed ahead
						to a picture which  his words had suggested: "Put you
						across -- big!" Perhaps later, if her present plans went awry, she might want to be put
						across in some magnificent way -- who knew? - and Loveman was the one man to do it.
					But for the present, Peter Loveman was to be trusted just so far as he could be
						trusted.
				

				
				

					CHAPTER XVI
					

					
						THE STRINGS OF HUMAN NATURE
					

					LOVEMAN had been gone no more than fifteen minutes, and Mary was
						thinking upon her plans, balancing this prospect against that danger, when her telephone
						began to ring. She took it up, and to her dismay the voice that greeted her over the
						wire was the voice of Jack's father. His first words she did not hear at all -- her
						senses were almost wholly concentrated in dismay that two of the persons from whom she
						had sought seclusion had within a single hour learned of her whereabouts! How soon
						before all would be about her again?
					"How did you learn where I am?" she asked automatically.
					"Why, you called me up awhile ago, and said Mrs. Grayson wanted to speak to me," he
						replied. "When I tried to answer, you had hung up. But Central located the telephone the
						call had come from."
					Mr. Morton went on to ask to see her at once -- anyhow, not later than luncheon. She
						considered whether she should see him again, after her admission of her liaison with
						Jack, after that orchid-smothered invitation to a voyage in tropical waters -- or should
						she evade him by once more running away? But running away would mean the abandonment  of her plans involving Maisie Jones -- and that she could
						not do. Besides, at the best she would only delay the meeting with Mr. Morton; the
						meeting itself was inevitable.
					While her lips replied to him, her mind considered rapidly. Should she see him alone --
						or in public? Only by a solitary meeting could she reduce the ever-present danger of
						accident prematurely revealing her identity to him; but a solitary meeting, in view of
						what he supposed to be her character, might prompt him to make open advances of a sort
						suggested by his perfumed invitation -- which advances she dared neither permit nor too
						bluntly repel. And then she thought of what might be a way out -- the small Japanese
						Room just off one of the large dining-rooms: this would give her the protection of both
						privacy and publicity. She suggested it to Mr. Morton, and he promptly said he would
						reserve the room and would meet her at half-past twelve. "Please remember this," she
						ended, -- "here at the Grantham I am known as Mrs. Gardner."
					She slipped down shortly after twelve, to avoid the danger of recognition by any one in
						the crowd of lunchers who would come in a little later. But as she passed through a
						hallway on the main floor, she glimpsed a square figure behind a newspaper -- Bradley.
						She went on without pause and slipped into the Japanese Room. So Bradley, too, had
						learned of her whereabouts!
					Ten minutes later Mr. Morton entered, looking  as
						sprucely young as fifty can look, smiling admiration in the gray eyes that were more
						accustomed to a gaze of autocratic command. Mary had previously placed herself at the
						table so that she could see into the larger room without being seen, and during the
						preliminaries of their conversation her main faculties were surreptitiously directed
						beyond the hangings. Presently she saw Loveman enter the larger room. Instinctively she
						knew Loveman had followed Mr. Morton here, to keep close watch over what he did and what
						might develop. After her scene that morning with Loveman, she knew he would strike the
						instant he saw she was failing, or thought she was about to fail. Loveman and Bradley --
						her seemingly simple plan certainly was growing complicated!
					And then a little later she saw Clifford enter. Her heart skipped a few beats: so,
						then, he was watching her, as she had expected! What might he intend doing? . . . Well,
						whatever it might be, she would go straight ahead!
					Presently she had to give more heed to Morton, for he was touching upon things that
						were vitally personal. "Let me again applaud the discretion you showed in your affair
						with Jack, Mrs. Gardner," he was saying. "And again let me compliment you on your
						sensible attitude when you saw the affair had to be broken off."
					"Thank you."
					"Pardon my referring to the sordid money side  of
						things," he went on. "I was prepared to meet whatever you had in mind -- but Mr.
						Clifford has reported to me that you would accept no settlement. I do not quite
						understand."
					"I did not enter into the affair with Jack expecting to be bought off," she
						replied.
					He looked at her keenly, but said no more on the subject. "There is one thing that has
						surprised me a bit, though, in so discreet a woman as you are, Mrs. Gardner: that is,
						your coming to the very hotel at which Miss Jones is staying."
					"It is the hotel at which I usually stop."
					"I was merely thinking that your being under the same roof might lead to some
						unexpected happening that would let Miss Jones learn -- you understand. But you are very
						sensible and careful."
					He leaned over the little table. "And now let's talk about you and me," he said softly.
						"What is your answer?"
					"My answer?" she evaded.
					"To my suggestion that we explore a more amiable climate -- together."
					Her back was against the wall. "I'd rather not have to answer."
					"But your mind is made up?"
					She hesitated. "Yes," she admitted. "But I'd rather not speak -- not just now."
					"Why not?"
					"There may develop complications; complications which I can't now explain."



					

					"But at least," he urged, "can't you give me a hint of what your answer will be, if
						complications do not interfere?"
					She thought rapidly. He was pressing her hard from one direction, and outside sat
						Loveman, a danger from another direction -- watching her, ready to expose and destroy
						her at the slightest sign of failure. Of the two she just then feared Loveman the more.
						She had to put Morton off -- she had to have some weapon against Loveman.
					An idea flashed into her brain -- a desperate idea, but she was now playing a desperate
						game.
					"Won't you please give me a hint?" he insisted.
					"Well," she said, with the air of one consenting, "here is a proposition that may sound
						to you absurd -- but then a woman is supposed to be irrational. For my own reasons I
						can't now tell you what my answer is, but I'll write it out in a letter and give it to
						you if you'll promise not to read it until you have my permission. That way you'll
						always have my answer with you. I may telephone or telegraph you, when I 'm ready for
						you to open the letter."
					"I promise," he agreed.
					"Then I'll write it here," she said.
					The waiter brought heavy stationery, and with Mr. Morton's fountain pen she began to
						write. He watched her closely until he was certain she was engrossed in her note, then
						stealthily he possessed himself of her handbag which she had left upon a third chair
						beside the table. This he cautiously  opened, and into it
						he slipped an envelope which he took from his pocket. Then he closed the bag and
						returned it to its place.
					Mary finished her letter, thrust it into an envelope, which she sealed. This she held
						tentatively above the table.
					"On your honor as a gentleman you promise not to open this until I give you the
						word?"
					"Promise? I swear!"
					"And you promise not to try to be -- too friendly until I give you the word?"
					"That comes hard -- but I promise that, too."
					She held out the sealed envelope. He took it, and also caught her hand.
					"Even if I'm not allowed to read, I'm allowed to guess -- and hope," he said softly;
						"and in the mean time, I'm going to call on you now and then -- and for the sake of
						discretion, I'll take my chances and come unannounced." And smiling expectantly he
						slipped her letter into the inner pocket of his coat.
					A little later, when they had parted, she met Uncle George near the elevators. It was
						evident that he, too, had just finished lunching.
					"Mary," he said solemnly, "excuse me for not having failing eyesight, as a man of
						incurable senility should have -- but really I could n't help lamping the would-be
						gazelle you were eating with."
					"What's wrong with my doing that?" she asked defensively.



					

					"Nothing at all, dear -- nothing at all: only just remember that no matter what his
						song is nor how soft he sings it, he's an old goat in a canary's skin."
					"I believe I can manage him," she returned confidently. 
					"I hope so, Mary -- I hope so. But he's descended from one of the first families of
						Sodom and Gomorrah, and he's a wise party, and he knows what he wants and he knows how
						to get it, and he usually gets it, too."
					Uncle George paused a moment, then added: "Excuse my seeing it, dear -- I've got the
						habit of seeing things and can't break it. But did you notice that he put something in
						your bag?"
					"No."
					" Then if you don't believe my old eyes, you might take a look for yourself."
					She opened her bag. There was the envelope Mr. Morton had slipped into it, unsealed and
						fat. Surprised, she drew from the envelope a folded packet of bills and rapidly fingered
						them.
					"Ten one-thousand-dollar bills!" she breathed.
					Uncle George nodded. "Just so. That's how he sings a little love song. But he can sing
						a lot of different sorts of songs, and he's a swell performer at a lot of other acts
						besides singing. That's all, Mary -- except here's hoping you beat him in the end. But,
						though you're clever, I'm not placing any bets on you. Good-bye, dear."
					Up in her apartment Mary considered the matter  of this
						money. Mr. Morton, she perceived, was playing the game as he saw it; and for the
						present, she decided, she must seemingly play the game in the same way. She returned the
						notes into the envelope, and slipped the packet into a drawer of her desk.
					She thought over her situation as a whole for a few minutes. Her original plan
						involving Maisie Jones would have been difficult enough had she been permitted the few
						days on which she had counted in which to work it out uninterrupted, but this prompt
						injection of Loveman, and then of Morton, into her scheme, doubled the number of human
						objects which she must juggle without a slip. The situation was difficult, yes, -- it
						would require the sharpest alertness of all her wits, -- but she could do it!
					Mary composed herself and went in again to see Maisie Jones, on whom she had promised
						to call after she had lunched. While they chatted Mary studied the girl with new
						intentness, dropping in adroit questions which would bring out revealing remarks.
						Instinctively she despised this daughter of plutocracy: a fluffy blonde, who had had
						every good thing in life served to her, unasked for, upon a golden platter, who had
						never once had to think for herself. She deserved just what was being planned for her!
						But despite Mary's scorn -- which was, perhaps, composed in part of that hate which
						human nature feels toward its contemplated victim  -- Mary
						perceived that beneath the girl's fluffy worldliness, she was fundamentally the sort of
						girl who develops into a woman whose life is centered upon her domestic affairs and
						domestic happiness -- who demands and subsists upon loyalty. And Mary now knew enough of
						Jack to know what Jack, with his instability of purpose and affection, would in the
						years to come bring into the life of this girl.
					Again, as in the morning, Mary one by one drew out the other qualities that lay beneath
						Maisie's girlish charm. She was spoiled, selfish, full of temper, vindictive -- and also
						she was proud to the last degree, and she seemed inflexibly a Puritan in mind and
						impulses. It was upon the last two qualities, of pride and inflexible Puritanism, that
						Mary's quick mind based her now swiftly maturing plan.
					Presently Mary, in her rô1e of a member of the smarter New York set, brought her light,
						humorously cynical talk about to some of the men she knew -- to rumors of their none too
						circumspect amours; and then, quite casually, she mentioned Jack
						Morton.
					"You know Jack Morton?" Maisie Jones asked.
					" I've met him -- yes."
					There was a quick flash of jealousy in the blue eyes. "I happen to know him, too, -- a
						little. Is he -- is he like those other men you spoke of?"
					"You mean in regard to women?"
					"Yes."
					Mary appeared not to be aware that this topic  had a
						personal interest for Maisie Jones. Also she had swiftly calculated how she must handle
						this particular business. If she told Maisie outright some scandal concerning Jack,
						Maisie in her pride might refuse to believe her, and the matter would end right there.
						Maisie had to be so led that she believed herself to be leading, and whatever she
						learned she must apparently find out for herself.
					"Miss Jones, these men are all alike," Mary answered lightly, "and they say Jack Morton
						is the most alike of them all."
					"But -- but I'd heard that Jack Morton was very steady just now."
					"That's the little way men have." Mary gave the soft, cynical laugh of the wise young
						woman of fashion. "The more that men have to hide, the more steady and proper do they
						try to appear."
					"You mean that he is -- that there is a woman --" Maisie Jones could get no
						further.
					"So they say. And I'm told he's the same as engaged to a nice girl in Chicago -- poor
						thing!"
					There was a brief silence. Mary discreetly avoided looking in Maisie's direction.
					"Are you -- are you certain about that other woman?" asked a strained voice.
					"I've seen him about with her several afternoons."
					"Afternoons? I thought he was busy till five o'clock."
					"That's a man's oldest pretense, being busy all day."


					
					Again a brief silence; then again the strained voice, trying to be steady and
						indifferent:
					"What is she like?"
					"I tell you what," said Mary casually, "if you really want to know, I think I can show
						her to you -- with him. I've noticed them having tea together at the Biltmore several
						times recently. If you like we can go there for tea this afternoon -- it will do us both
						good to get out -- and in the big crowd there at tea-time we'll never be noticed."
					"All right," said Maisie.
					"Then suppose you call for me at my apartment at four."
					It was so agreed. Mary said that she might be a few minutes late because of an errand
						she had to do, but that she would leave her outer door unlatched so that Maisie might
						come right in and wait for her, and she told Maisie she need not ring, as her bell was
						out of order.
					Mary went away with a sense that her delicately devised plan was now under full way;
						and she saw, as though the event were now concluded, just how Maisie Jones would react
						when she, Mary, pulled the strings of human nature. On learning what she believed to be
						the truth, Maisie's Puritanic soul would be so horrified that she could have nothing
						more to do with Jack; and further, her pride would not permit her ever to let the public
						know that she had been neglected for another woman, or possibly even jilted. Her pride
						would make her keep Jack's  secret for her own
						self-protection, and make her forestall the possible appearance of being jilted by
						herself doing the jilting first.
					All that now remained, before Mary should be safe again -- barring interference from
						Clifford -- was for human nature to react according to human promptings.

				

				
				

					CHAPTER XVII
					

					
						THE OTHER WOMAN
					

					MARY sat on the bed in the bedroom of her suite, trying to moderate
						Jack, who had furtively stolen up five minutes before in response to her telephone
						summons. The stage was set for the last act of her carefully planned version of the
						eternal triangle, -- the time for the curtain to rise was near at hand, -- and as she
						talked to Jack she kept her ears alert for any sound that might come through the open
						door connecting with her sitting-room. This would denote the entrance of Maisie, and was
						to be the cue for the action to begin on which she had staked everything. To prevent any
						misadventure to her plan through the automatic habit of ringing bells, Mary had
						disconnected the wire.
					She had not told Jack of the rô1e that he was to play, for she had not dared to trust
						him with the knowledge that he was playing a rô1e -- he might balk; so she had the added
						difficulty of so managing him that he would play a part without even guessing that he
						was play-acting.
					"I can't stand this situation any longer, Mary," Jack fumed. "I want to come out with
						it all! Think of me having to sneak up here to see my own wife! And think of the other
						angle of my damned situation  -- being fairly shoved to
						the brink of the altar with another woman. I can't stall that thing off for more than a
						day or so longer. Then I'll simply have to come out with the truth -- our being
						married."
					"Jack," she said sharply, for there had been dynamite in his temperish speech, "you
						must remember what you just agreed upon -- that even when we're alone you are not to
						refer to my being your wife, or to our marriage. You are not to speak of those things
						again until I give my consent."
					"All right, Mary," he groaned.
					"For the present we've got to keep up the pretense that our relationship is what we
						admitted before your father. You promise that, too?"
					"All right -- I promise. But this is certainly hell!" And he looked his misery; for his
						habit of life had accustomed Jack Morton neither to suffering nor self-restraint. "But
						say, I don't see that you're working out anything with Maisie Jones -- at least I've
						felt no relief."
					"You will if you keep your promises."
					She looked at the little gold clock -- Jack's gift -- on her dressing-table; the hour
						was exactly four. She must now, with her utmost carefulness, steer the dialogue without
						Jack's guessing that it was being steered.
					"What we're doing is for the best, Jack, -- you must trust me as to that," she said.
						"But, of course, things were a lot more comfortable when we were at the Mordona."



					

					"Why, our flat there was heaven!" he exclaimed. She had him talking on the right tack
						now, and he held the course enthusiastically. Her ears reached out for other sounds than
						his words; and after a minute or two she heard a slight noise in her sitting-room -- and
						she knew that Maisie Jones had entered; and she knew -- in fact she was visualizing it
						-- that Maisie had heard Jack's voice, that Maisie had suddenly paused and was
						breathlessly listening.
					"It was pleasant, Jack," she said distinctly -- her mind's eye seeing the effect on the
						tense figure in the next room.
					"I'll never forget that little flat, sweetheart," he enthused. "That week we spent at
						the Mordona -- say, that was living!"
					"And as Mr. and Mrs. Grayson --"
					"I wish we were back there now, Mary!" And he seized her hands.
					"Perhaps when you get things straightened out -- and suspicion quieted down --"
					"You mean about Maisie Jones?"
					"Yes. Perhaps then we can go back to our flat in the Mordona."
					"No. Not back there. The Mordona won't be safe for us until -- you know! But this old
						town is full of other nice little flats -- where we'll be quiet and cozy and nobody'll
						ever find us out. And we'll do it the minute you say the word!"
					"And I'll say the word just as soon as it is safe.  You
						must go, Jack, in just a minute, for I'm expecting some one."
					Enough had been said; her little scene was now complete; the listening figure in the
						next room could put but one interpretation upon what she had heard. Mary let Jack hold
						her hands and his ardent gaze she returned with a seemingly equal ardor. But her
						faculties were really all in the next room, witnessing what was happening there. She
						visioned the girl as standing transfixed at this evidence of Jack's faithlessness; and
						then in pain, in a fury of pride; stealing silently away -- later to say, if by any
						chance she ever again spoke to Mary, that she had changed her mind and had decided not
						to come that afternoon.
					That stricken, creeping figure was what Mary visioned; that was the way she had
						calculated human nature would react. What she actually saw, the next moment, was Maisie
						Jones standing in the doorway, her hands clenched so that her white gloves had burst at
						a dozen seams, her figure trembling, her blue eyes blazing fury.
					"I've heard everything!" she gasped. "Oh, you --"
					"Maisie!" breathed Jack, staring.
					"Oh, you sneaks -- you liars -- you beasts -- both of you!"
					"Maisie -- you don't understand -- listen --"
					"Don't come near me!" She backed through the door. "Don't come near me!"
					He followed her in consternation, Mary behind  him, until
						all three were in the sitting-room. "Listen, Maisie, for God's sake!" he cried. "You
						don't understand --"
					"Oh, yes, I do understand!" the furious girl flamed at him. "After what I heard, I
						could n't help understanding! You're simply a low, vicious, lying beast of a man, Jack
						Morton, -- you with your pretense of having steadied down and become a worker! And this
						woman you've been living with -- your -- your --"
					He had seized her wrist. "Maisie," he said, "say what you like about me. But don't say
						a word against Mary -- for Mary --"
					"Jack, stop!" Mary cried sharply, thrusting herself between the pair. She was dismayed
						by this unexpected development of her carefully constructed triangle -- but if she could
						end this scene quietly the situation might somehow be saved. "Stop, Jack!" she added
						warningly. "What she says won't hurt me."
					Maisie, her control now all gone, turned her fury and scorn full upon Mary. "You
						adventuress! You common street woman! You cheap seller of yourself! You -- you --"
					Jack gasped at her enraged words, then broke through Mary's intervention.
					"You shall not say such things about Mary!" he cried in an almost equal rage. "Mary is
						my wife!"
					"Your wife!" repeated Maisie.
					"Yes, my wife!"



					

					"Jack, be still!" cried Mary. "Miss Jones, he's lying to protect me. I don't like the
						words you used about me; but in substance they're the truth."
					"They're not the truth, Maisie!" Jack, for that moment, had passed beyond Mary's
						control. "She's my wife, and nobody can say such things about her! She's my wife, and I
						can prove it! " Swiftly he took a wallet from an inside pocket of his vest, drew a slip
						of paper from it, and thrust it into Maisie's hands. "There -- look at that!"
					There was neither time nor chance for Mary to interfere. Maisie glanced at the slip of
						paper. Her volcanic wrath suddenly subsided ; her face blanched. Then mechanically her
						lips repeated the script in the printed form she held: "John Harrison Morton and Mary
						Russell Regan."
					She looked up; she was in a daze. "Your marriage certificate, Jack," she said in her
						mechanical tone. And then questioningly: "But Mary Regan?"
					"That's Mary's real name -- she just borrowed the name of Mrs. Gardner," Jack
						explained. "You see we were married secretly because Mary thought father would object to
						her; and also because -- don't take this in a wrong way, Maisie -- because of what
						father wanted you and me to do."
					"I see," said the heavy lips. She turned to Mary, "But those things I just overheard?
						And your pretending not to be Jack's wife?"
					Mary's plan had gone so far from its calculated course, and so swiftly, that upon the
						instant she saw  no better way than to tell the truth --
						even if she should not tell it all.
					"Miss Jones, I planned for you to overhear, and believe, what passed between Jack and
						me -- though Jack had no knowledge of what I was doing. I thought that if you discovered
						that Jack was in love with another woman -- and had been living with her -- your
						insulted pride would cause you to break with Jack and give no reason."
					"Yes -- go on," breathed the girl.
					"You see, Jack was in the worst sort of a predicament. He was married to me; he was
						dependent as to his future upon his father; and his father was trying to press him into
						an immediate marriage with you. It was a matter of days. Had he told the truth or had he
						for no explained reason broken with you -- either would have ended him with his father.
						There was only one way out of the situation that would not ruin Jack, and that was for
						you to be the one to break it off. To play upon you so that you would do that, that's
						what I've been trying to do."
					"I see." The girl, grayish pale, regarded Mary in dazed wonderment. "But why did you,
						just a moment ago, try to make me believe that you were Jack's -- his -- his
						mistress?"
					"To keep Jack's father from learning the truth. Don't you see it? If you should tell
						his father that you had learned that Jack had a mistress, it would not injure Jack's
						prospects nearly so much as if you told him that Jack had a wife."



					

					"And, Maisie," Jack cut in, "if I have steadied down, it's because Mary made me! I want
						you to know that!"
					The blue-eyed girl, standing very still, and breathing very tensely, made no response,
						but kept her gaze fastened upon Mary. Mary tried to guess what was passing in the mind
						of this girl -- young, willful, of proven jealousy and temper, who, holding that
						marriage certificate in her hand, held also Mary's fate. What was that girl going to
						do?
					A minute or more passed, all three of them motionless and silent -- a space Mary was
						never to forget. Then the tableau was sharply broken by a soft knocking at the door of
						the suite. The three turned about, just as the unlatched door swung cautiously open and
						into the room stepped the elder Morton, his masterful face bouqueted with a smile. He
						stopped short and the smile was plucked away.
					No one of the four moved or spoke; then followed tense silence which, though but a
						moment long, seemed an epoch to three of the group -- each of whom sensed a different
						charge of human dynamite, its fuse sputtering, in this scene.... The elder Morton, here
						on such other business, looked penetratingly at the unexpected trio: did the presence of
						the three mean that Maisie had learned the truth about Jack and Mrs. Gardner? -- which
						would disrupt one of his dearest and most patient plans. And also did they suspect why
						he was here? . . . As for Jack, he was merely stricken dumb and powerless with a  sense of unavertable disaster -- the axe was already
						falling. . . . And Mary, her will nullified for the moment by a sense of futility,
						breathlessly watched the grayish face of Maisie Jones, who, in the hand that now held
						the crumpled marriage certificate, also held the swift finale to all
						her planning; each second she expected the outraged, jealous, and vindictive girl to
						speak, or hand the crumpled paper to the gray-templed man beside the door.
					It was the elder Morton, trained by his worldly experience to keep on playing his part
						whatever the circumstances, who ended this hour-long moment.
					"I just started to call on you, Maisie," he explained evenly, pleasantly, "and at your
						door I learned from a maid that you were with Mrs. Gardner. I pressed the bell-button,
						then knocked, but as there was no answer, and as the door was open, I ventured in -- and
						here I find the three of you."
					Mary felt the uselessness of further effort, since the other girl held her fate in her
						tightly clenched hand; but her inborn quality of keeping on mechanically forced words
						from her lips -- though as she spoke them she recognized her words as a lame
						explanation. "Miss Jones was going out with your son, and as she was passing she stopped
						in for a moment."
					Mr. Morton looked keenly at Maisie, and waited; and Mary looked at her, in suspense yet
						sure of the end, and waited.
					Then the gray-faced girl spoke for the first time  -- and
						her fingers twitched about the document she held.
					"Yes, Jack and I were passing, and just dropped in."
					Mary maintained her outward composure, but inwardly she started. So! -- Maisie Jones
						was holding back her weapon, waiting her chosen time to strike.
					Morton seemed to accept Maisie's words; but before another word could be spoken, while
						all the dangerous human elements of the situation were in suspense, Mary saw a new
						figure press open the unlatched door -- Peter Loveman. In a flash she understood the
						little lawyer's presence: that dread which had caused him to be forever hovering about
						her and Mr. Morton had made him follow Morton here -- that he might be beforehand and
						save himself, in case of mishap to her impossible plans.
					Her mind, working with incredible speed, had another instantaneous fear. Every instant
						she expected Clifford to enter and add to the complications swarming upon her.
					Loveman's round, keen eyes swiftly took in the situation. To him this coming together
						of the four of them face to face, of Mr. Morton, Jack, Mary, and the girl Jack had been
						directed to marry, could have but one meaning, one outcome. His speech followed his
						conclusion so promptly that there was barely a moment between his entrance and his first
						word.



					

					"Pardon my coming up here, Mr. Morton," he said rapidly, stepping forward, "but the
						matter is so immensely important as to abrogate formalities. I have just made a
						discovery -- "
					"Mr. Morton," Mary interrupted sharply, pressing between the two men. She knew that yet
						a new destruction was in Loveman's next eager words; and her instinct to keep on
						fighting to the very end instantly controlled her. "Mr. Morton -- before you hear him,
						read my letter!"
					"Your letter?" queried Mr. Morton, taken aback by the suddenness of all this.
					"The letter I gave you in the Japanese Room. The letter I told you to hold until I gave
						you permission to read it. You have it with you?"
					"Yes, here it is, Mrs. Gardner." He drew an envelope from an inner coat pocket.
					"Mr. Morton, I've just discovered --"
					"Read my letter first," Mary again broke sharply in upon Loveman. "The time has come
						that I spoke of, Mr. Morton, -- the time when you have my permission to read my letter.
						It tells you all that Mr. Loveman has discovered and more!"
					"Mr. Morton -- "
					"You wait, Loveman. Mrs. Gardner first."
					Mr. Morton ran a forefinger beneath the embossed flap. The little lawyer was
						yellowish-pale, there was a spasmodic quivering of the soft folds beneath which his
						Adam's apple was throbbing. Mary saw Loveman's condition, and with a seemingly  involuntary action, laid a hand upon the finger of Mr.
						Morton's that was sheathed in the envelope.
					"That letter contains everything, Mr. Morton. I was n't quite ready for you to know it.
						I'd rather you did not know it yet -- but Mr. Loveman has forced me." She turned to
						Loveman, and her next words had in them a hidden meaning for him, and another meaning
						for Mr. Morton. "Since you are determined, Mr. Loveman, that Mr. Morton must know it, I
						prefer that he learn it from me -- and that he learn everything."
					In her steady glance, the sallow little man read reckless defiance -- and beneath her
						words he read the offer of a bargain. And he had a swift sense, vague as yet, that the
						situation might not be as desperate as he had at first believed.
					"If Mrs. Gardner really prefers that nothing be said about it just now --"
					"I do prefer," she interrupted him.
					"Why, then, naturally, I'll not say anything at present -- provided Mrs. Gardner agrees
						to say nothing."
					"I agree."
					"And the letter?" softly suggested Loveman.
					"With your permission, Mr. Morton," and Mary deftly slipped the envelope out of his
						hands.
					"But, see here, the letter was mine!" Morton exclaimed. "Where do I come in?"
					"It is my confession, is it not? -- and has n't a woman the right to choose the time
						when she makes  it? You shall know everything -- when
						the right time comes."
					She turned to the little lawyer. "I believe that is all, Mr. Loveman."
					"But the letter?" he prompted.
					She understood. "You definitely promise?"
					"Yes."
					"Very well, then" -- and slowly, all eyes upon her, Mary tore the sealed letter up and
						dropped the pieces into the waste-basket.
					There was a moment's pause. Each of the four had his own belief as to the revelation in
						that letter she had so calmly torn to fragments. As for Mary, she was outwardly composed
						enough; she believed that the crisis with Loveman was safely passed -- perhaps; but
						every second she was poignantly aware of the danger represented by that motionless girl
						who still held the marriage certificate in her hand. Mary could not guess what that
						emotional, jealous, pampered girl would do, nor at what instant she would do it.
					Mr. Morton turned from Mary to Jack and Maisie. "Run along, children," he said
						pleasantly, "and do whatever it was you were planning to do. I may pick you up later
						somewhere."
					Almost mechanically the girl walked out. With a quick glance of fear at Mary, Jack went
						after her -- and Mary followed her with her eyes, wondering.
				

				
				

					CHAPTER XVIII
					

					
						HOW MAISIE JONES REACTED
					

					MR. MORTON turned upon Mary the instant Jack and
						Maisie Jones were out.
					"Mrs. Gardner, how much did Miss Jones learn or guess about you and Jack?" he demanded
						sharply.
					"You saw the scene, you can draw your own conclusions," replied Mary. "If you wish to
						know definitely, I suggest you ask Miss Jones."
					"U'm. She did n't seem to know just what to make of the scene -- but I don't believe
						she suspected anything. You carried it all off mighty well, -- Mrs. Gardner, -- mighty
						well; in fact you saved the situation. Loveman" -- with sharp rebuke -- "you damned near
						spilled everything, trying to blurt out your discovery before Miss Jones!"
					"That's once I did n't stop to think," apologized Loveman.
					"Then suppose you excuse yourself and do some thinking outside. I want a few words with
						Miss Gilmore -- beg pardon, Mrs. Gardner I should say."
					"But -- first I'd like a few words with Mr. Loveman," man," said Mary, -- "alone."
					She stepped out into the corridor ahead of Loveman, walked a few unsteady paces, and
						turned a corner. This corridor was empty. She halted.



					
					"What did you want to see me about, Mary?" the little lawyer asked nervously.
					"I did n't want to see you -- I wanted to get out of that room -- after what I've been
						through."
					She leaned dizzily against the wall, and breathed like a runner at the end of a race.
						The situation she had just been through had, indeed, taxed her full strength; but her
						mind went on to dangers yet ahead. That girl with the marriage certificate in her hand
						-- she had held back because she was waiting a better time, and a more effective method,
						to strike. And when she struck, she would strike hard -- no doubt of that! Mary wondered
						in what form of cold fury the girl's natural feminine vindictiveness would express
						itself.
					She opened her eyes. Peter Loveman was still waiting beside her.
					"I guess I did n't quite get the situation when I broke in on that scene awhile ago,"
						the little man began apologetically. "I thought it was all up with you -- and I thought
						I might as well save myself if I could."
					"I know," she said wearily. And then vigor came into her voice and bearing. "But don't
						forget this, Peter Loveman, -- if you ever try to cross me again, I'11 finish you off
						with Mr. Morton just as I said -- even though I finish myself, too!"
					"That's never going to happen, Mary," the little man said propitiatingly. "And
						remember, Mary, what I said to you this morning -- that if this  affair gives any sign of going wrong, just privately leave your end of it
						with me -- and after that let me manage you -- and there's nothing I can't do with you!
						Nothing!"
					She regarded him absently -- although the vision his words had created registered
						itself in her subconscious mind as something that might come to pass in the future.
						Without answering him, she turned away and reentered her apartment. Beside her door she
						came to a sudden pause. Bending over her desk was Mr. Morton intently working over
						something which she could not identify. But the next moment she knew. Mr. Morton had
						recovered from the waste-basket her torn letter and was fitting its fragments
						together.
					Instantly she was across the room, and had caught his arm. "Mr. Morton, you must n't do
						that!" she exclaimed, reaching swiftly for the letter.
					He easily warded off her clutching hand. She struggled to possess the fragments. But he
						was too powerful a man for her to contest with on equal physical terms, and she dared
						not cry out -- so after a moment she gave up.
					"Really, Miss Gilmore, you know, you can't trust a man's curiosity too far," he said
						coolly, though pleasantly; and holding her two wrists in a powerful, yet gentle grip, he
						read the torn letter through.
					He looked up. His face was without expression.
					"And so, Miss Gilmore -- this is your confession?"
					She nodded.



					
					


						 "REALLY, MISS GILMORE, YOU KNOW, YOU> CAN'T TRUST A MAN'S
							CURIOSITY TOO FAR" 

					


					

					

					"And also your answer to my suggestion about our little cruise?"
					Again she nodded.
					"So!" He turned back to the ragged mosaic of heavy note-paper, and slowly he read
						aloud: -- 
					"'I can no longer keep my secret from you. I am really a married woman. Further, my
						husband is very jealous. He may be back any time. I must be most discreet.'"
					Morton raised his gray eyes to her; and then suddenly his strong, worldly face softened
						into a smile.
					"My dear, what a little fool you are! This is nothing to make such a fuss about. Your
						being married does n't necessarily make the slightest difference to me -- and I'm sure
						the Caribbean winds will be just as soothing -- and that the moonlight will be just as
						soft. The yacht will be ready next Thursday."
					He tried to slip an arm about her. But she evaded him, and spoke quietly.
					"But my husband is now in New York!"
					"Oh, the devil!" And then he smiled again. "But I'm sure a woman of your quickness of
						mind can invent an excuse that will take care of your husband. You can trust that my end
						will all be managed quietly."
					Again she avoided an attempted embrace. "But he is now in this hotel -- and he knows
						I'm here -- and he's so jealous --"
					"The devil!" This time he did not smile. "That  is some
						complication! You certainly do have to be discreet!" He thought quickly. "You'd better
						move from this hotel to some place where you will not be so easily under his eye.
						Anyhow, I was going to suggest your moving on account of Miss Jones. Being this close to
						her, she might any time stumble on to -- you know, between you and Jack."
					"I'm going to move to-night," she agreed, her mind all on how she was going to rid
						herself of him, and yet not offend him.
					"Good! Now, as token and seal of our understanding --" He bent toward her with pursed
						lips.
					She checked him with the thrust of a stiffened arm. "Not now!"
					"Some day, then? And soon?"
					She eyed him steadily. "Sometime, perhaps -- if when that time comes you still want
						to."
					He had no suspicion of what was in her mind. He smiled.
					"Oh, I shall want to! But don't set the time too far --"
					The telephone on her desk began to ring. In relief at the interruption she seized it --
						but the relief was gone as she heard the voice that came over the wire.
					"Yes, I'm alone," she replied into the mouthpiece. "You may see me right away."
					"Who was that?" asked Morton as she hung up.
					"My husband."
					"My cue for a quick exit! Remember, my  dear" -- he
						seized both her hands -- "we're going to have that little cruise just the same. I'll
						give orders --"
					"You must hurry," she interrupted. While he had been speaking, she had reached quickly
						behind her back, opened a little drawer and thrust into it her hand. "You must hurry,"
						she repeated, and urgently pressed her hands against him -- and while doing so she
						slipped the envelope containing the ten one-thousand-dollar bills into the inner pocket
						of his coat. "Go, please! Good-bye!"
					The next instant he was gone. Mary sank into a chair beside her window. She had won
						thus far through her wit and her will; but wit and will would serve her no further; she
						was spent -- utterly spent. What was her culminating scene, the scene that would end
						her, lay just before her, and for it she had neither strength nor subterfuge nor
						courage. She had fought, through sheer force of habit, to the end -- and at the end,
						which was only a moment ahead, she had lost. So she leaned back in her chair. limp, her
						eyes closed. . . .
					But spent as she was she was sufficiently alive for her curiosity to respond to a
						matter that again recurred to her. Clifford had known of her whereabouts, possibly of
						her purpose. Why had he not interfered? ... Why? ...
					A minute or two passed; then she became aware that some one had entered and had crossed
						to her side. She slowly opened her eyes, and wearily arose,  and regarded Maisie Jones dully, indifferent to denunciation or threats or furious
						acts.
					"You telephoned you wished to see me," she said.
					Maisie, very rigid and still gray of face, did not at once speak.
					"Well?" prompted Mary.
					"I came to tell you what I intend to do," said the other, and stopped.
					"Go on. I know just about how you feel, and I guess I'd do about the same. I'm
						prepared, so don't try to break it easy to me."
					"Of course," said the girl, -- and there was a catch in her voice, -- "of course you
						know that I love Jack."
					"Yes, I know," said Mary.
					"I love him so well," continued the girl, "that I don't want to do anything to hurt
						him." .She swallowed, then drove herself on, her blue eyes gazing straight into Mary's
						dark ones. "I'm going to be honest. I'm not doing this because it's easy; nor because I
						like you -- I can't do that yet. I'm doing it for -- for Jack."
					"Doing what?" breathed Mary, suddenly bewildered. 
					"I'm doing it because I see you can be more to Jack than I can ever be," the girl went
						on. "You're the sort of woman that can make a man -- you proved that when you made Jack
						steady down and go to work. I could never have done that for Jack."
					Mary could only stare.



					

					"And I think it was big of you," the voice went on, now a choked and awed voice, "to
						try to save Jack by sacrificing yourself -- by being willing to acknowledge yourself his
						-- his mistress, and accept that humiliation, in order to protect him. I could never
						have done that either."
					Still Mary, sure manager of her destiny, could not speak -- could only stare at the
						white face which had begun to work.
					"I shall return to Chicago to-night," the girl went on. "In a week or two I shall make
						my aunt write Jack's father, giving no reason, stating I no longer care for Jack and
						wish everything broken off. And I shall write, confirming this. That will put me out of
						the way -- I'll no longer be a source of danger to you and Jack. I guess that's all.
						Good-bye."
					She thrust the marriage certificate into Mary's hands and turned and started rapidly
						out. Then she abruptly turned and came back; and she gripped Mary's hands, and her blue
						eyes were flooding.
					"I can't like you -- yet. But I'm not going to let myself be mean about this," she said
						huskily, in awe and humility. "I wish I were as fine as you are! You are wonderful --
						wonderful!"
					Suddenly she leaned forward and kissed Mary's cheek; and then, this time, she was
						gone.
					Mary gazed after her with wide eyes, then sank limply into a chair. She had won -- for
						the time being; but that she had won did not at this moment even touch her thoughts; nor
						just then was her mind  trying to justify her by saying
						that Maisie, as now she saw her, was too good for Jack, and that her own action,
						whatever its motives, had saved Maisie from a life of certain unhappiness. Just then she
						was dazed by the uncalculated twist of the girl's action; unsuspected, unanalyzable
						things were tumultuously stirring, quickened into life by that swift, tear-wet kiss
						which still thrilled her cheek -- by the fervid declaration that she was fine and
						wonderful. That girl, tears in her eyes, had called her fine and wonderful! . . .
					She seemed, with all those sudden strange things surging within her, to be sitting
						there a woman un- known to herself. And then out of this chaos, there rose a clear-cut,
						definite sentence, that remained fixed before her mind - a sentence of Clifford's,
						spoken with impersonal grimness: "There is a big woman in you - but if you are to be
						changed, only Life can do it." ... Was this what it meant, that chaos within her? After
						all, had Clifford been right? Was Life doing something to her?
					Bewildered, breathless, almost fearfully, she sat regarding this strange, unknown woman
						stirring within herself .... 
				
				
				

					CHAPTER XIX
					

					
						MARY THINKS THINGS OUT
					



					MARY awoke with a start to certain practical and immediate dangers
						of her situation. Mr. Morton knew she was here at the Grantham, and so did Peter
						Loveman; whatever she might do in the end, she had a desire to avoid both of these men
						for the present -- at least until she had determined upon her course. There was but one
						way to escape them, and that was to disappear from the Grantham before either of the
						pair had time to return upon their different enterprises.
					Within an hour she and her baggage were at another hotel. Within a second hour she was
						being shown about by a representative of a renting agency. That same evening she was
						installed in a little furnished apartment in the Nineties just west of Central Park. The
						better to protect her privacy she decided she would do her own housework and would go
						out rarely except in the evening.
					Here her mind began once more to review her situation -- as it was to keep on doing for
						many a long day to come. She had won, by an unbelievable twist of human nature. Yet she
						had not won; she was, as she now perceived, only at the beginning of an enterprise that
						was hourly becoming more complex  and difficult -- and
						that was also leading into what for her were undiscovered and uncomfortable areas of the
						human soul.
					To be sure, for the immediate present at least, she had apparently averted the danger
						of the discovery of her secret marriage to Jack Morton. But the danger of that discovery
						would keep on recurring -- at least until she had finally won out. And there was the
						ever-present danger that her husband, and her husband's father, might somehow learn who
						Mary Regan was and had been. And there was the elder Morton, eager in his amorous suit.
						And there was Peter Loveman, who might any time, to serve his own ends, proceed swiftly
						upon some course that would mean disaster for her.
					And then, there were those queer feelings which had been stirring in her since Maisie
						Jones, a choke in her voice, had called her fine! -- wonderful! -- and since Maisie,
						loving Jack, had declared Mary had proved that she would make far the better wife for
						Jack. Mary did not understand these strange emotions. She did not like them, and she
						tried to force them out of her being. But despite this effort there were fear-stricken
						moments when, with all her dangers, she felt that she could not even count upon
						herself.
					The next morning she called up Jack, telling him where she was. He could telephone her
						as often as he liked, she told him, if he would be careful to speak only when he was
						alone. But she forbade  him coming to see her; that would
						be unsafe, as he might be followed. Jack protested against this order, but she was firm,
						and at length he gave his promise.
					As the days passed, days when she had no company except her own thoughts and Jack's
						telephone messages, she reasoned herself out of the influence of those strange feelings
						begotten by the behavior and the words of Maisie Jones (at least she believed she did),
						and she reached a clearer conception of herself (or believed she did) and of what must
						be her future procedure. And the way she saw herself, her plans, her motives, was
						anything but unfavorable. She was just like most other women. She wanted position, yes
						-- she wanted money, yes; and she was getting them in exactly the same way that the most
						proper and honored women were winning them, by playing her cards as a woman. As for what
						she was hiding -- well, was n't all the world hiding something? She was merely doing
						what all were doing.
					She came to see herself -- despite the methods by which she would attain her end -- as
						making a figure as a wife that Jack would be proud of before the world. As Jack's wife
						she was going to give him her best. No man's wife was going to be better-gowned or of
						more distinguished appearance, and no wife could do more than she, with the will and the
						brains which she knew she had, to hold her husband up to the standards expected of a man
						of large affairs. Later, after she had made Jack into a real  man, and through that service had somehow managed to get Jack's father
						reconciled, and after she had thoroughly established herself with them and as a
						noteworthy figure in their circle -- later she would tell them just who she was and what
						she had been, and by that time Mr. Morton would recognize that she was the one woman in
						the world who could have brought, and could still hold, Jack to such a position of
						worldly success.
					Thus she thought, as the lonely days went by. But as more and more she saw Jack as the
						foundation of her plan, so more and more did she see him in another possible aspect.
						This second possibility grew to be her chief concern.
					All this while her mind had been reverting again and again to Clifford. After a time
						Clifford and her dominating concern began to be linked together. At length there came a
						day when, obeying an impulse, she called Clifford up.
					Within an hour she was opening her door to him. Silently she led the way across the
						dingy, chintz-furnished sitting-room, and with a rather stiff formality the pair seated
						themselves.
					"You sent for me," Clifford began, quietly enough.
					"Yes. I want you to help me."
					"Would you mind explaining?"
					Already she had taken on that cool, defiant, challenging manner which seemed
						instinctive with her in all her dealings with him. "You helped get me  into my marriage with Jack Morton. You said that experience
						was the only thing which could make me over -- and that this marriage might prove to be
						the best possible experience by which Life could change me. Remember that?"
					"I did say something to that effect," he replied quietly, watching her and still
						wondering.
					"Well, I am not going to be changed; I have told you that. But I have accepted your
						challenge, and I'll play the thing through to the finish. But you are partly responsible
						for my position. That's why I have the right to ask you to help me."
					He stared. Only one so essentially defiant in spirit, so audaciously self-confident,
						could be saying such things so quietly.
					"You want me to lose out," she went on, "but even so, I know you'll help me if you
						promise to do so. I'll admit that there is no other person I can call on who can really
						help me."
					"Help you? How?"
					"With Jack."
					He was accustomed to her calm audacity.. But none the less he was for the moment taken
						aback by her request -- that he, a rejected suitor, should be so coolly called in to
						assist with the husband.
					He recovered his speech. "Before I answer that, perhaps you will tell me
						something."
					"What?"
					"Something that has a bearing upon your plan with Jack. Excuse my curiosity -- but
						perhaps you  will tell me just what was the outcome of
						your affair with Maisie Jones?"
					She was no less curious than he in regard to one point in that experience -- why he had
						refrained from action at the Grantham. She had been wondering about this, over and over,
						all these days.
					"You know about that?" Her words were as much an affirmation as a question.
					"I have had to know about it," he said. "I knew of Jack's engagement and its pressing
						character, and when you went to the Grantham and took the suite next to Miss Jones, I
						surmised, with the help of a few facts, the general nature of your purpose there."
					"Then if you knew, why did n't you interfere?"
					"When I surmised what your plan was, I felt it was no affair of mine. I was close at
						hand, but I kept myself in the background. I felt that it was your game, for you to play
						out alone."
					She drew a deep breath. So that was his reason! -- he had given her her leash, he was
						letting her run free. Though watching her, he was, as he had said before, leaving it to
						experience to make of her what it would.
					She recalled his initial inquiry. "The affair ended," she said briefly, "by my being
						forced to tell Maisie Jones, in confidence, that I was secretly married to Jack."
					"And Maisie Jones? I know she loved Jack."
					"She promised not to tell, or interfere."
					"Is that all? And if so, why?"



					

					"She seemed to think -- I did not try to deceive her; she deceived herself -- she
						seemed to think I would make Jack a better wife than she would. And she said that, so
						Jack would n't get into trouble with his father about the engagement, she would have a
						letter written to Mr. Morton breaking the engagement off because she did not love
						Jack."
					"Is that all?"
					She met his gaze with composure, showing nothing of the strange and persisting emotion
						Maisie Jones had awakened in her. "That is all."
					"Thank you." He did not pursue his inquiry, though his eyes regarded her keenly. "To
						come back to your request that I help you with Jack. Whether I help you depends upon
						what you intend doing. First, how do you happen to be here?"
					Her answer was prompt and direct. "After all that has happened, it seemed safest and
						wisest for me to disappear. Too many persons were becoming mixed up in my affairs -- I
						wanted to be free from them."
					"How about Jack? Is he also in the dark as to where you are?"
					"Jack knows. But I do not dare see him."
					"And these are the only reasons you disappeared so suddenly from the Grantham?"
					"The only reasons," she returned steadily. But consciously or unconsciously Mary here
						withheld part of the truth. There was something else: the unadmitted influence which the
						action of Maisie Jones had had upon her.


					

					"Next, if I am to help you," continued Clifford, "what are your general plans for the
						future? You don't mind telling?"
					"I don't mind telling you everything." And she went on to tell him those things which
						she had thought out more definitely during her solitary days. "My general plans are what
						they have been since I married. My main purpose at present is to keep Jack going
						straight -- until through my influence he shall have become established as a responsible
						business man; this I expect to be an achievement for which I shall secure acknowledgment
						and which will win Mr. Morton's favor. And then, a little later, after I have
						established myself with them, and have been openly before the public as Jack's wife, I
						shall tell them just who I am and what I have done."
					"And having done that, what do you think will happen?"
					"I shall have proved to them that I am the one person who can hold Jack to the job of
						being a man; and I shall have proved to them that, despite my being Mary Regan, I can
						make a figure as a woman that Jack and his father will be proud of before the world.
						That is my plan."
					The calculating worldliness of her frank scheme was amazing. Here was the strangest
						part of their recent relationship -- she had made it a point always to show him her most
						worldly side.
					"I see," said Clifford. "But there are a few difficulties.  How about the older Morton and his urgent invitation to a cruise for two passengers
						among the West Indies?"
					"So long as I can keep in hiding, that's not a pressing problem. And if somehow he
						learns where I am, I shall be evasive; I can manage that."
					"And Peter Loveman, if he finds you are here?"
					"I can handle Peter Loveman," she replied confidently; and then added: "Not long ago he
						wanted me to give up my plan concerning Jack. In fact he threatened me."
					"Why?" Clifford asked quickly.
					"He said I could not possibly succeed. Also there was something else he wanted me to
						do."
					"And you replied to him?"
					"I told him I was going straight ahead. And I showed him that I was stronger than he
						was. He then suddenly became pleasant again, said his threat had been only a joke. If I
						called the turn on him once, I guess I can call it again if necessary."
					Clifford made mental note of this threat. "Let's come back to Jack. Would you mind
						being more explicit why, and in what way, you want me to help? "
					"All my chances of success are based upon making a man of Jack. As matters now stand,
						it would ruin everything if I were to see him often. Jack is very susceptible to the
						influence of the people immediately around him -- and if I dare not see him, how can I
						influence him? That is my supreme difficulty."



					

					"I see," said Clifford.
					"Just there is where I want you to help me. Jack likes you. I want you to see a lot of
						him -- help keep him working -- help keep him straight."
					Clifford stared at her. Her calm audacity was almost unbelievable -- and yet it was
						just like Mary Regan.
					"I'll help you," he said after a moment. "Is there any special source of danger you
						fear?"
					"Only the general situation. Everything depends on Jack's being a man. Just now I can't
						help him much; and Jack -- you understand -- is likely to go in the direction of the
						person who is nearest him."
					"I'll do what I can," said Clifford.
					Then, for the first time since his entrance, she showed emotion. Impulsively she thrust
						out her hand and clasped his.
					" Thank you!" she said.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XX
					

					
						CLIFFORD'S NEW ASSIGNMENT
					

					WHEN Clifford left her, though still amazed at the task she had set
						him, he was more occupied with a new possibility -- Life worked so strangely! -- that
						had come upon him during their talk. Had Mary, through her scheming to achieve worldly
						place and fortune by means of Jack, come by slow degrees and perhaps unknown to herself
						to have a real responsibility toward Jack? And if so, how would she react under that
						responsibility if ever a crisis should arise?
					At once Clifford began work upon this strange assignment. And at once this assignment,
						strange as it was to start with, took on an even stranger twist -- though this new turn
						was not at once definitely apparent.
					Clifford was curious concerning Jack in his new rô1e as a business man; and half an
						hour after leaving Mary he was shown into an office in a large suite down in the
						financial district. Jack sprung up eagerly from a littered desk.
					"Hello, Bob! Say, this is great, your dropping in on me like this -- a regular relief
						expedition to a strayed North-Pole-hunting outfit! Only, as a financier, I'm no
						Commodore Peary; I'm in the Dr. Cook class."



					

					Clifford returned the smile of the pleasant, almost boyish face. "How goes the work,
						Jack?"
					The young fellow made a grimace at the papers on his desk. "They've turned over a
						one-cylinder mining proposition to me to handle. Oh, ye gods! Bob -- has science yet
						discovered an anti-toxin for work?"
					"Then you're getting tired of it?" Clifford asked, studying him keenly.
					"Tired, you bet! -- and also tangled. But I'm going to stick it out." He lowered his
						voice: "You know, it's all Mary's doing, my starting to toil in this old foundry. She
						said I had to make good -- and you can just bet I am going to make good!"
					Clifford nodded. "It's great stuff; hang on with all your teeth. But you can't be on
						the job all the time. Suppose we have dinner together this evening and then see a
						show?"
					"Sorry, Bob, but I'm dated up with dad tonight. If you'll make it to-morrow evening,
						though, you're on."
					"All right. Say we meet at seven in the Gold Room at the Grantham."
					It was so agreed. Clifford left Jack with one dominant impression: at least this phase
						of Mary's scheme was visibly succeeding -- Jack, whom no one had ever been able to get
						to go to work before, seemed tightly anchored to his job.
					The next evening Clifford was at a table in the Grantham at seven. He waited until
						eight -- untroubled  -- but Jack did not appear and no
						message came from him. It puzzled him somewhat, but provoked him more. But, remembering
						his promise to Mary, he swallowed his resentment and the next afternoon he called Jack
						up at the Morton offices. He was informed that Jack had not come down at all the day
						previous, nor had he appeared this day.
					Clifford began to think. That same afternoon, at six-thirty, which he had learned was
						the elder Morton's cocktail-time, he wandered into the lounge of the Biltmore bar. Here
						he found Mr. Morton, and casually he inquired for Jack.
					"I was afraid the boy would n't stick," said the handsome, middle-aged man of the
						world, "and now I've had proof of it. Here's a telegram I received from him this
						afternoon, filed on board the Canadian Express, saying he'd suddenly decided to run away
						for a bit of shooting. Just like him, to disappear without a word's notice."
					Clifford read the telegram, and returned it to the Western financier; and after a few
						commonplace remarks he walked away with a casual air. But within his calm exterior he
						was seething with suspicions, ideas, questions. He dropped into a chair in the wide
						corridor, and eyes fixed on an evening paper, he rapidly studied this new situation.
						That telegram was a fake. Jack Morton, however irresponsible, would never so behave
						while he felt as he did toward Mary Regan. Jack Morton had disappeared, and  some will other than his own had controlled his
						disappearance.
					Who had brought about this disappearance? If there was a plot here, just what was the
						plot? -- and what its purpose? Was Jack himself the victim primarily aimed at? -- his
						father? -- Mary? -- some other person?
					Into his mind there flashed something Mary had spoken of: that menacing demand of Peter
						Loveman, coupled with Loveman's jovial declaration that his threat had been only a joke.
						Was that shrewd, far-scheming lawyer behind the disappearance of Jack? And if so, what
						was his ultimate object? -- what was his present plan?
					A new idea occurred to Clifford. A minute later he was in a telephone booth talking to
						Mary.
					"What have you heard from Jack since I saw you?"
					"Not a word." There was concern in her voice. "He always telephones me two or three
						times a day."
					"And you've had no telegram?"
					"No."
					"There's nothing to worry about," -- and Clifford told her of the telegram Jack's
						father had received. 
					"But why should n't he have telegraphed me, too?" she demanded.
					"You know Jack is inclined to be careless, even with the people he likes best," he
						assured her. He gave her no hint of his suspicions; already it was  part of his vaguely forming counter-plan that Mary must be kept from
						guessing what he suspected.
					He hung up and returned to his chair. He had picked up one point -- perhaps. The fact
						that Mary had received no telegram, did it not signify that the person behind the
						scheme, whoever the person was, while wishing to reassure Mr. Morton, desired to disturb
						Mary? Might it not be an essential part of the scheme that Mary should be disturbed? It
						seemed possible.
					Sitting there in the corridor, Clifford had still another idea -- and during the days
						that followed it became the backbone of his plan. Here was mystery enough: the sudden
						disappearance of Jack in a manner so in keeping with his known character as to cause no
						public commotion. But he now saw this case as a double case. He was going to try to
						clear up Jack's disappearance, yes; but though professionally the solution of that
						disappearance was his chief interest, as a man he was more interested in Mary Regan --
						for though he knew her so well, she was to him still the supreme mystery. He was going
						to do all he could do, yes; but he decided that he was going to keep himself in the
						background of this new development of affairs, and direct the action, or leave it to its
						own direction, so that whatever situation arose, Mary would have to face it squarely and
						alone. He was going to force a show-down of Mary's real nature -- to make Life test her.
						That was his second, and dominant, task.



					
					The search for Jack Morton was the foundation for this second task, and Clifford sensed
						Loveman to be his best lead. That night, with all the appearance of merely killing time,
						Clifford sat at a little table in the Gold Room at the Grantham. But while he dawdled,
						he slipped an occasional glance across the big glittering room at the small round table
						known as "Mr. Loveman's table." The table was as yet empty: Clifford did not wonder at
						this -- the hour was only eleven, this was the opening of a new play, and Loveman was an
						habitual first-nighter.
					Presently a hand fell on Clifford's shoulder. "Hello, Bob, -- what's wrong with the
						world?"
					Clifford looked up. Beside him was the plump, smartly dressed person of Peter Loveman,
						smiling amiably.
					"Nothing much is wrong, Loveman, -- except most of my war-babies have
						whooping-cough."
					"Buck up, old scout, and come over to my table, and let me buy you some
						bubble-water."
					"Can't, thank you. I'm waiting for a party." And then Clifford, with seeming
						carelessness, but watching Loveman all the while, played a bold card: "What d' you think
						-- I was to have had supper here with Jack Morton. And I just learned from his father
						that the young scamp has gone to Canada on a shooting trip."
					Loveman showed a mild surprise; in him the stage had lost an admirable actor. "You
						don't say! I had n't heard that."



					

					"His father showed me Jack's telegram. Jack might at least have sent me word before
						this," said Clifford.
					"Just like Jack: a good fellow, but you can't count on him." Loveman's voice lowered.
						"I wonder if our common friend, Mary Regan, has heard anything from him."
					"Not unless he thinks a lot more of her than he does of me," Clifford grumbled.
					"Queer situation there, is n't it?" mused Loveman. "Would n't be surprised if he had
						treated her the same as he has you." The lawyer's tone became humorously lugubrious.
						"Well, we all have our troubles. Here's that little Nina Cordova. After I've said a
						fond, swift, and eternal farewell to twenty thousand dollars backing her in that awful
						frost 'Orange Blossoms' -- honest, a guinea-hen that'd half-swallowed an open safety-pin
						would pull out its hair and eat bichloride if it had a voice like Nina's -- here's Nina
						begging me to back her in a new piece that's a crippled and half-witted twin to 'Orange
						Blossoms.' Can you beat it! And yet I suppose I'll come across. That's just the sort of
						sucker game I always fall for."
					With a gesture of mock despair, the little lawyer -- true lover of the best in music
						and the arts, and patron of the worst -- crossed to his table. Clifford knew that
						Loveman, as well as himself, had been fencing. He wondered whether he had made Loveman
						believe that he believed in Jack's northern trip,  and
						that he was unconcerned about Jack and Mary. He thought he had.
					Clifford, alert for every possible clue, managed to keep an eye on Loveman's table.
						Presently he saw a lithe, handsome young man in close conversation with Loveman. It was
						Hilton, whom from a previous experience he knew to be a suave adventurer in this
						brilliant border-world wherein smart fashion and glossed scoundrelism mix in easy
						fellowship. So then Hilton and Loveman, for mutual advantage, had adjusted the financial
							contretemps which had risen when their plans had crossed that
						afternoon at the Mordona. This undoubtedly meant that something was brewing. Clifford
						would have given his balance at the bank and all he could have borrowed there, to have
						known the exact substance of their talk.
					After a few minutes Hilton nodded as if some point had been settled, and with the grace
						of the professional dancer, crossed the great room and went out. Clifford's first
						impulse was to follow him, but he thought better of it and kept his place. He had his
						recompense, for a little later the dainty Nina Cordova entered with an escort. Soon, as
						if by the ordinary drifting of after-midnight merry-makers, she, too, was conversing
						with Peter Loveman.
					Again Clifford would have been glad to trade his cash and credit that he might hear. He
						knew that this girlish-looking creature had been privately fitted into more than one of
						Loveman's adroit plans of this pleasure world; and he remembered, too, that  less than a year before there had been the beginning of an
						affair between Jack and Nina -- that she, with fame glittering before her excited
						vision, had dropped Jack for what she always spoke of as "her art"; and he guessed that
						now, having been pushed by managerial enterprise beyond her meager merits as a singer in
						musical comedy, and having toppled ingloriously from her lofty dreams, she might have
						quite other plans.
					If there was a plot, could Nina be in it? And if she was in it, what was her part? And
						if Hilton was in it, what was that gentleman's rô1e?
					Nina and Loveman went off together toward three o'clock. Clifford, alive with
						suspicion, followed in a taxi -- only to see Nina set down at her hotel, and see Loveman
						drive straight to his apartment house and enter. Clifford watched the windows of the
						lawyer's studio apartment, wondering if any person had been waiting within to consult
						with Loveman; but promptly at four o'clock -- Loveman's regular hour for going to bed --
						the studio windows darkened. 
					Clifford had learned nothing that was definite. But he had the sense, the result of
						long experience, that he was on the trail of the parties chiefly concerned, and that he
						was close upon something big -- though that something was provokingly intangible and
						elusive.
					There was but one way to handle so obscure a situation: that was by an intensive study
						of every  possibility, and the next day Clifford began
						upon this slow, cautious programme. Loveman's telephone wires had already been tapped by
						the Police Department. Clifford now took the vacant apartment above Loveman's and
						secretly installed a dictagraph in the big studio which served Loveman as a library.
						Always there were ears at these wires; and with the help of four of Commissioner
						Thorne's best plainclothes men, Clifford tried to keep every movement of the suspects
						covered. Also he enlisted the aid of Uncle George, in whose ears the secret doings of
						Broadway were somehow mysteriously published. Loveman came and went about his business
						and pleasures, apparently as usual; Hilton was not seen again; Nina Cordova was seen
						only two other times; and once, for a few minutes in the Claridge restaurant, Clifford
						saw another woman with Loveman -- one Nan Burdette, who had had a meteoric career in New
						York's pleasure life, and about whom Clifford had heard a thing or two not at all to
						that young woman's credit. And though she never knew it, Clifford personally kept a
						watch over Mary Regan. Some way, he felt sure, Mary was involved in this.
					Also as part of this plan of studying all possibly related circumstances, Clifford
						scrutinized every available item of the pasts of Hilton and Nan Burdette and Nina
						Cordova.
					But for all his own effort and the efforts of those helping him, Clifford still had
						little more than suspicion  to explain the disappearance
						of Jack Morton. Jack could not have vanished more clearly had gravitation become
						suddenly invalidated and had he been shot off into space in the night.
					Clifford kept doggedly at his method. It was all slow work, painstaking work, and
						tedious, tiring, undramatic work -- as all good police work is and necessarily must be,
						except for now and then a turn of luck, a moment of inspiration. But after the fifth day
						following Jack's disappearance a change was noticeable: from the various sources of
						information which Clifford had set to work, little details began to be accumulated --
						bits of action that had been seen, fragments of talk overheard by the patient listeners
						on the wires. His accumulation of tiny facts increased rapidly; and fitting the
						fragments together he began to perceive the outlines of a plan, though as yet he had no
						proof -- a plan which, if he was conjecturing truly, was a typical case of how clever
						powers may operate through and behind the brilliant activities of Big Pleasure -- of how
						such powers may subtly twist persons to their own ends, the person never guessing what
						has really happened. 
					On the seventh day there came to him another fragment which made him see his conjecture
						as an even stronger possibility, which made him feel that this hidden plan was drawing
						toward its climax -- and which caused him hastily to send off the following note to
						Mary: -- 
						
							If you wish me to help you, then you must take no action without first referring it
								to me. And if any person asks you to do any particular thing, I want you to learn
								all the details of any proposed plan and then tell me, before you give your answer.
								You can invent plausible excuses for any delay.
						
					The next day proved how correct had been the reasoning that had prompted the sending of
						this note, for in the afternoon he had a message that Mary wished to see him at once. He
						hurried to her apartment, quickened with suspense.
					"Mr. Loveman has found that I am staying here," she began.
					"I knew that. He was bound to find you sooner or later. Has he asked for anything?"
					"He has invited me out for the evening."
					"You are to go with him alone?"
					"So he said."
					"You learned definitely where he was going to take you?"
					"Yes. To dinner at the Ritz -- to a play at the Empire Theater -- to supper at
						Delmonico's -- then dancing at that new café, Le Minuit. Shall I accept?"
					Clifford thought rapidly. "Certainly."
					"What do you think is in his mind?"
					"Merely to entertain you," -- though Clifford did not believe his own words, -- "to try
						to reestablish himself in good standing with you."
					"Then how should I behave?"



					
					"Just have as good a time as you can."
					Clifford was cool enough until he was out of her presence; then feverishly he
						considered what she had told him. Whatever this subterranean affair might be, if this
						invitation had any part in it, he reasoned that nothing would happen at such discreet
						places of entertainment as the Ritz-Carlton, the Empire Theater, or Delmonico's.
						Instinctively he knew that the design would unfold itself, if it were to be unfolded
						that evening, at Le Minuit, an establishment which had just then caught the errant fancy
						of some of the smarter social set, and naturally, therefore, of members of the smarter
						set of the demi-world and underworld.
					His business, therefore, was to be at Le Minuit. 
				
				

				

					CHAPTER XXI
					

					
						AT THE MIDNIGHT CAFÉ
					

					MONSIEUR LE BAIN, proprietor
						of the Grand Alcazar, was a man of ideas and was by way of being a bit of a monopolist
						in his chosen business. But he was careful not to be his own competitor; so when he had
						prospered to the point where prosperity could be enlarged only by a second restaurant,
						he took great thought that he should not injure that excellent proposition, the Grand
						Alcazar. The result of this thought was Le Minuit, which he so named because its doors
						did not open until midnight. 
					Shortly after twelve Clifford, turning a few paces off Broadway, mounted a brilliant
						stairway. By being off the street floor, "The Midnight" gave a sense (an effect
						carefully thought out by Monsieur Le Bain) of privacy and also of piquant naughtiness.
						He was in evening dress; patrons of the place, male or female, had to be so garbed to
						pass the gold- braided guardian who held the outer door.
					Inside the café, Clifford was approached by a head waiter.
					"I want to see Monsieur Le Bain -- at once," he said in that manner which head waiters
						instinctively obey.



					
					The head waiter vanished. The next moment Monsieur Le Bain was approaching.
					"Joe," Clifford began shortly, "this joint is being watched, and I've got my eyes on
						it, too."
					"Honest to God, I ain't pullin' nothin' crooked here," responded Monsieur Le Bain,
						lapsing from his French accent into the one more natural to him.
					"You'd better not try to," Clifford warned grimly, looking coldly and squarely into his
						dark eyes. Seeing that he had made his impression, Clifford inquired: "Mr. Loveman come
						yet?"
					"No."
					"But he has a table reserved for two?"
					"Yes."
					"Joe, you give me a table for one, close to it, so I can see Loveman, without being
						seen."
					"I can fix you up with a cabinet particulier," the other said cringingly, "if it's
						privacy you want."
					"I don't want to be alone in any cabinet particulier. I want to be alone where I can
						see. You're going to fix that up, Joe, -- and you're not going to pass any tip along to
						Mr. Loveman. Otherwise you'll be hearing something from the Bureau of Licenses that
						won't be healthy for your business."
					"Aw, now, don't get sore," said Monsieur Le Bain, "it's goin' to be just like you
						say."
					It was. Two minutes later Clifford was in a nook at one end of the big after-midnight
						restaurant, a tubbed palm insuring him privacy from any save those who should purposely
						come investigating. A  few yards away, with a placard
						"Reserved," was the table that had been indicated as Loveman's. Along the nearest side
						of the room was a row of begilded doors, entrances into small private dining-rooms --
						Monsieur Le Bain's "cabinets particulier." The passing of waiters through these doors
						with loaded trays, and the issuance of laughter, informed Clifford that some of these
						rooms were already occupied.
					Clifford's job was now a waiting job; and while he waited the appearance of Loveman and
						Mary Regan, he took in the restaurant. Le Minuit, though it advertised "newest
						decorations, most titillating dishes, most astonishing entertainment," was to Clifford
						the same old thing: its only individual appeal to the imagination was that it did not
						open till midnight, and that it was reputed to be supreme in the matter of naughty
						surprises. The pretentious mural paintings -- the rows of mirrors inserted in the walls,
						framed with gilded plaster -- the palms in tubs -- the artificial vines, with their
						clusters of purple glass grapes hanging from the latticed ceiling: all was to him a
						wearisome duplication. And Le Minuit's cabaret was the same old thing -- perhaps a bit
						more risqué than the average -- except for its great feature, one
						Molkarina, a native Hawaiian dancer, who whirled and contorted and jiggled in what New
						York accepted as authentic folk-dances -- -- but who, as Clifford knew, had never been
						any nearer the much-sung island beaches than the Barbary Coast of San Francisco.



					

					Of the three or four hundred persons who by this time were in the room, Clifford knew
						some by name, all he knew by types. There were a few indubitable members of the smartest
						social set for whom the wildest was becoming tame and cloying; and there were men and
						women hardly less well dressed, who lived by every means except honest effort -- who
						were looking for pleasure and looking for prey; and in between these showy extremes were
						a few work-a-day persons who had come hither in a spirit of daring exploration.
					Presently Clifford saw Mary Regan, obsequiously led by Monsieur Le Bain himself, and
						followed by the urbane little Peter Loveman, make way through the hilarious room and
						take possession of the reserved table. Clifford keyed himself to watch and listen. He
						sensed that he was now about to have revealed to him the heart of this whole
						business.
					Evidently Loveman had given full orders in advance, for almost immediately supper, with
						champagne in an ice pail, was brought to the table. The talk at first was chiefly the
						amusing, disarming chatter of which Loveman was a master. Then by degrees it became more
						serious, then it shifted to Mary and her plans.
					"Let's face the whole situation squarely, Mary," Clifford heard the little man say in
						his most plausible voice. "I'm perfectly willing to back you up in the original
						proposition -- stand right behind you -- the same as I promised -- if you still want  me to. But let's not bunk ourselves. Mary, I'm telling you
						God's truth -- it's a great game if you could put it over -- only you can't
							put it over!"
					"I've told you I'm going to try, Peter Loveman," she returned steadily, "and if you
						double-cross me, I'll do exactly what I said I'd do -- and that means you'll be shown up
						to the Mortons and, besides, won't get a nickel out of them."
					"Now, now, Mary, let's don't talk threats. Whatever the play, we've got to back each
						other's hand; and if your play seems the best play, I'll be right with you. But let's
						look at the facts sensibly, Mary. First fact, my dear: you're basing your hope of
						succeeding in your plan, -- it was the original plan of us all, -- you're building that
						plan, on Jack."
					"What do you mean by that, Mr. Loveman?"
					"I could n't help seeing what was in your mind, my dear. You've been trying to reform
						Jack. You believe that if you can steady Jack down permanently -- make a real
						responsible man of him, which is what everybody else has failed to do so far -- that
						you'll make yourself so solid with both of the Mortons, so much of a necessity, that
						they'll forgive whatever you've done and gladly take you on as a regular member of the
						family. And as a member of the family you believe you'll add to the Morton dignity and
						prestige."
					"You think I can't do that as well as any woman?" Mary demanded.
					"That part of it you'd do better than any other  woman!"
						Loveman hastened to reply. "But I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about what comes
						before that -- your plan to make a man out of Jack. You never can do that."
					"Why not?"
					"Several reasons. Chiefly because Jack can't be made a man of."
					"I can do it."
					"Mary, let's quit kidding ourselves," Loveman returned gravely, quietly. "Unless you're
						with Jack constantly you can't influence him. And if you've seen Jack during the last
						ten days you've done more than any one else has."
					Mary tried to speak calmly. "Jack recently left New York on a hunting trip."
					Loveman shook his head. "Shooting would never take Jack away from New York; certainly
						not for ten days. He's just -- I think you understand." He regarded Mary keenly. "You
						know Jack's old reputation; he used to show more speed than any man who ever entered the
						Broadway Free-for-All. He never cared much for song -- but he was all for the other two
						members of the old trio. The last bottle was Jack's quitting place, and daybreak was his
						bedtime."
					"Well?" demanded Mary.
					Loveman answered slowly. "There's a rumor about that Jack's his old self once more;
						that secretly he's been in New York all the while, and that Broadway's got him
						again."



					

					"I don't believe it!" cried Mary in a low voice.
					"And I do," Loveman said solemnly -- "though I have no proof."
					Clifford could see that Mary, gazing across at the little lawyer, had turned very
						white. For all her confident exterior, he guessed she now feared that Jack had done just
						what Loveman had said.
					"Well?" she challenged.
					"If Jack has, -- and I'm sure he has, -- is n't it perfectly plain that you can never
						make a responsible man of him? And if you can't make a man of him, it's perfectly plain
						that you can never put your plan across."
					"Well?" repeated Mary.
					Loveman leaned farther over the table and spoke in a low voice -- though Clifford got
						his every word. "Drop the game, Mary. It's a dead one. There's not one penny for you, or
						any one else, in trying to play it further. Drop it, and come in on the basis I spoke of
						a week or so ago."
					Mary's face gave no sign of what she might be thinking. "Just what was that -- if you
						don't mind outlining it again?"
					"First item: I don't need to remind you that I'm retained by Mr. Morton to look after
						Jack; say in a week I bring in a report that Jack has contracted a secret marriage --
						which means a bill for ten thousand for detective services, which I'll split with you.
						Second item: he'll want a divorce; I'll handle the case and get a big fee -- that's
						where I  come in. You'll not fight, if he'll pay high
						enough; that's where you clean up between a hundred thousand and half a million -- and
						being on the inside I'll be in a position to tell you the top figure that Morton will
						pay. And third item: freed of this mess, and with Mrs. Jack Morton as your legal name,
						there's no end to the big propositions I could put across for and with you -- you with
						your looks and brains, and I with my inside knowledge of New York domestic life. Big
						stuff -- big, I tell you! I could land you close to the top!"
					His enthusiasm, which had mounted as he spoke, now abated to a tone of solid,
						unanswerable argument. "That's why I say to you to drop your present impossible game,
						and come into these new propositions."
					She did not answer at once; so that he was led to prompt her: "That's plain enough, is
						n't it, Mary? -- that the thing to do is to stop thinking about Jack and come in on
						these other lines?"
					"Perhaps," she answered steadily. "But first, I've got to find out about Jack. I don't
						believe what you believe."
					"Well, I'm disappointed -- though perhaps I don't blame you. But the proposition stands
						open."
					With the philosophic sigh of the man to whom the world has taught patience, he fell
						upon the remainder of his half of the guinea-hen. Clifford saw him rub his napkin twice
						across his mouth, place it upon his knees, from where it slipped to the floor -- which
							 may or may not have been a signal. But, at any rate,
						the next moment a waiter, who had been standing close at hand, opened the door of the
						nearest cabinet particulier. "Did you ring?" he said, and stepping inside left the door
						open. Mary's gaze, wandering from her table-mate, went through the doorway, and she saw,
						what Clifford also saw from his retreat: Jack Morton, his features soddenly loose,
						leaning in a stupor against the shoulder of a woman.
					She stared fixedly at this picture so unexpectedly enframed by the doorway; then
						involuntarily there burst from her lips: -- 
					"Good God -- look!"
					Loveman raised his eyes from his guinea-hen, and followed her gaze. "Well -- of all
						things!"
					The waiter, coming out, closed the door, and the brief picture was gone. Then Loveman
						turned on Mary, his big eyes wide with amazement.
					"That certainly is some jolt! Not that I'm surprised at the fact -- only surprised at
						our coming on it like this."
					Clifford saw that he regarded her keenly. She was very pale and strained, but said
						nothing.
					"Well, who guessed right?" he ventured after a moment. Then, more confidently: "That
						ought to settle matters, Mary. There's nothing else to it -- you're coming in on the new
						line."
					Again Mary did not speak. But for Loveman there was no need for her to speak. Clifford
						easily guessed what was passing in his mind. The danger 
						which she represented to Loveman was now averted; the plans which he was going to carry
						out with her were already successes. His active brain was leaping months, even years,
						ahead. This was one of the big moments of his life -- one of those few moments when a
						series of great achievements become suddenly possible.
					But Clifford could not see into the soul of Mary Regan; tensely he wondered what was
						passing therein -- and waited.
				


				

				

					CHAPTER XXII
					

					
						MARY MAKES AN OFFER
					

					MARY, gazing at that little door, was, for all her composed
						exterior, sick of soul: contrary emotions and impulses clashed within her. A fury
						suddenly possessed her. She had lost -- been defeated in her great plan by the
						invertebrateness of one man. Well, Jack could go his champagne-bottled way to the
						inevitable end of such as he! She was through!... And then she remembered Maisie Jones,
						admiring tears in her proud eyes, and she recalled her trembling words of belief: "You
						can do what I can never do -- you've proved that you can make a real man of Jack."
					She rose quickly. "I'm going to get him," she breathed huskily.
					" Wait -- you must n't!" cried Loveman in alarm, starting up and clutching at her
						wrist.
					But she eluded him, and made for the little door of the cabinet particulier, he at her
						skirt -- and Clifford just behind them. What they all saw was a tricksy, ornate room,
						lighted with imitation electric candles; Jack now toppled forward limp and unconscious
						among the dishes; and about the table Nina Cordova, Hilton, that polished adventurer of
						the smart hotels, and Nan Burdette, high-colored, bold-eyed café favorite.

					

					Mary moved inside, Loveman at her heels. But Clifford remained without, waiting. The
						situation was Mary's -- for her to face, for her to reveal herself by.
					Mary stepped quickly forward and shook Jack's shoulder. "Jack -- wake up! Come on out
						of this!"
					Jack, a limp weight, showed no life, but the other three did. Nan Burdette sprang
						up.
					"Stop that! What d' you think you're doing?"
					Mary flamed at her -- and at Nina Cordova -- and at Hilton. "I'm going to take him away
						from you blood-suckers," she said with cold fury.
					"You call me that -- " the café beauty was beginning angrily, when Nina Cordova, the
						petite, rose and checked her. "Shut up, Nan!" She leaned toward Mary, and spoke
						cuttingly, "Why, if it is n't the little dame that Jack lived with, and got tired of,
						and then gave the grand shake. Well, little one, what are you going to do with your
						darling sweetheart who loves you so much that he's run away to avoid the sight of
						you?"
					Mary's voice was chokingly composed. She returned the other's ironical gaze with a
						glare of contempt. 
					"I'm going to take him away from you people -- to where he can sober up -- have a
						chance to think about it all -- become himself. That's what I'm going to do."
					"And what good'll that do you?" pursued Nina cuttingly -- "since he's all through with
						you?"



					

					"What he thinks of me has nothing to do with the case," Mary returned.
					"Mary, it's no use -- keep out of this!" cried little Loveman. He took her arm to draw
						her away, but she shook him off.
					"I'm going to do exactly what I said I'd do. Come on, Jack."
					"No, you're not!" Nina cried, suddenly sharp and venomous, leaning farther across the
						table. "You just try to start anything like that and I'll tell the Mortons who you
						really are -- Miss Mary Regan!"
					Hilton, finished gentleman of hotel, café, and ballroom, had moved around the table to
						her side. "And start anything, and I'll tell what I know," he said in a hard voice, his
						hands twitching. "And it'll be something besides what Miss Cordova will tell. I believe
						you get me, Mrs. Mary Regan Grayson!"
					"And we won't put off telling till to-morrow!" cried Nina Cordova. She moved quickly to
						a little wall telephone, tinted in gray-and-gold to match the room, and took down the
						receiver.
					"Give me the Biltmore.... The Biltmore? Connect me with Mr. Morton .... Mr. Morton,
						this is Miss Cordova. Will you please hold the wire a moment." 
					She muffled the mouthpiece with a palm and turned upon Mary. "Get out of this -- or
						your finish will come in just one second!"
					Clifford's eyes, taking in all, were centered on Mary, who was gazing at all these
						faces bent upon  her in menace. He saw that her impulses
						had come to a sudden halt; that she realized that these persons could, and would, do
						exactly what they threatened; that their telling would mean an immediate end to the
						ambitious plans for which she had schemed and worked and waited so hard.
					There was silence in the little cabinet particulier; all the figures, save Jack's,
						stood in tense tableau -- waiting. Clifford, looking through the aperture of the door,
						recognized that this was a climax in Mary Regan's life. Events, with some guidance from
						him had arranged a supreme test. The next instant would prove something -- what? He was
						as taut as those within.
					Mary, with slow calm, drew a deep breath; her figure stiffened. "Mr. Hilton, Miss
						Cordova," she said steadily, slowly, her eyes not leaving them, "you may tell everything
						you like. I am going to take Jack away from here."
					At her words an exultant thrill leaped through Clifford. She had had her choice -- and
						had chosen the way of her own destruction!
					Mary put an arm under Jack's shoulders. "Stop that!" cried Nina, in sudden fury,
						dropping the telephone receiver and clutching the unconscious Jack, so that he was torn
						away from Mary's arm. With energetic fury she turned on Loveman. "Peter Loveman, make
						her stop! You promised me, if I'd come into this, you'd fix up a marriage between Jack
						and me!" 


					
					"Shut up, Nina!" Loveman cut in sharply, in half panic. "Mary," he cried, seizing her
						arm, "come on -- let's leave her -- quick!"
					But the lithe Hilton did not depend upon the influence of mere words. From somewhere
						out of his elegant person he drew a small pistol, and this he thrust against Mary's
						side.
					"Get out of this," he snapped, "or this gun goes off! And we'll all swear it was
						suicide. The gun's a lady's size, and suicides are common in joints like this. Get
						out!"
					Mary did not quiver -- she looked Hilton squarely in his handsome, evil face. At that
						instant Clifford stepped swiftly into the room and closed the light door behind him. The
						next instant he had wrenched the pistol from Hilton's hand, and pocketed it, and had
						seized both Hilton and Loveman by their collars. 
					"Cut out that rough stuff, Hilton, or I finish you off here!" he said. "And so,
						Loveman, I've got you at it again?"
					The little lawyer twisted about -- gave Clifford a startled stare -- and then forced a
						smile intended to be tolerant, but which was sickly. "Why, Bob, I don't know a thing
						about this -- "
					"Shut up!" snapped Clifford.
					He turned to Mary, who was still bewildered by his sudden appearance, and again the
						leaping thrill went through him. "Mary, you've gone through this great! Great, I tell
						you. And these people --  don't worry about them another
						minute. You've won out!"
					Mary stared at him, now breathing quickly. "I don't quite -- understand."
					"You were not supposed to understand. There has been a big, careful, subtle plan, -- a
						plot devised by Peter Loveman, -- and you, without knowing it, were to have been the
						goat!"
					"Oh, I say now, Bob!" protested Loveman; "you're talking like a melodrama. Why should I
						plot against Mary?"
					"Why? Listen to your own words -- you know whom you said them to." And Clifford quoted,
						driving his words savagely at Loveman: "'Say, but this is one hell of a situation! Here
						I went into a game to clean up in three or four directions, relying chiefly on the
						criminal instincts of a clever girl to see the game through -- and, damn it, if the girl
						has n't turned straight on me! Or, if she is playing a crooked game, she's trying to
						play it straight. And the original game is no good now -- is sure to fail. I want her to
						quit it, and come in on some other big proposition; but she won't quit it -- she still
						dreams she can put it over. And if I openly block her, she'll blow on herself and me,
						and break with me, and that'll end everything. How's that for a hell of a fix!' Remember
						saying that, Loveman?"
					Loveman had paled. "I don't know what you're talking about."
					"And remember saying this, Loveman?" Clifford  drove at
						him: "'I've got to have Mary Regan with us. But the only way out of this mess is to
						handle affairs so as to make her believe, from her own experience, that she can't
						succeed in her respectable game -- then she'll come around to our way of thinking, and
						she'll try to clean up with us. And there's only one way to reach her -- and that's
						through Jack Morton."'
					Clifford turned sharply upon Mary. "Is n't it clear to you now? -- Jack's disappearance
						and all the rest? Loveman was determined your plan with Jack Morton should not go ahead.
						Since he did n't dare openly oppose you, he concluded that the best scheme to defeat you
						would be to get hold of Jack and handle him so that he would give himself over
						completely to dissipation -- that would show you how hopeless your plan was, and you'd
						drop it. You've been framed, and Jack's been framed; and this wine party in here was
						part of the frame-up; and Loveman's letting you have a glimpse, as if by chance, of Jack
						in here, a hopeless débauché, was to have been the clinching argument
						that would make you give up and join in with him."
					"Clifford," blustered Loveman, "everything you have just said is a lie! -- and Mary
						knows it."
					"Loveman," returned Clifford in grim wrath, "even though you are a small man, I'd hit
						you in the face if I did n't think it might improve your features." He turned again to
						Mary. "Hilton and Nan Burdette have been Loveman's chief tools for  keeping Jack drunk and out of sight; they're both experts at such business.
						Miss Cordova has been in it to help out in some of the finer points; she's an old-time
						friend of Jack, and you've just learned of an ambition of her own. That's the case, Miss
						Regan. I don't feel like praising Jack, but it's only fair to him to emphasize that he's
						not here because he tired of you, as they've tried to make you think. I want you to
						understand clearly that Jack is the victim of this smooth bunch; that whatever he felt
						toward you two weeks ago, he doubtless still feels; that whatever he then was, he
						probably still is."
					"A lot of good that'll do her, when I tell what I know!" burst out the infuriated Miss
						Cordova.
					"And I can tell a little that will help," grimly added Nan Burdette.
					There was a glitter in Hilton's dark eyes, and he bared his white teeth. "And what I've
						got to tell will jam up her game even worse! You and she are not going to get away with
						this!"
					"The three of you are going to say exactly nothing! Nan Burdette," -- with sudden
						incisiveness, -- "I know your part in that Gordon affair. Miss Cordova, I've got more
						than a hunch about that pearl necklace Mrs. Sinclair gave her husband to have repaired
						and which strangely disappeared. And, Hilton, I've got a lead about a certain lady who
						fainted -- she really drank drugged tea -- at an afternoon dance at the Grantham and
						whose diamond brooch was not afterwards found. I'd run 
						every one of you in this minute -- only I'd rather keep things quiet and give Miss Regan
						her chance to do just as she pleases concerning Jack Morton. But if there is one word --
						and I'll know it, if there is -- if there's one word from any of you that touches on
						Miss Regan, I'll get every one of you!"
					He turned sharply on Loveman. "These are your people, Peter Loveman; working under your
						orders. You tell them to keep their mouths closed about Miss Regan; if there's a peep,
						something very unexpected is also going to happen to you."
					"See here, Clifford," protested Loveman, "I've no control over them!"
					"Believe it or not, Loveman, but I've got you, too," Clifford retorted sharply, "only
						I'd rather not close in on you just yet unless you make me. You'll give them that order
						and see that they obey it, or you'll get what you'll get!"
					Loveman gazed for a moment longer into Clifford's set face. Then with a feeble attempt
						at a pleasant smile he turned to the others: -- 
					"I guess you all understand that I'd like to have you do as Mr. Clifford says."
					"That's all," said Clifford sharply. "Now, get out of here -- all of you. You can
						settle your bills outside. I give you just one minute."
					Within the minute they were gone. Mary and Clifford, alone in the little room, Jack
						still pitched unconsciously forward upon the table, looked at each other for a long
						space. Despite the fake Hawaiian  music and the laughter
						of the mixed world of Le Minuit, which sounded through the thin partitions, there was in
						reality a deep silence between them.
					"I want to thank you -- I want to thank you very much," breathed Mary, at length.
					He seemed not to hear her halting words. "Do you know what is the really big thing
						about all this?"
					"What?"
					He spoke very quickly. "By your action a few minutes ago, you proved that you are not
						wholly the worldly person you thought you were. The risks you then took were not to save
						your ambitious plan; you took them to save Jack. You forgot yourself. Through your own
						scheming Life placed a responsibility on you -- and you accepted it. That is the big
						thing!"
					She stared at him, bewildered questioning in her pale, dark face. He saw that she still
						did not understand herself -- the impulses which had moved her -- and which might still
						be moving her. For a moment she did not speak. Then she asked, looking down at Jack: -- 
					"But what am I to do now?"
					"That is for you to decide. When you have decided, I'll help you."
					"If I take Jack from here -- " She broke off; and stood gazing thoughtfully at the
						stupefied boy. "It would do no good unless -- unless -"
					Again she left her sentence uncompleted. The  insistent
						ringing of the little telephone, whose receiver was still dangling, caught her
						attention. She walked with a manner of decision to the telephone.
					"Central, please get me the Biltmore," she requested steadily. "This the Biltmore?
						Please connect me with Mr. Morton . . . Is this Mr. Morton? Mr. Morton, this is Mrs.
						Grayson -- Miss Gilmore, you know. I am now at Le Minuit. I wonder if you would care to
						meet me here .... Very well, in ten minutes, then. I'll be waiting in a taxi-cab down in
						front.... My answer to your invitation? Yes -- if you want my answer, I'll have it
						ready."
					She hung up.
					"He was referring to that cruise with him?" asked Clifford.
					"Yes."
					Clifford regarded her curiously: What was her purpose in summoning Mr. Morton into this
						situation?
					"I want to get Jack down into a taxi-cab," Mary went on. "How can I do it? -- and
						without attracting attention?"
					"That's easy. Nothing of that sort attracts attention at Le Minuit."
					He pressed a button, and from the waiter who appeared he demanded the immediate
						presence of Monsieur Le Bain. Two minutes later the proprietor entered.
					"Joe," Clifford ordered briefly, "get Mr. Morton's things, whatever they are, and have
						two of  your waiters help him down into a taxi, and have
						the taxi wait till we come down. Everything quiet, mind you."
					"Sure," said the Frenchman from somewhere below Fourteenth Street.
					Presently two waiters supported the still stupefied Jack out of the room; a little
						later Clifford and Mary passed unheeded through the hilarious patrons of Le Minuit, down
						the stairway, and across the light-flooded sidewalk out into the waiting taxi-cab, in
						one corner of which Jack huddled limply. Here they sat silent, waiting. Clifford had a
						sense that it was not the old Mary Regan beside whom he sat -- but that new Mary Regan
						who did not know herself: and he had a sense that, with her at least, big issues were
						still at stake.
					Presently another taxi rapidly turned the corner and came to a pause just behind them.
						Out of this the elder Morton stepped.
					"Wait here for a moment, please," Mary said to Clifford. She stepped out upon the
						brilliant sidewalk -- and Clifford looked on, wondering.
					"Oh, Miss Gilmore!" cried Morton, swiftly coming to her with an eager, expectant smile.
						"You were an angel to call me up -- after not letting me see you for so long! Though,"
						he quickly added in soft complaint, "it was n't very kind of you to run away from me as
						you did."
					"You advised me to leave the Grantham," she reminded him.



					

					"Yes, but I did n't advise you to go leaving me in ignorance of your whereabouts," he
						returned in an amiably hurt tone. "And that -- ah -- little present: was it kind to
						return it, without a word, the way you did?"
					"You mean that ten thousand dollars? I did not need the money."
					"No?" He smiled. "I thought a woman always needed money. -- Well, my dear, now that
						I've found you again I hope there'll never be another such dreary hiatus in our
						friendship. You're looking -- but I'm no poet! And at last I'm to have my answer?"
					"Yes," she said quietly.
					"Good! I've had that yacht put in commission. Everything is waiting. When'll you be
						ready to go?"
					"I'm not going," said Mary.
					"Not going! The devil you say!"
					He stared at her white, set face. Dominated by his own pleasant conception of this
						situation, he had not till then really noted her bearing. He was completely taken
						aback.
					"Well -- you have your nerve! Then why did you ask me to come over here, and at such an
						hour?"
					"I thought you might like to see your son."
					"Jack!" he exclaimed.
					She nodded. "He's in here" -- and moving back a pace she pointed into the car.
					"My God -- Jack!" breathed his father, as he  sighted the
						limp, exhausted figure. Then he saw Clifford. "You, Clifford!" he exclaimed sharply.
						"Where'd you find him?"
					Clifford stepped from the car. "I did n't find him. Miss Gilmore found him."
					Morton turned swiftly upon Mary. "So you've broken your promise and had him all this
						time!" he cried harshly. "You brought him to this!"
					"Hold on, Mr. Morton," Clifford shot in. "Miss Gilmore had not seen him till to-night.
						To-night she found him in the drunken company he's been in for ten days. She got him
						away from them and sent for you. The least a gentleman -- particularly a gentleman who
						has taken such poor care of his son -- can do under the conditions is to try to
						apologize." 
					Morton glowered at Clifford. "If that's the case, of course, I apologize. But the
						question is, where's he been all this time?"
					"It seems to me," put in Mary in the same quiet voice, "that the most important
						question is, what are you going to do with him?"
					"Do with him?" demanded Morton, staring at her. "What's in your mind?"
					Clifford had been, and still was, asking himself those same questions.
					Mary, standing between the two men, gazed very calmly at Mr. Morton. "You've had Jack
						in charge for twenty-five years -- and in there you see your work. He was with me
						awhile; during that short  time he tried to be, and was, a
						man. It's up to you to choose."
					Morton stared -- blinked his eyes -- drew a deep breath. "Am I getting you right? Are
						you suggesting that Jack come back to you?"
					Clifford now began to understand; though he had no idea -- nor perhaps did she, for
						that matter, -- of the degree to which she was moved by the tearful figure of Maisie
						Jones, breathing, "You are big -- wonderful!"
					"I think I might make a man of him," she said.
					"You mean to resume on the old basis -- the discreet Riverside Drive affair -- and all
						that?"
					"Just that. I'll do my best for him -- provided he comes with your knowledge and
						consent."
					He gazed at her intently. "You're a new kind to me!" Then, dryly: "No, thank you."
					"I shall never ask you for a single thing," she urged.
					He gazed at her, hesitating. It was not given to any of the trio to see then what a
						moment of great crisis this was. It was like the apex of so many of Life's crises --
						very quiet, very composed.
					"No, thank you," Mr. Morton said with decision. "I have other plans for him. I shall
						now handle him myself."
					"Just as you say. But remember, I made you an offer." Her calm expression did not
						change by a flicker. "Under the circumstances, the simplest arrangement would be for us
						merely to exchange 
						

							 "YOU'VE HAD JACK IN CHARGE FOR TWENTY-FIVE YEARS -- AND IN
								THERE YOU SEE YOUR WORK" 

						
						
						 taxis. I suggest that you take my taxi with your son.
						With your permission I'll take your cab. Good-night." 
					She turned about, with her composed air of finality. "Will you please help me in, Mr.
						Clifford?" Clifford did so. Over his shoulder he had a glimpse of the handsome, elderly
						man standing, loose-jawed, staring after her.
					As Clifford settled beside her and the car sprang away, there was a sharp, breaking
						choke from her, and she dropped her face into her hands. After that she gripped herself
						and sat silent, rigid, as the car spun on. Clifford, gazing on her, wondered thrillingly
						what was happening within that taut figure ... wondered what might happen in the days to
						come....


				


				

				

					CHAPTER XXIII
					

					
						LOVEMAN'S FINAL PLEA
					

					As the taxi-cab spun northward through the two-o'clock streets,
						Clifford continued to gaze at the taut figure of Mary Regan, and at her white, set face.
						It had certainly been an hour to try her soul, that experience ending a few minutes
						since at the Midnight Café.
					To Clifford it seemed that all Mary's shrewd scheming had brought her up at last
						against an unsurmountable wall. Again Clifford wondered what was passing behind that
						pale face: wondered what was going to be the ending of her great worldly plan, which
						thus far had had so many undreamed-of developments: wondered how all this tangled affair
						was going to come out for her -- and again wondered which of the two persons he knew in
						her was to be the dominant Mary Regan when this matter had played itself through to its
						unguessable conclusion.
					The taxi-cab halted, and Clifford escorted her to the door of her apartment house.
					"What are you going to do next, if you don't mind telling?" he asked.
					"I don't know yet -- perhaps nothing," she said absently. And then, with quiet vigor:
						"Jack's not to blame so much for what he is. It's chiefly his  father's fault. I wish I could make his father pay!" Her dark eyes flashed,
						her figure tensed with sudden purpose. "Yes, somehow I am going to make his father
						pay!"
					She held out her hand, and gave him a steady look. "At any rate, I want to thank you.
						You've done all you could for me. Good-night."
					"Good-night."
					He watched her in -- this strange, confident young woman, so tangled in the web of her
						own spinning, whom he had drifted into so strangely helping, and whom, though she could
						now have no part in his life, he knew he still loved. But back in the taxi-cab, his mind
						at once was on another matter. He had glimpsed Peter Loveman lurking within the doorway
						during the end of that scene in front of Le Minuit; and he knew that keen little lawyer
						was no man to give up merely because he seemed to be beaten. In fact Loveman would act
						all the more quickly for just that reason.
					Clifford drove two blocks to the south, a block west, and a block north, then, ordering
						his cab to wait, he stepped out and walked north to the next corner. He peered around
						this and waited. Presently he saw what he more than half expected to see -- Loveman
						crossing from a taxi to the entrance of Mary's apartment house. He saw him press Mary's
						button, and after a space saw Loveman push open the door and enter.
					Clifford tried to guess what plan the little lawyer, 
						whose wiles he had exposed to Mary only an hour before at Le Minuit, could regard as so
						important that it had to be undertaken at two o'clock in the morning, without the loss
						of a single possible minute. He wanted to slip down the street, enter the house, and try
						to watch and overhear; but the chauffeur in Loveman's waiting taxi might also be
						Loveman's lookout and personal guard. There was nothing for it but to wait where he was
						and watch.
					Within, up on the fourth floor, Mary stood outside her open door, looking down into the
						dark, narrow stairway, with its sharp turns and tiny landings. When the dim, mounting
						figure started up the last flight and she saw it was Loveman, she drew sharply back and
						tried to close her door. But Loveman, quick despite his plump figure, sprang up the
						final steps and thrust his walking-stick into the closing aperture. He tried to force
						the door with his shoulder, but Mary's strength on the other side was fully equal to his
						own and the door did not budge. He desisted, but kept the advantage held by his
						walking-stick. 
					"Come, Mary, my dear, don't be so inhospitable," he said through the crack, in a
						pleasantly complaining voice. "You know, I would n't have come at such an hour unless it
						was important. And you know I'm your friend."
					The door did not move.
					"This is a raw way to treat your old nurse and playmate," complained Loveman.
						"Particularly  when I've come to tell you something that
						it's your business to know -- something about Jack."
					There was a moment's silence. Then suddenly the door swung wide open, and Loveman found
						himself looking at a small automatic and beyond that at the cold face of Mary.
					"Come in, but behave yourself," she said briefly.
					He entered and closed the door. "Your suspicion hurts me, Mary, dear," he said in his
						amiably injured tone. He raised his two hands, one holding the cane and the other his
						silk hat, high above his shining dome. "Just to allay your suspicions, so we can talk as
						good friends should talk, I suggest that you first frisk me."
					"Don't be a fool, and don't try to be humorous. Put down your hands. I don't care how
						many guns you have -- I can beat you to the first shot -- and there'll be only one shot.
						What do you want?"
					Loveman lowered his hands and laid stick and hat upon a table. "Mind if an asthmatic,
						dropsical, and almost moribund gentleman sits down while he talks?" He eased himself
						into a chair without waiting her consent. "Sit down, too, Mary. If you're going to
						murder me, let's make it a comfortable affair for both of us."
					She took a chair, and sat alert with automatic held in her lap. "What do you want?" she
						repeated. 
					"First?" he replied with a smile of amiable frankness, "I've got to say that on the
						surface you do  seem to have every reason to suspect me.
						The way that business at Le Minuit turned out, and especially the way Clifford twisted
						it, it did look as though I'd tried to do you dirt. But those were only the looks --
						they were not the facts."
					"Do you mean to deny that that affair was a frame-up?" she demanded sharply.
					"I do not, for it was," he returned promptly. "Further, it was a frame-up chiefly
						against you. That brings me to the point that made me hurry here -- a point that had to
						have immediate explanation. It was a frame-up, yes -- but, honest, Mary, I framed you
						for your own good."
					"For my own good!" she exclaimed skeptically.
					"Exactly. Listen, Mary. I've got to repeat myself -- but I can't help that if I am to
						make myself clear. Your big idea in this secret marriage with Jack Morton has grown to
						be to keep Jack at work -- to do what no one else has ever been able to do, make a man
						out of him -- so that after a time, when the big blow-off comes and they find out who
						you are, you will have established yourself so thoroughly by the service you have
						rendered that the Mortons will have to overlook everything shady about your past and
						your part in this affair. That's the way you had it doped out to yourself, now, is n't
						it?"
					Mary did not answer.
					"That was your plan -- exactly. And your plan, all the big future you saw for yourself,
						was based  upon your making a man out of Jack. Mary, --
						I'm talking straight goods now, -- I saw you could never make a man out of Jack. Nobody
						could or can. The stuff's not there. I saw you were headed toward certain failure -- and
						wasting good months, and big chances, in trying to put your grand dream across. I told
						you all this and tried to talk you out of it, but you would n't listen to me. So I
						decided to try to prove my point by showing you the facts. I decided to frame you.
					"To-night, I let you stumble across, as if by accident, Jack chloroformed by grape
						juice and in the company of those ladies. I admit I helped lead Jack into that. But I
						hoped you would see it as the real thing, see how hopeless any dream was that was based
						on making a man of Jack -- and that you would quit the game right there. But my little
						act was a fizzle. Still, Mary," -- and the little lawyer's voice was persuasively
						emphatic, -- "even though Jack was led into this to-night, the picture you saw of him,
						that wine and woman stuff, is an honest-to-God picture of what Jack will be in a few
						months. Broadway has n't yet got him completely -- but Broadway is going to get him! I'm
						telling you, Mary!"
					Mary's face was expressionless. "You did n't come here merely to deliver that speech,
						Peter Loveman."
					"Naturally, there is something else." His round, large eyes regarded her meditatively;
						then he leaned  forward. "Mary, I'm going to lay all my
						cards on the table. First, here's a bit of a confession: I hung around Le Minuit, and
						heard your offer to Mr. Morton to straighten Jack out, and heard him turn you down flat,
						and saw him drive away with Jack."
					"Well?"
					"Was n't that just so much more evidence to show you that your big dream can never,
						never come true?" he argued, quietly, but with the driving force of the great lawyer
						that he was. "So I say again, for God's sake, drop it all! And, Mary, -- you'd never
						have been happy even if you had worked that game with the Mortons. You're too much the
						daughter of 'Gentleman Jim' Regan for that sort of life -- your father's blood would
						have sent you back to the old ways.
					"Listen, Mary, -- the sensible thing to do is for us all to cash in on this Morton
						affair, before it breaks. I've said most of this before, but I've got to say it again.
						Let me discover the secret marriage between you and Jack; I'll soak Mr. Morton hard for
						a detective bill, and give you a half of what he pays. And by playing the thing this
						way, I'll keep solid with Mr. Morton and will be in a position where I can milk him for
						a long time to come. And then, of course, you'll make him pay big for a divorce --
						Morton will want to hush the matter up as far as he can, and he'll want to keep details
						out of court. And since I'll be representing Mr. Morton, I can  put you wise to the very limit he'll pay. What you get there will be all
						your own; I'll get mine out of handling Mr. Morton's end. And that business all settled,
						and you with the name of Mrs. Jack Morton -- why, there's nothing big we could n't put
						across as team-mates! And everything safe -- and everything big! And a little later, if
						you wanted it, I could, by watching chances and playing the cards right, help you make a
						marriage that would be a headliner in regard to wealth and respectability and position.
						Don't you see it all!"
					She saw it, and it was a dazzling vision of its own kind. Moreover, she knew this
						shrewd little lawyer could bring it all to pass. And among other things his plan offered
						was the definite and immediate chance to strike vengefully at Mr. Morton, who an hour
						before had so coolly rebuffed her when, swayed by unaccustomed emotion, she had made him
						the proposal to devote herself to Jack.
					At length she spoke. "That was another good speech, Peter," she said quietly, "but you
						did n't come here merely to deliver that speech either. Just what is the big thing
						that's in your mind?"
					"Why, that you should drop your present game, instanter, and switch to something worth
						while."
					"That's not what brought you here between two and three o'clock in the morning," she
						insisted steadily.
					He shifted slightly. "It's like this, Mary," he said abruptly, changing from his
						persuasive tone -- "you  and I went into this thing
						together, and I hope we're going to stick it out together along the lines I've just
						suggested. But matters took such a twist with to-night's events that I had to know
						definitely, at once, whether you were going to work along with me."
					"And that's the question you really want answered?" 
					"It is. And I'm hoping your answer is going to be 'yes.'"
					"I do not know what I am going to do," she said quietly, her dark eyes fixed upon his
						large blue ones. "But whatever I do, I shall do alone and exactly as I please."
					He slowly wet his full, loose lips. "Is that final?"
					"It is."
					"You mean that you are going to leave me out of it."
					"I am not going to think of you one way or the other." She stood up. "If that is all
						you came for, I suggest you now say good-night."
					His soft hands gripped the arms of his chair. Fury flamed within him; words of menace
						surged to his lips. But Peter Loveman never had more self-possession than when his
						situation was most dangerous -- and dangerous he certainly now felt it to be. So as he
						rose he smiled with good-natured regret.
					"I'm sorry it's all off, Mary; it would have been big for us both. But you have the
						right to  do as you choose. Well, good luck to you -- and
						good-night."
					With a look of almost fatherly benignity, Loveman went out. Mary suspected that
						regretful, genial smile -- but she thought of it only for a moment, for the next instant
						her mind was on other things. She switched out her lights, and stepping to a window she
						looked out into the deep silence of the night.
					What should she do? At last she was alone face to face with her life's greatest crisis.
						She had played for big game -- for wealth and worldly position -- and she had played
						daringly -- and now, at the end, after all her time and bold dreams and care and
						cleverness, it seemed that she had lost, and lost finally, unalterably. And after all,
						even had she won, would the winning have been worth the while?...
					And then there was a resurgence of that self-confidence, that determination, which were
						such strong elements of her nature. Should she not make one last desperate effort to
						carry through her plan, despite them all? Her resentment toward Jack's cold, worldly
						father suddenly flamed high. Just to balk the older Morton she would like to save Jack
						and win out herself.
					But how might it be done? . . . Almost unconsciously her mind began to revert with
						nervous intensity to certain methods of that period spent under the influence of her
						father and later of her uncle Joe  -- that period of
						artful criminality that she had long thought of as forever ended. By use of her old
						skill she might so outwit Jack's father, might so involve him, that he would gladly come
						to terms.
					She stood there in the silent dark, thinking feverishly. 
				

				

				

					CHAPTER XXIV
					

					
						TWO PLEASANT GENTLEMEN
					



					WHEN Clifford saw Loveman leave the apartment house and cross
						rapidly to his cab, he waited to see no more. His next move, as he had planned it, was
						based upon conjecture, and it had to be executed without a lost moment. He ran back to
						his waiting taxi-cab, gave the chauffeur Loveman's address, and thrust a ten-dollar bill
						into the man's hands.
					"Keep the change, and forget the speed laws," Clifford exclaimed as he sprang in.
					Five minutes later the rocking machine turned into Loveman's street. Save for his own
						car, the street was empty. Not waiting for the machine to slow down, Clifford called
						"Beat it!" to the chauffeur, leaped to the curb and walked rapidly into Loveman's
						apartment house. At the end of the corridor a negro youth lay loosely a-sprawl and
						snoring on the telephone switchboard, and the elevator door stood open. The sight
						reassured Clifford on one point: he had beaten Loveman to his home -- that is, if
						Loveman's purpose had been to come home.
					Noiselessly, Clifford crossed to the stairway beside the elevator and ran up flight
						after flight, until he came breathlessly to the twelfth floor, the floor above  Loveman's studio apartment. He let himself through a door
						with a latch-key, and the next moment, sitting in the darkness, he had on the headpiece
						of a dictagraph whose wires ran down into the lofty studio which Loveman used as his
						library. Two or three minutes passed -- then he heard some one enter below -- then he
						heard a deep, gruff, unmistakable voice: -- 
					"God, Loveman -- thought you were never going to show up."
					His conjecture had been correct. There had been planned a prompt conference to follow
						that night's all-important undertaking.
					"Been held up, Bradley, -- everything's gone wrong!" Loveman's usual smooth voice was
						now more like a snarl.
					"Gone wrong!" exclaimed Bradley.
					"Yes, the whole dam' works!"
					"But how the hell, Loveman -- "
					"I can't explain here," Loveman snappily interrupted. "It's not safe. Clifford's got a
						dictagraph planted somewhere in this room."
					"The hell you say! But how do you know?"
					"He quoted something to-night which you and I had said -- something which we said when
						alone in this room."
					"Damn him!" growled Bradley. "Why did n't I go ahead, instead of minding you, and have
						him bumped off when I wanted to!" And then: "Let's look around and rip out his damned
						machine."



					

					"There's no telling where his wires run. Besides, there's not time. There's a chance
						that he may be trailing me here -- "
					"Come on, then," snapped the brusque voice of Bradley. "If he comes up, let's croak
						him. Leave your door open and we can pull him in here and do the job. Then you can say
						he got into your flat and you shot him in self-defense, thinking he was a burglar."
					Voices ceased; footsteps crossed the room below. Removing the annunciator, Clifford
						slipped out into the hallway and cautiously peered down the well of the stairway. On
						Loveman's landing he saw two shadowy, crouching figures, and in the hand of the lawyer
						he saw a dim something which he knew to be a pistol. Instinctively he drew his automatic
						and waited.
					Five minutes passed -- ten minutes. The figures below still maintained their moveless
						ambuscade. Every moment Clifford expected them to turn their suspicion and their search
						upwards; in that event, with that pair in their present mood, it would mean bullets to
						the finish. Clifford did not wish such a turn to the situation, even were he to come out
						the victor; he wanted to carry this case much further, to have much more direct evidence
						of the practices of the pair, before the end should come. But he held himself tensely
						ready.
					But his foresight and quick action had saved him an encounter: the pair thought only of
						the possibility  that Clifford might have followed
						Loveman, and never that he might have preceded Loveman here. Presently, a low voice
						ascended to him -- Bradley's. 
					"Guess he's not trailed you, Loveman. Come on, I want the dope on what happened
						to-night. Clifford can't have your whole joint wired; let's go into your bathroom -- he
						can't have touched that."
					They withdrew and a moment later Clifford heard a door close. He slipped down, waited a
						space at Loveman's door, and then, after a few moments' manipulation with a skeleton
						key, he noiselessly opened it and softly stepped inside. The hallway was dark, but at
						one end was an open door from which light streamed. Toward this he slipped with a cat's
						tread, and peeped in. He saw the bathroom, as large as an ordinary New York bedroom,
						finished in marble and white-tile, and in it sat little Loveman and the big-chested
						Bradley.
					In a low voice Loveman briefly outlined the fiasco of their careful scheme at Le
						Minuit. Bradley swore -- and Clifford was the chief object of his guttural fury.
					"What we goin' to do next?"
					"I've done one thing already. I beat it straight to Mary Regan."
					"What for?"
					"She's too good a thing to lose if we can hold her; so I tried to con her into
						believing I'd framed her for her own good. But that's not the real reason  -- the big reason." Loveman's usually smooth voice was now
						nervous and tense. "Don't you see the fix she's got me in? She knows enough about me to
						get me disbarred, if she cared to talk -- and perhaps get me a prison sentence on top of
						it -- and perhaps get you sent away, too. So I simply had to have her on our side, if I
						could get her."
					"Well, what did she say?"
					"She turned me down cold -- said she was through with me."
					Again Bradley swore. "Well, if you're afraid of her, why don't you beat her to that big
						stiff Morton -- tell him who she is and what she's done? You can get away with it."
					"Telling Morton has got to be my last move. It's too dangerous -- I might implicate
						myself."
					"Well, what you going to do?"
					"My chief business has got to be Mary Regan," Loveman answered grimly -- "fixing her so
						she can't hurt me, and doing it quick."
					"You mean croaking her?"
					"That raw stuff don't go with me, Bradley. I'm not so tired that I'm willing to run the
						risk of sitting in the electric chair up at Sing Sing."
					"There's a lot of things besides being croaked that can happen to a woman in this
						town," said Bradley. "The way that Mrs. Dormer case was worked ain't so bad; it's always
						good for a repeat. Mysterious disappearance until the danger is over. You can always
						handle a woman so she'll  have nothing much to say about
						the time she was missing."
					"Too risky."
					"How about smearing her? That would help some, if it was done proper."
					"I don't know what it's going to be yet -- but it's going to be something mighty soon."
						He spoke with nervous incisiveness. "With you and Hilton and Nan Burdette and Nina
						Cordova, there'll be plenty of people. Your first job will be to keep Mary Regan covered
						night and day, so we can act the minute we're ready. I'll have something doped out by
						morning, and I'll let you know. Come on, let's see if there is n't a cold bottle in the
						ice-chest."
					Clifford stole swiftly and noiselessly out. Fifteen minutes later he was calling his
						name through Mary Regan's door; and after a ten minutes' wait he was in her presence.
						During those minutes he had done much thinking.
					"Do you still control the lease to the apartment you had in the Mordona?" he asked
						quietly.
					She was bewildered. "Yes. Jack and I took it until the first of October. Why?"
					"Then you still have a key to the apartment?"
					"Yes."
					"How much baggage do you have here? Not much, I hope."
					"A steamer trunk, and a bag."
					"Pack them. In half an hour you move back to the Mordona."



					
					"Back to the Mordona!" she exclaimed. "What for?"
					He told her something of the formless danger in which she stood. "To be safe for the
						present, you've got to be where no one will find you. And the Mordona is about the last
						place any one will look for you. I'll get a car from Headquarters to move you, and
						you'll leave no trail from here."
					There was rapid packing -- a silent carrying-down of baggage -- a ride through the
						night in a car that could be traced from no taxi station -- and Mary Regan was once more
						in the apartment in the Mordona, where, months before, her glowing dream had changed to
						a sober, patient, cautious struggle to re-make Jack Morton into a man.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XXV
					

					
						A FATHER'S HOPE
					

					THE next day the first open move in this struggle was made -- a
						minor development, perhaps signifying no more in the unfolding of events than their
						delay. Clifford learned of it when he dropped into the Grand Alcazar the following
						evening on the chance of finding Uncle George.
					"Hello, son -- sit in with me on a little drink of this here wine drowned in seltzer,"
						said the old man. And when Clifford was seated, he drawled on, a solemn eye on his
						glass. "Son, I've been tapering fast toward prohibition. In another month I'll be a
						bone-dry state. But I'm such a weak creature of habit, son, that I know I'll just keep
						on tapering. I'm a worried man, and here's what's worrying me: after I've reached water,
						and am still tapering, what am I going to drink next? What's the answer? I tell you
						what, son, it's an awful problem I got to face single-handed and single-livered and all
						alone in the world -- this getting good so sudden and so fast that I can't stop myself.
						Why, man, when I hit heaven, I'm afraid I'll have up so much speed that I'll shoot clean
						through."
					Clifford made no response; he knew none was expected. He gave solemn gaze for solemn
						gaze.



					

					Then Uncle George permitted his bald left eyelid to droop in a slight wink.
					"Son, I been doing a little private blood-hounding -- in my own special delicate
						motor-truck fashion. The czar and the little czarovitch have fled from the capital to
						Siberia."
					"Meaning who?"
					"Meaning Mr. Morton and one freshly recovered son."
					Clifford was at once interested. "You talked with them?"
					"Yes. Over at the Biltmore. The father don't suspect how good I am -- therefore he does
						n't mind chinning with me a bit when we meet."
					"Where are they going? -- what are they going to do? Did he tell you?"
					"Son, my intellect may not be what it once was, but a gentleman does n't have to tell
						me anything for me to know what he's going to do. We talked baseball; I was willing to
						put two bits on the Giants to win the pennant next season -- from which I learned that
						Mr. Morton was going to beat it far from the night-blooming anemone of Broadway and the
						tender folk-songs of the cabarets -- and that he was going to give his only offspring
						the advantage of his direct, undivided, and unsleeping personal attention."
					Clifford nodded. This fitted in with Mr. Morton's determination announced the night
						before in front of Le Minuit when he had refused Mary's offer --  his cool decision that he was now going to handle Jack. Well, he was a
						master at directing men, at bending them to his will; now that he had set himself to the
						task, perhaps he might also really manage Jack.
					Though Mr. Morton was out of the city, Clifford privately kept watch on Mary, half
						expecting that her pride and her temperish self-confidence would get the better of her
						caution and impel her into that vaguely hinted action against Jack's father. He tried to
						think out what course might be brewing in her mind. He remembered that Mr. Morton,
						ignorant of her true relationship to Jack, had tried to make love to her -- the passing
						love of a worldly man; and he knew that Mary was capable of playing any part. She might,
						in her desire to even matters with Mr. Morton, and reckless of herself and her own name,
						lead him on, always eluding him, until -- well, there was no guessing what Mary, bitter
						and reckless, might attempt. But whatever she might try, she would carry through.
					Also -- with the help of Lieutenant Jimmie Kelly, and the confidential aid of
						Commissioner Thorne -- he privately watched Bradley and Loveman, alert for signs of
						attempt to carry out their self-protecting scheme against Mary. But Mary's hiding was a
						temporary check alike to herself and the two men, and the next development in this
						complicated human drama was to have its inception in another quarter.
					Uneventful weeks passed; spring grew into summer;  and
						then one evening Clifford was surprised with a message from Mr. Morton asking him to
						call at once at the Biltmore. Clifford went to the Biltmore, wondering what lay behind
						this unexpected summons. Mr. Morton admitted him to his sitting-room and asked him to be
						seated.
					There was a litter of mail upon the table -- evidently an accumulation of
						correspondence that had not been forwarded. As Clifford sat down his eyes were caught
						and sharply arrested by an open letter. He recognized the writing -- it was Mary's; and
						almost before he knew what he was doing he had read this fragment: -- 
					
						
							I have been thinking your suggestion all over -- and possibly, possibly, if it were repeated -- 
						
					
					Mr. Morton, who had followed Clifford's eyes, reached sharply forward, and snatched up
						the letter.
					"Pardon my seeing it -- I could n't help it," said Clifford. And then: "I remember you
						offered to take the writer of that letter on a very private cruise. I suppose she has
						now consented?"
					"That's none of your business!" snapped Mr. Morton, pocketing the letter.
					So, then, Mary did have some plan under way!
					"Mr. Clifford," Mr. Morton said abruptly, then paused. Clifford now perceived that the
						usually composed and masterful financier was in a state of nerves which he was trying
						his utmost to control. "Mr. Clifford, some time ago I asked you to help me  with my son. I have sent for you to ask you that
						again."
					"Help you!" Clifford wanted a bit of information on a certain point, so he pretended a
						greater ignorance than was actually his. "Why, I supposed you had taken Jack off, braced
						him up, and brought about the marriage you once told me was your chief desire for Jack
						-- to Miss Maisie Jones. I supposed Jack and she were on their honeymoon."
					"That affair is all off," the father said briefly.
					"What! Definitely?"
					"Her aunt wrote saying that Maisie no longer cared for Jack. I wrote to Maisie, and she
						confirmed it. She was unchangeable."
					So, then, Maisie Jones had fulfilled her promise to Mary.
					"To repeat," Mr. Morton went on, "I have sent for you to ask you again to help me with
						Jack."
					"My answer now must be the same as when you asked help of me before: I can't say until
						I know the situation. And even then I must reserve the privilege to act as I think
						best."
					"All right. Have it your own way."
					"First, tell me what has happened since you took charge of Jack that night at Le
						Minuit?"
					"I took him to a mountain hotel in Maine, hoping that away from all his old associates
						I could manage him more easily. But he kept me awake night and day, and even then he was
						always eluding me and finding road-houses where the prohibition law did n't  exist. Yesterday he got away altogether. I know he's
						somewhere in New York. I want you to help me find him."
					"I thought you had Mr. Bradley retained for such service."
					"I have, and I've already notified him. But I don't trust Mr. Bradley as far as I once
						did. That's why I'm asking you to help. Will you?"
					Clifford felt the irony of it -- that he should once more be called in to save the man
						Mary Regan had married instead of himself. But he nodded.
					"That may be easy enough if Jack is in any of the regular joy-joints. But it will be
						hard if any of the sharps have got him in tow. Come on."
					Leading the way, Clifford began a careful search of the gayer restaurants of Broadway.
						He picked up Lieutenant Jimmie Kelly. The search was rapid, for it had not to go beyond
						the entrances; Clifford knew the door-men and managers of every resort, and Jack Morton
						was a well-known figure to all. To them Clifford put the same question -- "Young Mr.
						Morton in here?" -- and all answered honestly, having a very substantial fear of
						Clifford and Jimmie Kelly, and an earnest desire to retain their licenses.
					At length, toward one o'clock, they came to Le Minuit; and of the proprietor, Monsieur
						Le Bain, Clifford asked the usual question. Monsieur Le Bain replied that Jack was
						there, and led the way through the din of his "authentic Hawaiian orchestra" and the
						hilarity of his hundreds of pleasure-fevered  guests, down
						a little corridor off his "imperial ballroom." He started to open the door at the end of
						this little hallway, -- the door to his most exclusive private room, -- but Clifford
						checked his hand.
					"Need n't bother, Le Bain, -- you can go on back," said Clifford. "And, Jimmie," -- to
						the little lieutenant, as Le Bain went gliding away, -- "I wish you'd hang around, where
						you won't be noticed much, so you'll be handy if needed."
					"All right, Bob," returned Lieutenant Jimmie.
					Clifford opened the door and pressed the elder Morton ahead of him into a dining-room
						of gray-and-gold. What he saw was almost the same as he had seen in Le Minuit many weeks
						before: here were Nina Cordova, Nan Burdette, Hilton, and Jack -- the only difference
						being that Jack, then in a stupor, was now joyously maudlin.
					"Why, h'lo, dad," he said, swaying up, a handsome, flushed, boyish figure. "Welcome
						home! Pull up chair, have li'l' ole drink, 'n' meet m' frien's. 'N' there's Clifford --
						good ole scout Clifford -- meet m' frien's. Everybody have 'nother li'l' ole drink."
					The other three had risen. "I'll take it as a favor if you'll all say good-night," Mr.
						Morton said shortly. "I want to speak to my son."
					"So do we," returned Nina Cordova in her most pertly charming manner, which she figured
						as irresistible. "Jack invited us to his little party, and we're not going to insult the
						dear boy by walking out on him."



					
					"Get out -- all of you!" Mr. Morton's jaws snapped together.
					"See here, we don't stand for that line of talk, and we're not going," bristled
						Hilton.
					Clifford caught Hilton by the wrist, and gave the arm a twist that made the man drop
						sidewise to one knee and groan. "You are all going, and, Hilton, you go first," -- and
						he thrust him through the door. He turned to Nan Burdette, and the star of the
						long-faded "Orange Blossoms." "If you two want to avoid trouble," he said shortly,
						"you'll fol- low Mr. Hilton right out."
					They glowered at Clifford, but started to obey. "See here," hiccoughed young Morton,
						"'f my frien's go, I go too," -- and he swayed toward the door.
					But Clifford sharply closed the door upon the pair, blocked Jack's way, and laid a
						detaining hand upon Jack's shoulder. "Stay with me, Jack," he said, "and we'll have that
						little old drink together."
					"Don' wan' drink with you. Goin' with m' frien's."
					A stubborn, vicious look had come into Jack's face, a look that Clifford knew meant
						trouble. "Just one little old drink, Jack, and then you can go with your friends."
					Jack regarded Clifford's impeding figure, and grinned cunningly. "All ri' -- jus' one
						drink."
					"He's already had too damned much," growled the elder Morton.



					

					Clifford gave the father an imperative, knowing look, pushed Jack down into his chair,
						and pressed a button. "Send Monsieur Le Bain," he said to the answering waiter; and to
						Jack: "I'm going to order the drinks, Jack, and we're going to switch to high-balls --
						and we're going to see if this dump has some Scotch that's really Scotch."
					As Le Bain appeared, Clifford stepped quickly to the door, spoke in a low voice, and
						returned to the table. Presently Le Bain himself entered with three glasses which he set
						down in careful order before the men, and then withdrew.
					"Here's how," said Clifford, and sipped his glass. Jack tossed his down and rose
						unsteadily.
					"Now, guess I'll go find m' frien's," he declared. 
					"Not yet, Jack," -- and Clifford pushed him again back into place. "There's going to be
						one more round, and it's on you. I gave Le Bain the order."
					Mr. Morton, not touching his glass, sharply watched the two. Jack grinned cunningly at
						Clifford: then his face became vacuous, heavy; and then he slumped forward, and head and
						shoulders lay inertly among the wine-glasses and the dishes of the interrupted
						supper.
					"What's happened to him?" the father asked sharply.
					"Doped."
					"Doped? What for?"



					

					"Did n't you see there was no handling him in the mood he was in? Le Bain keeps his own
						knock-out drops for use on customers who become obstreperous -- and I ordered him to fix
						Jack's drink. The dose is light -- it won't hurt him." Clifford abruptly changed the
						subject. "Well, you've got Jack. What are you going to do with him?"
					Mr. Morton did not answer; his proud, powerful face, now pale, was fixed upon his son.
						Clifford also shifted his gaze to the huddled figure. Despite everything, Clifford
						really liked this good-natured piece of driftwood which washed so irresponsibly upon
						this great tide of pleasure. But what he felt most strongly at this moment was the
						ironical caprice of Destiny, which had enlarged so minor and will-less a figure, a mere
						pawn in this big human game, into so all-important a factor in Mary Regan's life, and
						his own -- and in the designs of many persons.
					Clifford turned to the father. "Well -- what next?" he prompted.
					"I wish to God I knew!" Mr. Morton burst out, his reserve suddenly leaving him. "See
						what he's come to! See what he's done to himself!"
					"He did n't do it -- at least not all," Clifford said quietly.
					"Who did, then?"
					"Several persons -- but chiefly his father."
					"His father!" An angry flush tinted the older man's cheeks.



					

					"Jack was not unusually bad or weak, and he was naturally most likable. He would have
						turned out well enough if his father had trained him right from the start and placed a
						man's responsibilities --"
					"I don't want to hear any damned sermon!" the other interrupted. "What's done, is done!
						I've got to face the present. I've done all I can to save him -- and I've failed!"
					He paused, then went on in savage desperation. "And if anything is going to be done,
						it's got to be done quick! I've controlled him, to an extent, by controlling his money.
						But a fool aunt of his died the other day, and left him a legacy of two hundred thousand
						which automatically becomes his on his twenty-fifth birthday -- and he'll be twenty-five
						in a month. If he's not got hold of before he gets that money, then the last chance is
						gone!"
					He was silent a moment. Then came another burst, even more desperate.
					"God, can't you see what it means to me? -- my only son! -- all the plans I've built on
						him! -- and him come to this! For God's sake, is n't there anything that can be done to
						save him!"
					Clifford regarded him steadily. But there had suddenly begun a wild pounding of his
						heart.
					"There is just one thing that might possibly save your son."
					"What's that?" the other cried quickly.
					Clifford hesitated, while the struggle which had so swiftly arisen within himself
						fought itself out.



					

					In spite of all that had happened, a dream had persisted in him. If he spoke the
						thought that was in his mind, and if that suggestion were accepted and carried to a
						successful conclusion, it would mean the end, forever, of this persistent dream....
					And yet -- there was that plan and purpose that had guided his attitude toward Mary
						Regan these many months: that Mary should be allowed to play her hand out -- that Life
						should test her.
					And then, in a flash, he was seeing again the letter he had glimpsed when he had
						entered Mr. Morton's room at the Biltmore -- that letter with its unmistakable
						intimation. A flame of anger went searingly through him. Well, given into his hands was
						a method of putting Mary to the uttermost test -- of proving who and what she was: and a
						method of bringing this whole matter to a head -- for Mary -- for everybody.
					"What is it, man?" Mr. Morton repeated.
					"You would n't pay the price," said Clifford.
					"If I could get results I'd pay any price!"
					"I'm not so sure you would, but I'll try you." Clifford stepped to the little wall
						telephone, done in gray-and-gold to match the room, and asked for Mary's number at the
						Mordona. After a long wait Mary's voice sounded on the wire.
					"This is Clifford," he said. "I want to see you at once at Le Minuit -- very important.
						Ask Le Bain to show you where I am.... All right."



					
					"Who is the party?" demanded Mr. Morton when Clifford had hung up.
					"I think it best for you not to know until the party comes," replied Clifford. "The
						party should be here in half an hour."

				
				

				

					CHAPTER XXVI
					

					
						HOW MARY'S DREAM CAME TRUE
					

					A TINY dressing-room opened off this very private supper-room, and
						into this they moved Jack and drew the curtains. Then the two men sat down and in a
						silence which had as its background the laughter and the wild, harsh dance music
						without, they smoked for half an hour -- Clifford wondering how this pale, grim man was
						going to bear himself, and how, and as what, Mary would emerge from the double situation
						toward which she was hurrying.
					Presently there was a knock. "That's our party," said Clifford, and crossed and opened
						the door.
					But instead of Mary, there entered Bradley and behind him little Peter Loveman. Both
						halted in seeming surprise. Instinctively Clifford knew that Hilton had sent quick
						warning to the pair.
					"Been on the track of your son, Mr. Morton," explained Bradley; "and we just trailed
						him here. Was going to shoot you word we'd located him."
					"You're right on the job," Morton said curtly. "But since I have him in hand, I guess I
						won't need you gentlemen. Good-night."
					Loveman stepped quickly forward; Clifford could guess the nervous fear that prompted
						the keen-witted little man to want to be at hand in what he  sensed as a moment of peril to himself and the delicately cately balanced edifice of
						his schemes.
					"Pardon me, Mr. Morton," he said firmly, in a voice of sympathetic concern, "but I'm
						sure we might be of some service, and should remain."
					"I'm giving orders here," snapped Mr. Morton. "Good-night!"
					They stood a moment, Morton's cold gray eyes commandingly fixed on them; then they
						backed toward the door. Clifford thought rapidly: These two, leaving here, might stumble
						across Mary Regan, so long searched for by them, and prepared as he knew they always
						were to act on the instant of discovery, they might somehow manage to put their daring
						plan, whatever it might be, into instant execution. That risk must be avoided.
					"Wait!" Clifford called sharply to them. "Mr. Morton, I prefer to have them
						remain."
					Mr. Morton stared. "Just as you like."
					"Loveman, Bradley, your request is granted," said Clifford.
					And then a further possibility flashed upon Clifford. Since Hilton had communicated
						with Loveman and Bradley, what more likely than that they should still be able to
						communicate? -- which would mean that Hilton was close at hand on the lookout. And if
						that were true, what more likely than that when Mary drove up -- 
					Before this thought had completed itself Clifford had started out. But even as he laid
						hand upon the  knob there was a knock. He swung open the
						door, and Mary, a light summer cloak thrown loosely about her shoulders, stepped into
						the room.
					"I'm here -- what is it?" she said as she entered.
					"Miss Gilmore!" exclaimed Mr. Morton, using the name by which he had best known
						her.
					She glanced swiftly and keenly from one to the other of the three unexpected men. Then
						she wheeled upon Clifford.
					"What's this you've led me into?" she demanded -- "a plant?"
					"Bradley and Loveman are uninvited, and were not here when I telephoned," he explained.
						Then he went on in a quiet, dominating, driving voice. "I did n't tell you whom you were
						really to meet, and I did n't tell Mr. Morton who was coming, for the reason that I felt
						you might each refuse to see the other. Pardon my subterfuge. But I sent for you, Miss
						Gilmore, because Mr. Morton wished to talk to you about Jack."
					Mr. Morton flushed wrathfully. "I talk to her about Jack! After the letter I've had
						from her!"
					"You'll forget that letter!" Clifford said sharply. "You put this affair in my hands --
						and your chief concern is Jack."
					He turned to Mary, and looked at her squarely, meaningly.
					"You've had your dreams -- big dreams. I don't need to remind you what they are. And
						you've worked to have those dreams come true."



					

					He turned back on Morton, and spoke in the same dominating voice. "And you, Mr. Morton -- I told you a little while ago that there was just one thing
						that might save Jack. Miss Gilmore here is the only person who has in recent years had
						any influence on Jack. For a time she had him working and behaving. You recall her offer
						that night to take Jack back to that Riverside Drive apartment and make a man of him.
						You turned her offer down -- you said you could manage your son -- and you've seen the
						result." He spoke more dominantly, more drivingly. "That was your big chance. No matter
						what you may think of Miss Gilmore, she is still your big chance, and your only
						chance."
					Clifford paused and waited. Mary, very pale, gazed at him, her lips apart. Morton, his
						proud, masterful face also pale, stared fixedly at Mary, but said nothing.
					"Well," Clifford prompted him sharply, "here's your last chance. Speak up."
					"First of all," said Mr. Morton, his voice steady with an obviously great effort and
						his gray eyes now piercing, "I'd like to ask Miss Gilmore a few questions. Miss Gilmore,
						how did you and Jack --"
					"One moment!" cut in Peter Loveman, stepping quickly between Mary and Mr. Morton, and
						seizing the latter's arm. Clifford had seen a quick fear leap into the little man's
						face, and he knew the little lawyer's impulse was to be first at the explaining and save
						himself if possible. "I can answer what I  know to be your
						questions," Loveman said rapidly. "That's one reason I wanted to hunt you up tonight
						with Mr. Bradley, because I've just learned some things."
					"Loveman!" snapped Clifford, swiftly drawing his automatic and aiming it over Mary's
						shoulder. The little lawyer turned, and all the color left the face, ruddied by high
						living. "Loveman, Miss Gilmore and Mr. Morton have the floor!"
					Loveman, dropping Morton's arm, stepped from between the two. Mary had not seen what
						argument had brought about the lawyer's subsidence; her eyes, which had shifted to Mr.
						Morton, had remained steadily upon him, waiting.
					"Mr. Morton, you have the floor," Clifford prompted him.
					Mr. Morton seemed to swallow something -- something so large that it would hardly go
						down. Then he spoke.
					"Miss Gilmore, I've done all I can to save Jack -- but I've failed. The Broadway life
						seems to have got him at last. Here is what he seems to have come to." He drew apart the
						curtains of the little dressing-room, revealing the huddled form of Jack, and then let
						the curtains swing together. "As Mr. Clifford has said, I see that there is only one
						chance left, and that you are the only chance. Will you be willing to undertake what you
						offered to do that night down in front of this café?"
					The moment of Mary's great test -- her great 
						opportunity, if she saw it as such -- had arrived. Clifford watched her -- waiting --
						his whole being taut. Her face had become a mask; she looked with cold, direct eyes upon
						the man on the adroit winning of whose favor she had for months striven to build her
						great worldly dreams.
					"I suppose you mean undertake it on the conditions that were then mentioned," she said
						quietly -- "that it is to be what you once termed the 'usual Riverside Drive affair'?
						That we are to be Mr. and Mrs. Grayson?"
					"Of course, I'll make it worth your while."
					"No, thank you," she said quietly.
					"But I will give you any present allowance you may desire," he urged, "and will make
						any permanent settlement upon you that is in reason."
					"I do not care to run --"
					"But, Mary -- Miss Gilmore," gently interrupted Loveman. This affair was taking an
						amazingly different turn from what he had expected. After all, bewildering as it was,
						matters were falling out in a way to make his original plan seem once more possible.
						"Mr. Morton's offer is fair. Take it." Mary did not heed him, but spoke directly at Mr.
						Morton. "I do not care to undertake to conduct a sanitarium for one person for pay --
						and then have the patient removed as soon as a cure is effected."
					"But if you were willing to do it before, why not now? I don't understand!"



					

					"It is no concern of mine if you do not understand." 
					She spoke calmly, coldly. Clifford's eyes were fixed upon her, trying to pierce her
						brain and heart. Morton stared at her discomfited, desperation growing in his face.
						There was another moment of silence, against the background of the dance music which
						twanged stridently without.
					Mary spoke again. "If that completes what you wish to say to me, Mr. Morton, then
						good-night." She turned to leave. Her hand was on the knob, when Morton spoke up, his
						voice now husky.
					"Another minute, Miss Gilmore!" She turned about. "Miss Gilmore, you are my last chance
						-- and Jack's last chance." He spoke more rapidly. "I've simply got to have you -- you
						understand. You must have had some real kind of attachment for Jack or you'd never have
						offered what you did. And certainly Jack likes you or you'd never have had the influence
						over him that you've proved you possess. Listen -- let's consider it all from another
						angle. Miss Gilmore, when you were at the Grantham as 'Mrs. Gardner' you told me you had
						a husband -- but excuse me, I do not believe it. Miss Gilmore" -- he halted, there was a
						super-gulp, then he went on -- " Miss Gilmore, if you are free, I want you to marry
						Jack."
					Clifford, Loveman, and Bradley, equally astounded, gazed at Mary. She seemed to be able
						only to stare at Mr. Morton. 



					



					"Whatever I may have said or thought against you, I'll say this in your favor," Mr.
						Morton continued, rapidly as before -- "that you were so discreet in your affair with
						Jack, you kept it all so secret, that I'm sure there will be no scandal. We'll not have
						that to face. So I ask you, as a favor, to marry him."
					Clifford, still dazed by the swift manner in which his plan had leaped beyond itself,
						breathlessly held his gaze on Mary. Her dark eyes were wild, her lips loosely parted --
						the figure of one bewildered beyond realization of what had happened. Then she caught a
						sharp breath and high excitement came into her face. At that same instant Clifford saw
						the magnitude of what had suddenly been opened to her -- and he saw that she was seeing
						it, too. At last, by a strange twist of circumstances and of Clifford's attempt to guide
						events, she had won! Won all that was included in her original plan!
						And most amazing of all, what she had thought to get as the reward of scheming, she was
						now being begged to accept as a favor -- wealth, worldly position, and all that each
						could bring!
					And Clifford, in this high moment, realized another thing. All these months of her big
						dreams, of her indomitable and skillful scheming, she had had one great, ever-present
						fear -- that some one might expose her identity and her past, and bring to instant
						nothingness her magnificent dreams. How she had fought exposure -- desperately and
						daringly,  with her all of cleverness! And now, if she
						were only moderately careful, she need no longer fear exposure -- and when exposure
						came, if it did, she would have so established herself that it could no longer injure
						her.
					Events, Clifford's efforts, the working-out of conflicting human impulses, the
						operations of that erratic thing which we call chance or fate or destiny -- all these
						could not have combined more perfectly to be her friend -- could not have combined
						better to bring her the worldly substance of her daring dreams.
					"You'll do it, won't you?" prompted Mr. Morton.
					Mary did not speak at once. She was even more pale than before; she was breathing
						rapidly, almost panting, and her eyes were even more staringly wide. Clifford, his heart
						pounding, wondered at her prolonged silence -- wondered feverishly just what was passing
						in that bold, daring, worldly mind, which he had found to be so many different
						minds.
					She turned and gave Clifford a long, direct look -- a bewildered, almost startled look.
						Then she sharply caught her breath, and slowly wheeling she moved a step nearer Mr.
						Morton.
					"Mr. Morton," she began in a low, strained voice, "I want to tell you something -- I
						want to tell you everything -- "
					"Stop!" came a frantic cry from Loveman -- and Clifford again saw fear in Loveman's
						large, protuberant eyes.





					

					In an instant what had been a bewildered tableau became a whirl of activity. Bradley's
						right hand darted for the electric-light switch, and before Clifford could move there
						was a click and the room was in darkness. A shrill two notes, which Clifford knew to be
						a signal, sounded from Bradley's lips. Clifford sprang toward where he had last seen
						Bradley, and collided with that burly figure with so great an impact that both went
						crashing to the floor, Clifford on top.
					Clifford had not drawn his automatic; he wanted no shooting affray -- not in this
						darkness where bullets would be impartial and irresponsible. But instinct told him
						Bradley's probable first tactic; and he reached for Bradley's right hand, and
						fortunately caught the wrist. Sure enough, the right hand was jerking out a heavy
						pistol. With both hands Clifford seized the weapon, and tried to twist it from the
						other's hand; and grunting, twisting, the two old enemies fought in the darkness.
					Clifford heard the door open and sharply close, heard Mary cry out -- and then heard
						another struggle, with Mary gasping. He gave a desperate wrench, and the pistol was his:
						he did not then know that his comparatively easy victory over the powerful Bradley was
						over a half-dazed man -- that his catapultic leap had driven the falling Bradley's head
						against the corner of the table. Raising the pistol, held club-wise, Clifford twice
						struck at where Bradley's head should be. At the second blow 
						

							 LOVEMAN WAS GRIPPING HER LEFT ARM, AND HILTON HAD HER
								STRUGGLING RIGHT ARM IN A TWISTING CLUTCH 

						
						
						 Bradley's grappling arms relaxed, and he was suddenly
						limp.
					Clifford sprang to his feet, fumbled for the switch, found it, and turned it on. Out of
						the blackness there leaped before Clifford's eyes the other struggle, Mary Regan its
						center, her cloak torn loose and slipping from one shoulder. Loveman was gripping her
						left arm, and Hilton had her struggling right arm in a twisting clutch. A tiny bright
						something flashed in Hilton's right hand and made a stab at the white arm he held.
					But even as this picture was revealed, Clifford sprang toward Hilton; while Mr. Morton
						blinking from the darkness, started, bewildered, toward the two. "Look out!" warningly
						cried Loveman -- but too late, for as the bright fang touched Mary's arm, Clifford's
						fist caught Hilton under the jaw. Hilton, fairly lifted from his feet, went spinning and
						fell in a loose heap. Clifford whirled upon Loveman, but Loveman was backing away, a
						pasty smile on his full face, and his hands held up.
					"I'm not doing a thing, Bob," gasped the little man -- "honest, not a thing!"
					"Better keep on doing it!" said Clifford, and blew his whistle.
					"What's -- what's happened?" panted Mary.
					"Nothing -- except some parties have just tried to kidnap you, first trying to shoot a
						hypo into you."
					"Kidnap me! What for?"



					

					"To shut you up -- get you out of the way -- later, to frame you to suit their own
						purpose. But you're bleeding!" Clifford whipped out a handkerchief and bound the arm.
						Then he picked up from the floor the syringe that had fallen from Hilton's hand and
						examined it. "It's still loaded, so you got nothing more than a scratch of the
						needle."
					At this moment Jimmie Kelly entered, answering Clifford's whistle. With Jimmie's help
						Clifford put handcuffs first upon Loveman and then upon Hilton and Bradley, who had both
						begun to revive.
					"For the present, we'll line 'em up against the wall," said Clifford -- which they did.
						"Later we can decide what to do with them."
					"But what's all this about?" demanded Mr. Morton.
					"Explanations can wait until later," returned Clifford. "The first thing is your
						business with Miss Gilmore. Miss Gilmore, I believe you started to tell us
						something."
					Once more Clifford looked at Mary keenly -- back again in that mood of palpitant
						suspense as to what lay in her heart -- as to what she was about to say and do -- she
						who this moment held her dreamworld in her hands! Morton, silent, awaited her speech.
						From the wall Loveman, Bradley, and Hilton looked on in varying degrees of fear,
						chagrin, and glowering wrath.
					When at length Mary spoke, she spoke quietly. "The first thing I wish to tell you, Mr.
						Morton, is  comparatively of no importance. I wrote you
						that letter, yes. That was weeks ago. I wrote it the very night you refused to entrust
						Jack to me. I was angry. I was determined you should suffer, too. I was going to lead
						you on -- get you caught in a predicament that would make you writhe -- and then would
						come public humiliation."
					"What kind of a predicament?" asked Mr. Morton.
					"It does n't matter now. But I had my plan -- and I think I could have made it work.
						You got only that one letter, Mr. Morton. That was because, when I calmed down, I
						changed my mind. I did not want to do what I had planned to do."
					Somehow -- though Mary Regan could mean nothing in his life -- this statement brought
						great relief to Clifford.
					She went on in the same quiet voice. "The rest of what I have to tell you is of more
						importance. My name is not Miss Gilmore nor Mrs. Gardner, and never was. My name is Mary
						Regan. My father was 'Gentleman Jim' Regan, a confidence-man; I've helped my Uncle Joe
						Russell, another confidence-man. I've been something of a confidence-woman, a crook, in
						the past. Now I'm what you'd probably call an adventuress."
					"What!" exclaimed Mr. Morton.
					Clifford blinked at her, hardly believing what he was hearing. She had feared exposure
						-- she had fought to ward it off -- and now that she had won  all that she had ever dreamed of winning, here she was quietly exposing
						herself!
					"I met your son," she went on. "I saw the chance to get something I wanted through
						marrying him. So I married him."
					"What -- you are already married to Jack!" ejaculated Mr. Morton. "Why -- why -"
					"It does n't sound believable, I know. You once called the engagement and wedding rings
						fakes, which I wore as Mrs. Grayson. I have them with me." From a bag which hung from
						her wrist she took two rings and handed them to him. "You may look at them. They are
						both engraved."
					He glanced at the engraving within the golden circles.
					"Married!" he repeated.
					"I have been your daughter-in-law all the time you believed me Jack's mistress. I made
						him keep the marriage secret. Jack knows nothing about who I really am. If the marriage
						became public there was the danger of you and Jack learning I was Mary Regan; I did n't
						want this to become known until I had made myself indispensable, and, then you'd have to
						accept me. That's why I tried to make Jack settle down and go to work. It was all part
						of my game."
					"So -- you're a crook!" breathed Morton, dumbfounded. 
					She went on in her even, controlled voice. "Also it -- was part of my game to break off
						the affair between  Jack and Maisie Jones -- you remember
						that time at the Grantham."
					" What -- you were behind Maisie Jones's action!"
					"I told her that I was married to Jack, and that we had to keep the marriage secret.
						And so she wrote you, breaking the engagement. She did that to help Jack -- and help me;
						she did n't know me, did n't understand me, therefore she overestimated me and believed
						I could make a strong man out of Jack and could make him happy. For that part of what I
						did, even though it was trickery, I am glad. Maisie Jones is too good for Jack; he would
						have broken her heart. I saved her from life-long misery."
					Mr. Morton stared. And then: "But why have you told me all these things now? -- when
						you had succeeded in your plan?"
					"Because I see things differently now," replied the same quiet voice. "Jack -- he was
						attractive, and I liked him -- but I never really loved him. I am sick of the things I
						tried to do, sick of the things I dreamed of. You may have Jack's freedom any way you
						like. I'm through with it all." She repeated the last sentence, still quietly, but
						vibrantly. "I'm through with it all!"
					In Clifford there was wild exultation -- a thrilling sense of triumph, too new as yet
						for him to think of its possible relation to himself. He had tried to influence her by
						influencing the events which touched her life -- but never had he foreseen just such a
							dénouement of events, just such a dénouement
						 of character. He had been right all the while, as to the
						fundamental worth of her nature!
					Morton stared at the pale, composed face of his daughter-in-law, which gazed with such
						steadiness into his own. He was utterly without words for a few seconds. Then he burst
						out: -- 
					"Even if all of what you have said is true," he cried desperately, "you are
						nevertheless the one person who can save Jack. We'll overlook what you've been and what
						you've done. You're Jack's wife. Well, you've got to stand by him!"
					"I'm through with it all," she said once more.
					Morton's desperate, suppliant manner changed. Once again he was the keen, powerful
						personality that made him master of men and things.
					"You can't slide out of it like that, Mary Morton, -- to give you your right name for
						once," he drove at her grimly. "Something seems to have awakened you -- awakened you to
						what you regard as a real sense of honor. Well, here is something for this new sense of
						honor to consider: Whatever your motive was in marrying Jack, in marrying him you have
						incurred a definite obligation. It's your duty, unless you want to be a quitter, and
						more of a crook than you were before, to fulfill that obligation!"
					She looked at him fixedly -- for a long time. Then she slowly looked around at Clifford
						-- then she looked back again, and her figure tensed. For a long time no one spoke.
					"It's an obligation you have incurred!" Mr.  Morton drove
						at her. "It's your duty to fulfill it!"
					"My duty!" Her eyes grew wide, and she shivered. Her wide eyes remained fastened in
						their sickly stare upon Mr. Morton's grim mandatory face; she was thinking, weighing the
						wide alternatives of life; influenced perhaps by the new point Mr. Morton had made, but
						not influenced by his attempted dominance.
					"My duty!" she breathed again. Then the life seemed to flow out of her. Her straight,
						slender body drooped and swayed, but a hand clutching the back of a gilt chair held her
						up. "Very well," she said in a thin dry whisper. And then: "Very well -- if you'll let
						me tell Jack all I've told you, and if Jack then still wants me."
					"You must n't tell him!" cried Mr. Morton sharply. "Even your hold on
						him is precarious. Telling him might ruin everything. Why, I guess you'd better not even
						let him know that I know. Take him back to the Mordona -- be Mr. and Mrs. Grayson for
						the present -- pretend to be working toward a reconciliation with me. Keep everything a
						secret until Jack is established."
					She smiled. The irony of it! How circumstances had reversed their positions: here was
						Mr. Morton urging almost the same arguments for secrecy that she had formerly used upon
						herself!
					It had been a very little smile. She was instantly sober.


					
					"Very well -- I'll keep it secret and I'll do what I can," she said.
					Clifford gazed at her heavily, a great, numb pain where his heart was. Then he slowly
						turned to Lieutenant Kelly.
					"Let 'em all go, Jimmie," he said briefly. "A pinch means publicity, and publicity is
						just what this situation does n't require."
					Jimmie removed the handcuffs and the three went out, Bradley glowering vengeance as he
						passed. "There'll be a next time, you bet!" he growled. Clifford made no reply.
					"Mr. Morton, you go next," Clifford said brusquely. "You should n't be found here by
						Jack when he comes to -- which may be any minute. Mrs. Morton can take care of Jack.
						I'll follow you as soon as I've had a word with her."
					A moment later Clifford was alone with Mary. He tried to keep his voice steady, but it
						did not altogether obey him.
					"I merely wanted to say that Bradley, Loveman, and the others may not be satisfied. You
						exposed yourself completely, but you exposed no one else. You let them off easy, but
						they may be afraid of you. What they tried to-night they may try again. I wanted to ask
						you to be careful."
					"I will be," she said.
					"And I wanted to say that I hope everything is going to work out for the best for you.
						For you know" -- he ended lamely, not very sure of what 
						
							 "I KNOW YOU REALLY HAVE BEEN MY FRIEND," SHE, ANSWERED -- "MY
								BEST FRIEND. AND I THANK YOU" 

						
						
						 he was saying -- "I really have wanted to be your
						friend."
					"I know you really have been my friend," she answered -- "my best friend. And I thank
						you."
					"Good-night," he said.
					"Good-night," she answered, in her face a drawn, gray look.
					For a moment he seemed unable to stir; then, "Good-night," he repeated, and left her,
						gray-faced, and standing rigidly upright in the midst of the debris of the evening's
						carousal -- to wait the awakening of Jack.
					Out on the sidewalk Clifford turned into a shadowy doorway; he was going to keep watch,
						and from a distance see Mary safely to the Mordona. Presently he was aware that Loveman
						was at his side, smiling his amiable smile.
					"Clever work, Bob," Loveman said pleasantly. "Now that it's all finished up, I suppose
						you are satisfied with the game you've played."
					"I'll not be satisfied till I really land you, Loveman." 
					"No?" said Loveman, very softly. "Perhaps -- who knows? -- the game may really not all
						be finished up -- for human nature, you know, is human nature -- and perhaps there are
						several other cards to be played -- several extremely good cards."
					With that the little lawyer moved away. Patiently, with heaviness upon his heart,
						Clifford stood motionless on guard in the doorway waiting for  Mary to appear with her charge ... wondering now over Loveman's soft
						remark about cards yet to be played ... now wondering about that gray, drawn look with
						which Mary had followed him out....

				

				
				

					CHAPTER XXVII
					

					
						JACK MAKES A RESOLUTION
					



					FOR an hour -- two hours -- Clifford continued to stand in the
						shadowy doorway near the entrance of the Midnight Café. Presently Mary came down, Jack
						with her. The light drug which Clifford had slipped into his drink to render him more
						manageable and prevent his going with his carousing companions, had spent its power.
						Jack was now sober, though plainly his nerves were still badly shaken.
					Clifford stepped out of his doorway. He wanted Mary to see him, that she might have the
						reassurance which would come of her knowing that he was keeping his promise to watch
						over her and Jack -- to ward off any possible attempt of Loveman and Bradley -- until
						she got Jack safely in the apartment at the Mordona, which, months since, they had
						occupied as "Mr. and Mrs. Grayson" and which they were again to occupy under that name.
						Mary saw him; but Jack also saw him, which last Clifford had not wished for.
					"Hello, there, Bob, -- come here," Jack called. Clifford crossed to him, and the young
						man gripped his hand in a hand that twitched. "Bob, old man," he went on, his unsteady
						voice full of feeling, "I  want to thank you. You did me a
						great turn -- and, old man, I'm never going to forget it. Mary told me how you got rid
						of dad, and then sent for her to take me in charge. It was great."
					Clifford did not look at Mary, but he was conscious of her pale, set face. He fell in
						with the apocryphal version Mary apparently had given Jack of what had happened while he
						had lain in a stupor.
					"That's all right, Jack," Clifford replied.
					"And say, Bob, I want you to know that I know I've been a fool -- and things a lot
						worse than that. But, Bob, -- that's all past now -- and past forever! I don't deserve
						what Mary is doing for me. But I'm going to make good. I'm going to be a good boy -- for
						Mary's sake! Just you watch me!"
					There was a frank manliness in the young fellow's voice and manner. He was deeply
						moved, and was as much in earnest as it lay within his powers to be.
					"Here's something I wish you'd back me up in, Bob," Jack went on. "I want to tell dad
						that Mary and I are married; but she objects. Don't you think I should?"
					Clifford, remembering that scene two hours back where Mary had told the older Morton
						everything while Jack lay unconscious, shook his head. "I think she's right, Jack."
					"Well, I'm going to tell soon, no matter what the two of you say!" He gripped
						Clifford's hand anew. "Thanks once more, old man. And remember, I'm sure going to make
						good!" 


					

					They stepped into a taxi-cab. All this while Mary had neither spoken nor looked at
						Clifford, and she did not look at him now. But Clifford saw that her face was still
						gray, still drawn.
					He followed at a distance in another taxi-cab, on the watch for interruption from
						Loveman or Bradley, or their agents. But there was none; and Jack and Mary passed out of
						sight into the Mordona. 
					For a space Clifford gazed after them, thinking. Again he had a profound sense that
						Jack was fundamentally a fine fellow; that what was chiefly wrong with him was that he
						had been swept into the resistless current of Big Pleasure -- and that also he had been
						victimized by those who make a subtle business of playing upon the human weaknesses of
						those whom Big Pleasure sucks in -- and that also, before and behind it all, he had
						never been properly guided by his worldly, masterful father. Clifford wondered whether
						this frank admission of faults, this declaration to make good, was merely a flare,
						merely the final spurt, of excellent qualities that were almost spent -- or whether this
						was in truth the beginning of a splendid Jack Morton that was yet to be.
					The latter seemed to be the case. Two days later Clifford chanced upon Mr. Morton at
						the Biltmore. "Jack came back to work this morning," commenced the financier, "and he's
						behaving as though nothing is too hard for him. I guess I owe an awful lot to  you for making me see that Mary was the only person who
						could straighten him out. She's a wonderful woman! The way she's behaved, it's something
						I cannot understand!"
					"Don't try to understand her," said Clifford. "Just try to be thankful."
					A new purpose had come into Clifford's life since that night at Le Minuit. Rather it
						was his old purpose, but now more grimly determined on, and unmixed and undeterred by
						other considerations. He was out to get Loveman, and Bradley, and their fellows -- and
						he was also out to protect Mary. And all this was now nothing more than a purely
						professional job, since matters were as they were with Jack and Mary.
					Clifford's long-prevailing reason for holding back on Loveman and the others -- that
						Mary might be free to work out her plan, and that Life might have. the chance to test
						her -- no longer had any force with him, now that Mary had exposed herself and renounced
						her ambition, now that she had nothing at stake. His determination to get Loveman was
						intensified by his certainty that Loveman was trying to get Mary: Loveman's soft-spoken,
						cryptic remark in front of Le Minuit, about the game perhaps not being finished, and
						there perhaps being other cards to play, made him sure that this great spinner of webs
						had not ceased from spinning. Clifford, putting himself in Loveman's place, realized
						that the little lawyer had motives for the most desperate 
						action. Loveman had lost Mary out of his schemes forever; he realized that she would no
						longer protect him in order to protect herself; he hated her for having blocked him; and
						he feared her, feared her daily, for she had it in her power to secure his disbarment,
						to send him to prison.
					There was no doubt in Clifford's mind that Loveman was planning -- that Loveman would
						act. And he believed that Loveman, in daily fear, would act quickly. But what would
						Loveman do?
					There was but one way to learn, and that was to keep Loveman under constant and
						discreet surveillance; and this now became the all-consuming routine of Clifford's life,
						in which he was aided by Lieutenant Jimmie Kelly and special men supplied him by
						Commissioner Thorne, and concerning which he took counsel with Uncle George. But days,
						weeks, went by; nothing happened. As far as the closest scrutiny could reveal, Loveman
						was going about his daily round of legal business and his nightly round of pleasures,
						and in no way was he concerning himself about Mary Regan. And likewise Bradley seemed to
						be confining himself to his own affairs.
					This behavior puzzled Clifford. Why were they holding back? But behind this seeming
						quiet, Clifford knew that things were brewing -- and big things. But as to just what
						they might be, he could get no clue. However, he kept doggedly at his secret watch.
						There would come a time when  they would doubtless act,
						and he must be ready and on the spot to take action when the moment came.
					One day when Clifford was talking the situation over with Commissioner Thorne, the
						Commissioner remarked: "They're undoubtedly up to something -- and you'll get them in
						the end, Clifford." And then: "I hear that young Jack Morton has braced up?"
					"Yes."
					"And I understand that it's the influence of his wife that's keeping him in the strait
						and narrow."
					"Yes."
					There was no further reference to Mary Regan. But each understood what was in the
						other's mind: Thorne knew of Clifford's regard for Mary Regan, and Clifford knew that
						Thorne knew it.
					"Clifford," the Commissioner went on after a moment, "I've twice offered you the
						position of Chief of the Detective Bureau. I have a man in the place now, but he does
						n't like it and I'm going to shift him as soon as I can. Clifford, I'm offering that job
						to you again."
					"Thanks, Chief. I appreciate the honor" -- and he did. In former times Clifford had
						looked up to that position as the glory-crowned but unattainable peak in his
						professional career. He hesitated. "It's a mighty big thing, Chief, -- but do you mind
						if I don't give you my answer until this job I'm on is closed up?"


					

					"All right, Clifford. But remember -- I'm counting on you."
					While Clifford kept at his appointed task -- al- ways with the sense that something big
						was gathering, and always wondering why Loveman was holding back -- the summer grew
						toward its prime. Jack he occasionally saw; the young fellow seemed to be keeping his
						promise made that night out in front of Le Minuit. And occasionally Clifford saw the
						elder Morton, who was remaining in town despite the heat, to watch over his son in this
						latest testing of Jack's fiber. But all this while Clifford did not again see Mary.
					And then in the early days of August there happened what perhaps had been inevitable
						this long while -- something which was perhaps, despite halts and hopeful upward turns,
						merely a following of the direction in which this affair had been fore-doomed to move
						since he had first come into it. Clifford first learned of it when Mr. Morton sent for
						him. He found the financier with his grim power of control trying to repress his
						agitation.
					"Day before yesterday was Jack's twenty-fifth birthday," said Mr. Morton, "and Jack
						came into that legacy left him by his aunt -- two hundred thousand cash, you remember.
						That same day it was deposited in his name. And that same afternoon he began drinking.
						He was at it yesterday; he did not appear at the office at all. And last night he did
						not go home; Mary has not seen him since yesterday 
						morning. God!" -- with a burst of emotion -- "I don't like to be asking you this again
						-- but do what you can to find the boy!"
					"I'll get him if I can," Clifford said quietly, and went away.
					Clifford did some quick thinking. Jack at last might just naturally have reached the
						limit of the endurance of his good resolution -- yes, that probably was the case. But
						even if so, the weakness of the eaten-away structure of Jack's will was not alone
						responsible for his break-down and disappearance. All Clifford's instincts, and all his
						cold reasoning, told him that Loveman was concerned in this latest relapse of Jack. It
						was, as he well knew, an easy matter to keep a man -- either with or against his consent
						-- hidden in the vast human wilderness of New York.
					More intently, and more carefully, than before Clifford now followed the little lawyer
						-- about his downtown legal work by day, about the restaurants and roof-gardens at
						night. Every hour of the twenty-four either Clifford, or the men assigned to help him,
						had the little man under surveillance. As far as eye could discern, Loveman was
						preserving the established routine of his life: a figure at various public resorts until
						three -- then to bed -- up at eight -- at his office at nine-thirty -- then with his
						dinner at seven beginning the round of pleasure for the night.
					But on the fourth evening after Jack's disappearance 
						there was a slight variation. Clifford, supping with Uncle George, whose company he
						found a boon in this late-houred routine, saw Loveman start home at a little before two,
						an hour earlier than was his wont. In a taxi with Uncle George Clifford followed
						Loveman's car, saw Loveman when he came to one of the upper West Forties, -- a street of
						one-time handsome residences, -- slip out of his car and walk rapidly through the quiet,
						deserted cross-street. Clifford also got quickly out of his taxi, and slipped into the
						dark shadow of a stoop -- where Uncle George, showing a surprising quickness, joined him
						a moment later.
					A little way down this street, before a black-windowed house, Clifford noted two empty,
						shadowy automobiles; he saw that they were alike at least in this, that both were low
						and long, built evidently for speed and the ability to maintain it.
					Having reached this darkened and seemingly empty house, Loveman turned and ran quickly
						up the high, old-fashioned stoop. The next instant he had let himself in with a
						latch-key.
					"I suppose you know what that place is?" whis- pered Uncle George, gripping Clifford's
						forearm sharply.
					"Yes," breathed Clifford -- "the house of Joe Le Bain!"

				



				
				

					CHAPTER XXVIII
					

					
						THE HOUSE OF MONSIEUR LE BAIN
					

					MONSIEUR LE BAIN, from
						catering to the reckless rich and to spendthrifts who had large sums that abode with
						them for a flitting month or so, and to monied persons about whose characters and
						designs he preferred to remain safely ignorant -- Monsieur Le Bain had discovered that
						such as these, on occasion, desired a greater privacy than his Grand Alcazar or his Le
						Minuit or any other restaurant afforded them -- a sumptuous exclusiveness in which,
						without danger of being seen by uninvited eyes or their merry-making marred or
						restrained by the propinquity of strangers, a party might dine or sup en
							famille. Quick to see and seize opportunities, Le Bain had devised the material
						equipment to please such patronage. In addition to the Grand Alcazar and Le Minuit,
						which he advertised and to which he welcomed all, he had set up another establishment
						which he did not advertise, and of which few even knew, and to which even fewer ever
						gained admission.
					This was an old brownstone house in the upper Forties between Fifth and Sixth Avenues,
						outwardly most discreet and decorous -- and, moreover, inwardly so most of the time. The
						house was furnished  as a private residence, and richly
						furnished, too, albeit somewhat garishly since Le Bain's latter-day aesthetics had been
						founded upon the gilt and rococo of Broadway restaurants. There was a large drawing-room
						whose windows were so deftly curtained that no inner light ever filtered into the
						street; behind that a large dining-room, in which one might be as merry as one liked
						without passers-by being halted by laugh or song -- or by any possible sound of a less
						happy character that might originate therein. And in the basement there was a perfect
						kitchen, which, on those occasions when the house was briefly inhabited, Le Bain peopled
						with his most efficient and reticent retainers -- it being understood that after the
						dinner or supper had been served, and if the host so directed, these cooks and waiters
						and ladies' maids should vanish. And that the party might not suffer from such
						withdrawal, there was installed in the butler's pantry an ingenious refrigerator in
						which foods were kept cold and wines properly iced -- and from which host and guests
						might serve themselves.
					Such was Le Bain's other establishment. For the time paid for it was actually the
						lessee's "home" -- as much immune from police interference as any other man's castle.
						This Le Bain would sub-let possibly two or three times a week, possibly once a month, to
						some one he knew or some one with trustworthy introduction -- always at a price
						commensurate with the extraordinary privacy he supplied.


					

					And he never asked questions; particularly did Le Bain prefer to know only the name of
						the renting host -- never of the guests. Then, if anything ever happened there which got
						to the police, -- and it might, -- Le Bain would be able to say to interrogating
						officers that he maintained this place for patrons who wished to give "home dinner
						parties" -- surely a legitimate business enterprise! -- and he knew nothing at all about
						who was there and what they did.
					When Peter Loveman, at two o'clock in the morning, quickly closed the outside door,
						slipped along the hallway, and then drew aside the hangings and peered reconnoiteringly
						into the great dining-room (finished as to walls and ceiling in paneled Flemish oak,
						lighted by a sunlike chandelier with multitudinous pendants), he saw just what he had
						expected to see, just what he had so skillfully planned and so adroitly manipulated.
						About a small, intimate table, food-strewn and wine-stained, -- a table almost lost in
						this great room which could have seated a party of fifty, -- sat Nina Cordova, Nan
						Burdette, Hilton, Jack Morton, and a slight, evilly handsome third man. His people had
						done their work well, exactly as per instructions, Loveman noted: the servants had
						obviously been sent away, and Jack was in the desired state of reckless and pliable
						hilarity. Loveman continued to look in for a moment, hesitating. He would have vastly
						preferred not to be here -- there was too much danger  for
						him. But his clever scheming, whose original outline the interference of Clifford and
						the uncalculated elements of human nature in Mary Regan had thrown repeatedly into
						disarray, was now nearing the culmination of what was its latest readjustment. 
					Loveman had held back his many-elemented new plan -- two big plans they were, in fact
						-- because each was dependent in a degree upon the other. He had not dared act too
						quickly in the matter of Mary, for such a course might, by some twist of circumstances
						or human nature, affect Jack, and therefore upset what he had contemplated concerning
						Jack. To succeed in either he had to succeed in both; and to succeed in both he had to
						synchronize them. Whether he had done this, the hour or so ahead was to prove.
					Loveman frankly admitted to himself that his affairs and his own personal safety were
						in a critical condition -- critical to a degree never before reached in his career. As
						he now had matters planned, he stood to win everything -- or almost everything; and also
						he stood to lose everything -- or almost everything. In such a crisis, where all was at
						stake, he had to be on hand -- despite any added risks -- to watch over, and if
						necessary direct, the final moves of this his ultimate plan.
					Loveman stepped into the great dining-room, and stepped also into a scene that was
						typical of how the forces which are behind Big Pleasure, which are  a part of it, handle those who weakly or unwarily let themselves be carried
						too far by its alluring and mighty current.
					"Good-evening, everybody," he called cheerily. "Hello, Jack. This is certainly one
						quiet little birthday party you're giving." Loveman had himself instigated it, though
						these five at the table had brought it to pass. "Kind of you to invite me, Jack."
					"Got to have ole Peter -- else no birthday party," cried Jack, swaying up and taking
						Loveman's hand, holding on to one of Nina's with his left. "Had three birthday parties
						this week; goin' have seven next week. Peter, y're invited to 'em all! You there, Slim,"
						-- this to the slight, handsome young man, -- "get fresh bottle Pommery, open for ole
						Peter Loveman."
					Without taking his eyes off Jack, Loveman let them also include Nina Cordova. She gave
						an almost imperceptible nod.
					"Thanks, Jack," said Loveman; and then in an amiably chiding tone: "But I must say I'm
						surprised. I thought you had settled down to be a steady business man."
					"Damn business!"
					"But your wife, Jack? I thought you were trying to attend to business for her
						sake."
					Jack showed a flash of petulant ill-temper. "Tha's wha' make me sore at her! Always
						drivin' me to work. Always work -- always business!  Man's
						got ri' to li'l' relaxation, ain't he?" His good-nature was back again. "Tell you wha',
						man's got ri' to do as he likes. Tell you wha', nothin' like bein' free!"
					"Oh, I don't know," put in Nina with a challenging shrug of her dainty bare shoulders,
						and a disbelieving smile. "That's what you say -- but you would n't really dare do it
						and be it. You see, Peter," with her pleasing drawl, -- she was a better actress off the
						stage than on it, -- "this bold young gentleman, who believes so strongly in his right
						to do as he pleases, has just been trying to tell me how much he loves me. He's a nice
						little boy, Jack, -- but I don't believe him."
					"But, Nina, li'l' girl, I do love you!" protested Jack. "Here's Slim with tha'
						champagne. Slim, fill all glasses. Everybody ready? All ri' -- here's Nina, only girl I
						love, only girl I ever goin' love!"
					Jack drained his glass. The others merely sipped theirs.
					"But drinking a glass of wine does n't prove anything," said Nina, with her pleasantly
						provoking drawl. "You say you're free, and you say you love me -- but you're afraid
						really to prove it."
					"Not afraid!" Jack declared stoutly. "Prove it any way you say!"
					She gazed at him in amused skepticism -- yet a most alluring smile on her young face.
						"Oh, no, you would n't, Jack. There's only one way to prove your independence and your
						love. You know what  that is -- to drop everything else,
						and go away with me."
					"I'll do it to-night!" he cried. "Say, listen, Nina, -- know a li'l' place up in
						Adirondacks -- nice, quiet li'l' place -- 
					"No, thanks," she interrupted. "If you took me off into hiding, that would n't prove
						anything. Besides, I want to be where there's something doing, and where there's people
						-- you understand, classy people."
					"Tha's all ri'! Make it Newport, Bar Harbor, any ole swell resort you like. I'm no
						quitter!"
					"I believe you really are in earnest," mused Nina, her large eyes upon him.
					"Sure, I'm earnest! Make it Narragansett Pier -- any ole place you like!"
					She shook her head, and sighed. "You're awfully good, Jack, but it can't be done. I've
						no clothes -- and those places take clothes -- and clothes, the right sort of clothes,
						they take money -- and I have no money."
					"Wha's money!" Jack laughed. "Tha's nothing! I got money. I give you a check."
					"Really?" -- the large, almost childish eyes still upon him. "Yes, you really are in
						earnest. But one check would n't buy all I need."
					"You li'l' fool -- pre' li'l' fool," he cried, patting her cheek, and laughing again.
						"I can make it one big check."
					She shook her head. "I don't know anything  about checks
						and banks, but I know it would take three."
					"All ri'," he said good-humoredly, tickled by her ignorance. He drew out his pocket
						check-book. "How much?"
					"Oh, I don't know. Could n't you just sign your name, and let me fill those spaces when
						I buy the things?"
					"Sure. Peter, you always carry ole fountain pen. Lemme have ole fountain pen jus' one
						minute."
					The pen was handed over. Jack signed three checks and passed them to Nina. She murmured
						warm thanks, and then looked from them to him, apologetic doubt in her eyes.
					"A woman's clothes cost an awful lot, Jack, -- more than you guess. Would it be all
						right if I had to fill these in for perhaps as much as five hundred dollars apiece?"
					Again Jack laughed. "Sure -- you pre' li'l' fool!"
					"You can laugh, but I want to be certain," she protested. "I don't want to get in
						trouble by having people come after me for having passed checks that had no money behind
						them."
					Again Jack laughed. "'S all ri', Nina. Listen." He leaned toward her confidentially.
						"Other day, you know, I'm twenty-five; came into nice li'l' ole pile money. Soak it away
						in bank. Since then I buy tha' nice li'l' ole car -- the car I drive you up here in,
						Nina -- some li'l' ole car when I turn her loose -- 
						nothin' ever passes her -- an' I draw out li'l' spendin' money. Tha's all." He snickered
						once more. "Five hundred -- is my check good for tha' -- oh, say! Listen, Nina. It's all
						down on stubs of my checkbook -- wha' I deposit -- wha' I draw out. Look for yourself --
						tha'll show you! "
					He handed her the check-book. She examined the stubs, then gazed at him in
						stupefaction.
					"Why!" she said breathlessly, -- "why -- over one hundred and eighty-nine thousand
						dollars!"
					"Sure!" He grinned delightedly. "Am I good for five hundred -- eh, Nina?"
					"I beg your pardon, Jack. Why -- I never dreamed -- Then, of course, it will be all
						right if I make them as much as five hundred each."
					Her face broke into a sudden, naive smile. "And I tell you what, Jack, -- I'll make
						them payable to 'Cash,' then I won't have to endorse them nor will anybody else -- and
						if anybody wants to start a scandal, why, nobody that sees them will ever suspect, and
						certainly not be able to prove, that I got money from you. It'll protect both of
						us."
					Nina seemed to have another inspiration -- a very business-like one. "And what's more,
						I'll just fill these in now and have it all done with. Peter, let me have your fountain
						pen. Thanks. And, Jack, while I'm writing, you might pour me a fresh glass, and yourself
						one, and one for the others -- that's a dear boy. Remember you're the host."
					While Jack was unsteadily doing a host's duty,  decanting
						almost as much of the amber fluid upon the cloth as into the glasses, Nina filled out
						the checks; and as she wrote she three times repeated aloud: " Payable to -- Cash --
						Five -- Hundred -- Dollars."
					She returned Loveman's pen, waved the checks daintily until the ink had dried, then
						slipped them within her sex's invariable postal box. Loveman glanced at his watch and
						rose briskly.
					"Excuse me a minute or so," he said. "I promised to call up a party at two o'clock, and
						it's almost half after."
					He disappeared through the heavily curtained doorway through which he had entered. The
						next moment he reappeared.
					"Nina, just as I started to use the 'phone, there came a call for you. A woman, but she
						refused to give her name."
					When Nina had stepped into the hall and the heavy curtains had swung behind her,
						Loveman silently held out his right hand. Also in silence Nina reached within the bosom
						of her gown, drew out the checks and handed them to him. He unfolded them, scrutinized
						them sharply, refolded them, and slipped them into an inner pocket.
					"Nina, you certainly did it great," he said in a whisper. "If you were as good on the
						stage as you are in a play like this, Dave Belasco would be paying you a thousand a
						week. Great stuff, Nina!"
					And then rapidly: "Go on back in. Remember  you've got to
						keep him going for two days. He must n't suspect a thing, and we've got to keep him out
						of the way until these checks go through."
					"I understand," and silently that excellent off-stage actress reentered the
						drawing-room.
					Beneath the stairway of Le Bain's house of a hundred precautions was an item which on
						occasions helped measurably toward the ultra-private pleasures of his guests -- a
						telephone installed in a closet. Loveman stepped through the door of this, closed it,
						and after a wait was speaking to Mary Regan at the Mordona -- speaking in a
						well-mimicked voice: -- 
					"Hello.... This is Lieutenant Jimmie Kelly, of the Tenderloin Squad, -- you know,
						friend of Mr. Clifford. Mr. Clifford has just found Mr. Morton -- Jack Morton, I mean.
						Jack is sick of what he's been doing the last few days -- half crazy with remorse, you
						understand. Mr. Clifford can't leave Jack, and he asked me to telephone you to come for
						him. We're all at" -- here Loveman gave the address -- "it's one of those old private
						houses made into an exclusive restaurant. Just ring and I'll let you in. ... All right,
						then, we'll expect you in half an hour."
					He called a second number, which he got instantly, and he spoke in his natural voice,
						though his words to any other ears save those at the end of the wire, might have been
						enigmatic: -- 
					"I wish to report a full crop," he said. " Immediate delivery is requested."



					
					With that he hung up and stepped out of the closet, wiping away the moisture begotten
						by the stifling air of the cubicle. The full-bodied little man, that Fifth Avenue and
						Broadway knew best as an amiable, unflurried smile, was now set and grim of face,
						excited with suspense and calculations. All had thus far gone well with his plan.
						Immediately before him was the next vital development, swiftly approaching its
						culmination. If all went there, too, as planned -- why, he would be safe -- no man could
						touch him -- and once emerged from the desperate methods into which his present danger
						had forced him, he would be more careful in the future.
					Resuming his amiable smile, Peter Loveman rejoined his companions in the dining-room. 

				
				
				

					CHAPTER XXIX
					

					
						CLIFFORD WAITS ON GUARD
					


					FOR a minute or more, after he had seen Loveman go up the high stoop
						of Le Bain's dark-windowed house, Clifford had stood with Uncle George in the shadow
						across the deserted street and had thought rapidly. He knew the character of that
						silent, respectable-fronted residence; he had heard rumors, vague, to be sure, of
						certain happenings that had taken place within; and he had heard rumors -- again only
						rumors -- of happenings in which unwitnessed and unrestrained pleasure was not the
						dominant purpose of the organizer of the party. He was certain that some vital phase of
						Loveman's shrewd scheming was being, or was to be, enacted within: Le Bain's reticent
						and expensive house was not taken for ordinary pleasures or commonplace enterprises. 
					He had to get inside, somehow; he had to know what was happening there. Without making
						the test, he knew Le Bain would have upon those two front doors, stoop and basement,
						locks of a character that it would be wasted time to try to pick or force quietly. Of
						course he might get police aid, and, ignoring such a mere detail as law, might break
						down a door -- but that would give the alarm to  whoever
						might be within and would spoil everything. And then he might ring the bell, and before
						the person who answered could slam the door upon him, he could drive his way through --
						but this again would give alarm and would ruin everything. The very essence of the plan
						forming in his mind was to try to keep himself in the unseen background, to discover
						just what Loveman and his associates had under way, to let them carry their plan through
						to its completion, and then, when he had the goods on them, to act swiftly. That is, if
						he could. There was no other way.
					With Uncle George he reentered the waiting taxicab and hurried toward Le Minuit. On
						Broadway he met two of Lieutenant Jimmie Kelly's plain-clothes men who were willingly
						impressed into his service.
					At the blazing entrance to Le Minuit Uncle George halted. "I guess I'll not go up with
						you, son," he said. "I'll do more good if I don't openly mess in police affairs. But
						I'll hang about."
					Clifford nodded. With the two plain-clothes men he mounted the wide bright stairway
						that led to the Midnight Café.
					"Tell Le Bain I want to see him in his office," he said to the door-man, and moved
						quickly among the tables and passed through a gray-and-gilt door. In less than a minute
						Le Bain entered.
					"Joe," Clifford began brusquely, without prelude, " I want the key to that private
						house of yours, and I want it damned quick."



					
					Le Bain tried to look blank. -- "What private house? Why, Bob, I don't know -- "
					"Cut out the stalling!" interrupted Clifford. "It won't do you any good -- and I've no
						time to listen to it. I know all about that house. And you need n't say the people who
						have it to-night have the only keys -- I know you have a lot of duplicates for the
						convenience of members of a party that prefer not to go there in a group. So come
						across!"
					"But, Bob, honest to God --"
					"No time for your lies, Joe! Now, you listen to this if you care for your own health.
						The people there won't know I got in with your consent, and you'll not get in bad with
						them. That is, unless they are pulling something raw there -- in which case I can
						testify that you assisted me. On the other hand, if you don't come across I'll have the
						Commissioner of Licenses revoke your license for Le Minuit within twenty-four hours, and
						you'll find you'll never be able to do business again in this town. Quick, now, -- let's
						have that key!"
					Monsieur Le Bain, immigrant from somewhere in that part of France which lies below
						Fourteenth Street, slowly turned about and fumbled in a drawer of his desk. He was a
						long time about it, but when he finally turned there was a key in his long
						yellowish-white hands. Clifford took the key, but as he did so he caught the fading
						remnant of a crafty look in Le Bain's shifty eyes.
					"Boys," he said sharply, "you stick right here  and
						entertain this gentleman for two hours. He can do anything he likes except talk to
						people -- or talk into that telephone."
					Clifford caught the twitch in Le Bain's face, and he knew he had forestalled the
						other's intent to telephone warning to the brief tenants of the house.
					Clifford was down in the street two minutes after he had entered Le Minuit. Here he
						found Uncle George, waiting.
					"Hate to use you as a messenger boy, Uncle George," he said rapidly -- "but you're the
						best possible man for the job. Mind skirmishing around Broadway until you find Jimmie
						Kelly and some more of his men?"
					"I'm hired," the old man replied promptly.
					"Tell Jimmie to hang around the Knickerbocker on the chance that I may telephone him.
						And you might hang around the 'phone yourself."
					"I'll never leave it!" said Uncle George.
					Clifford hurried from Le Minuit, and five minutes later he was unlocking the heavy
						outside door, and then the door within that, -- of the dark-faced house in the upper
						Forties. He crept down the dim hall, muted with Persian rugs, and soon he was gazing
						through cautiously parted curtains into the oak-paneled dining-room, and at the six
						celebrants of Jack Morton's third birthday party of that week.
					Clifford watched and listened, every sense alert. The last of that little scene between
						Jack and Nina Cordova over the checks was being enacted: he saw  Jack, laughing at the business ignorance of the "pre' li'l' fool," sign the
						checks and hand them over -- and he saw Nina's scribbling pen fill them in (before
						Jack's eyes) -- and he heard her slowly repeat: " Payable to -- Cash -- Five -- Hundred
						-- Dollars."
					Clifford drew a quick breath. He understood it all now -- or thought he did. So that
						was what Loveman was up to! Well, it was worth Loveman's while to pay almost any price
						for the guaranteed privacy of Le Bain's house!
					The next moment Loveman was coming straight toward him. But Clifford had already made a
						swift survey of the resources of his situation; and before Loveman was in the hallway,
						he was behind a pair of tapestries at the forward end of the hall. The space behind him
						was unlighted, but he sensed that he was in the drawing-room. Peering out, he saw the
						brief scene between Nina and Loveman. That little scene convinced him that he had been
						correct in his conclusion of a few minutes before as to the significance of this affair
						in this house that told no secrets.
					For a minute Clifford thought he had solved the mystery -- that he had his case
						complete, all except arranging for his arrests. Then Loveman entered the telephone booth
						beneath the stairway. That was a new element. What could Loveman be about? Clifford
						leaned out and strove to listen, but not one word of Loveman's filtered through the
						closet's sound-proof door.



					

					Loveman left the booth and rejoined the company. Clifford had noted a slit of light at
						one side of the darkened drawing-room, and toward this he now noiselessly made his way.
						The slit proved to be a parting in the heavy curtains between the drawing-- and
						dining-rooms. Motionlessly Clifford watched the group of six -- and all the while he
						wondered what Loveman's telephoning could be about. There was drinking, and banter, and
						reassertions of Jack's determination to prove himself a free spirit, and two stumbling
						attempts by Jack to dance with Nina to the music of his own singing -- and thus half an
						hour passed.
					Presently there was a ring. At a word from Loveman, the evilly handsome young man --
						"Slim" Harrison, Clifford knew him to be, a crack driver of racing-cars, and a
						proficient in all the evils of Broadway -- rose and left the drawing-room and passed
						forward through the hallway. Clifford heard him open the front door, and remark
						courteously: " Come right in -- Mr. Clifford is waiting for you."
					Footsteps -- two pairs of them -- returned down the hallway, and then Clifford saw Slim
						Harrison swing apart the other pair -- of tapestries, saying, "They're waiting for you
						in here." And then stepping into the brilliant light of the great dining-room he saw
						Mary Regan.
					Two paces within the doorway she suddenly halted. "Where's Mr. Clifford and Lieutenant
						Kelly?" she exclaimed. Clifford saw her stiffen and 
						sharply eye the group at the table. Then her gaze fixed upon Jack, and she said quietly
						enough: "Jack -- I've come to take you home."
					Jack swayed uncertainly to his feet, his face sagging with amazement. "Why -- why --
						Mary --"
					But Clifford heard nothing of the next few sentences. That instant he understood it all
						-- or thought he did. He knew now the substance of Loveman's telephone message. He saw
						now the magnitude of this present situation just before him. Loveman's great scheme --
						the whole of it -- had been planned and drawn together, and timed to take place within
						that hour. Clifford did not yet prevision the exact character of the further
						developments -- but what better place for it than Le Bain's house, from which no sound
						issued, which kept secret all it saw and heard?
					Swiftly, silently, Clifford slipped out into the hallway, into the telephone closet,
						and closed the sound-proof door. He got the Knickerbocker Hotel on the wire, and a few
						minutes later he was snapping out sentences to Uncle George.
					"What, Jimmie has n't showed up yet! ... For God's sake, get hold of him somehow --
						tell him to come right over to Le Bain's house - you know the number -- with three or
						four of his men. Something big is going to break! -- big! -- you get me? And tell him to
						round up Mr. Morton on the way and see that he comes here after his son. I'll put the
						key under the doormat, so he can get in without 
						disturbing any one. I want the thing to come to a head before we act."
					Noiselessly Clifford crept out and hid the key. Then noiselessly he slipped back to his
						post at the curtains in the drawing-room.
				


				
				

					CHAPTER XXX
					

					
						WHEN WOMEN NEVER TALK
					


					MARY REGAN had drawn nearer the table, and pale,
						her figure tense, she was gazing fixedly at Jack -- waiting. Jack was gazing back
						sheepishly, stubbornly, -- and Nina Cordova and Nan Burdette and Hilton were staring at
						Mary in insolent triumph. Little Loveman's face was expressionless. Behind her, near the
						doorway, ready to move swiftly, if there was need, stood Slim Harrison.
					At that instant Clifford realized that his supreme interest was centered upon that
						trapped figure in the next room -- and that his supreme efforts would have as their
						chief object the extrication of Mary Regan from whatever crisis might be about to
						develop. But at the same time Clifford realized that his duty demanded that he hold
						himself in check, and allow Loveman to reveal the details of his plan by action, and
						then catch him in the act. He would then have evidence -- real evidence.
					"Are you coming, Jack?" Mary was saying quietly.
					"Go on with her, Jack," Nina Cordova taunted him. "None of us believed you had the
						nerve really to go through with what you were bragging about!"
					"Man's got ri' do wha'ever he pleases -- got ri'  have
						li'l' fun," Jack said obstinately, his eyes still fixed on Mary.
					"Are you coming, Jack?" she repeated in the same quiet voice.
					He wavered. Clifford sensed that the young fellow's finer instincts were trying to
						struggle through the murk of his being; and mixed with his disgust he felt a pity for
						this likable weakling who had been brought to this low estate.
					"All ri'," Jack said sullenly, and started to leave the table.
					"One moment, Jack," cut in the soft, even voice of Loveman -- and Clifford saw Loveman
						give Mary a quick, vindictive glance. "Before you go with her, Jack, I think you ought
						to know who she is. I only just now found out myself. Her name is Mary Regan, all right,
						but she comes of a crook family, and she herself has been a confidence-woman and
						all-around adventuress. She married you solely to do you out of your money. Ask her to
						deny it!"
					"It's true, Jack. But--"
					"Understand now why she wanted to keep your marriage secret?" Loveman cut in. "Plain
						enough: she knew that if it were generally known that you had married her, you would
						quickly learn the truth about her and that would finish her game. And that
						self-sacrifice business in letting your father believe that she was your mistress, all
						in order to protect you -- can't you see that she was really doing it to protect herself, and protect her own little scheme for  playing you along as a sucker? Want to go along with her now, do you, so she
						can soak you some more?"
					Jack, steadying himself with hands on the table, was staring across at Mary. "'S tha'
						so?" he demanded thickly.
					"Part of it. But, Jack, listen --"
					"I'll not listen! Tha's enough!" he burst out. He had irked at the restraints she had
						put upon him; and since for him she represented the routine life, he had unconsciously
						begun to weary of her. And all the while he had been sneakingly ashamed that he had
						accepted this supposed sacrifice from her. "I'll not go home!" he shouted across at her.
						"Un'erstand? I'll never go home! Un'erstand? I'm through with you! Un'erstand? You
						crook, you -- you li'l', dam', sneakin' crook!"
					Mary stared at the inflamed, wine-flushed face thrust toward her. Then she drew a deep
						breath -- a breath tense and quivering. Then a heavy voice sounded behind her.
					"Guess you've got the right dope at last, Morton, on this Regan dame."
					As Mary turned quickly, Clifford's eyes went to the other curtained doorway. Just
						inside it stood the broad, powerful figure of Bradley. So engrossed had Clifford been in
						the scene between Jack and Mary that he had not heard Bradley's entrance -- which had
						doubtless been effected by one of Le Bain's many duplicate keys.
					Clifford gasped within himself. The affair was  even
						bigger than he had thought a few minutes gone. And in a flash he guessed the explanation
						of Bradley's prompt appearance upon the scene: that while in the telephone closet
						Loveman had sent two messages -- that after getting Mary's promise to
						come, he had notified Bradley.
					Mary looked back at Loveman, ignoring Jack. Clifford could see that her face was very
						pale; but she was straight and her gaze was unafraid.
					"It's no use trying to make Jack see the truth, Peter Loveman," she said in a slow,
						determined voice. "There's no denying that you've beaten me. You have removed all my
						motives for keeping silent about you. I know enough about you and can produce enough
						evidence to secure your conviction on half a dozen counts -- and, believe me, Peter
						Loveman, I'm going to give all that evidence to Mr. Clifford."
					She turned to Bradley, and her steady voice went on. "You were a crook when you were in
						the Police Department -- and you've been a crook, playing every sort of crooked,
						double-crossing game, since you became a private detective -- and I have the evidence on
						you, too, that will send you away -- and believe me, Mr. Bradley, I'm going to use
						it!"
					Loveman started toward her, but Bradley checked him with a gesture of a big hand.
					"Oh, you are, are you!" he said to Mary, and advanced until he stood squarely before
						her. An ugly look had come into his face; her last words had  fired his animal anger. "Oh, I guess you're not, sister!" he said with
						crunching grimness. "I've had to hold off on you too long, but at last I've got you
						where I want you! You ain't going to expose me, and you ain't going to expose anybody
						else, and you ain't ever goin' to hurt anybody! Do you get me, sister?"
					He was glowering with malignant purpose. Clifford was wildly a-pulse with the desire to
						leap out and hurl himself on Bradley. But the time had not come; he had to wait and see
						the full purpose of this night's design.
					"And, let me tell you, Mary Regan," the heavy voice gritted on, "that I've come here
						myself because I want the personal satisfaction of attending to you -- and because I did
						n't want any slip-up on the job. And I'm going to tell you in advance just exactly
						what's going to happen to you. Why? Because your knowing that is going to make you
						suffer all the more -- and, damn you, you're going to suffer the limit! I ain't afraid
						to talk out, because we're all in this together!"
					He paused a minute; then demanded: "Want to know what's coming to you?"
					She stood silent, eyeing him steadily. Breathlessly Clifford waited. Without being
						aware of it, he had drawn his automatic.
					"I ain't going to croak you. That would be too soft for you -- it would be over too
						soon."
					"Help!" she called, with all her voice.


					

					"Go to it, kid, -- do it again," encouraged Bradley. "That's right, Slim," -- Harrison
						had caught her elbows from behind, as she had turned to run. "I guess you'll stand still
						now and hear me through. First item, sister, -- have you heard of that necklace that was
						stole a week ago from one of the rich dames that lives in the Mordona?"
					Mary did not speak.
					"It's a diamond necklace," Bradley went on. "Worth ten thousand -- mebbe twenty. I've
						got that diamond necklace on me -- never mind how I got it. Now, as I said, the dame
						that lost the ice lives in the Mordona. Also you've been living in the Mordona. Also,
						though they've never hung a case on you, the police know you've been a crook. Now, that
						there diamond necklace is going to be found by the police on Mary Regan. That's item
						number one."
					He paused to watch the effect of this upon her. White, she looked at him
						unflinchingly.
					"Here's item number two. You see Nan Burdette, and Hilton, and Slim Harrison, -- all
						publicly notorious characters, -- and I know I ain't offending any of them when I say
						that if there's any such thing as morals, they ain't never troubled any one of the three
						o' them. There's a big car outside -- it's got speed, believe me -- and Slim is
						certainly some driver. In about two minutes Nan and Hilton and Slim and you start off on
						a joy-ride -- and you'll be fixed so you won't do any objecting."




					

					Mary still gazed at him in white steadfastness. Clifford clutched his automatic with
						steely tenseness.
					"And waiting in the harbor of Greenport, out at the end of Long Island, is a swell
						little motor yacht. The crew has all been fixed. In two or three hours -- Slim here can
						make the run in about that time -- the four of you go aboard and begin a joy-cruise
						among those islands and bays out there where nobody is ever goin' to bother you. In
						about ten days the police will be tipped off as to who stole the necklace and where
						you're to be found -- and you'll be pinched in this crowd here, and the necklace found
						in the bottom of your bag. This bunch will swear that you came along voluntarily -- that
						you really helped get up the party. And the crew will testify how you and the others
						behaved -- and the bunch here will admit it. Booze all the time -- Slim, here, your
						special guy -- the lid off everything. I guess you get me!"
					If she did not, Clifford did. He drew a deep breath. It was all devilishly cunning. But
						tense and excited though he was, Clifford recognized that the situation was far larger
						than just this one case on which he looked; that in a limited way it was typical. Many a
						woman, in this world where he had been working these many months, had been the victim of
						kindred daring enterprises when necessary for the safety or the projects of these subtle
							entrepreneurs of Big Pleasure. And these women had never dared tell
						what had happened to them.



					

					Bradley drove on at her. "And your being pinched on a joy-cruise with this bunch, which
						will stamp you as being the same sort of character -- and that necklace being found on
						you -- this, with what the police already know about you, will fix you good and proper!
						Squeal all you want to on me or Loveman, or anybody you like -- you'll be so smeared
						your word won't count for a damn with a judge or anybody else!"
					Terrible as it was, Clifford almost admired the plan, so ghastly was it in its
						completeness, its convincingness. He saw that Mary's face was now drawn, her eyes wide
						-- saw that she was perceiving as inescapable the cunning fate that had been planned for
						her -- saw that she was seeing it as a thing beyond her ever to explain away.
					Taut as a violin string, Clifford directed his senses to the front of the house for an
						instant -- listening. Why were not Jimmie Kelly and the others on hand to reinforce him?
						He was not conscious that this scene, which had seemed so long to him, was in reality
						only a few minutes in the acting.
					When he peered back into the dining-room, Jack was lurching toward Bradley. He halted
						swayingly and pointed a finger at the detective, the man that was in him struggling once
						more to rise.
					"See here, Bradley," he said thickly. "Tha's no go! I no stan' f'r raw business like
						tha'!"
					"Shut up, you booze pup!" Bradley snapped at him. "What we're doing, we're doing as
						much for  you as anybody else. She's always played you
						rotten, ain't she? Well, we're just fixing her so she'll be showed up in public for what
						she really is -- and so she can't squeeze any dough out of you, and so's you have it
						easy getting a divorce. So back up, you boob!"
					He glanced at the group at the table. "Get your things on, Burdette and Hilton," he
						ordered. He turned again to Mary and her keeper: "All ready, Slim," he announced
						sharply.
					His slow taunting of his prisoner now changed to swiftest action. He drew from a pocket
						a heavy strap which he threw in a loop over Mary's head and with his huge strength
						buckled tightly at her elbows. In the same instant Slim seized her head from behind, and
						with a fierce, practiced grip forced a gag into her mouth, which the next instant he
						tied.
					"Where's that cloak?" Bradley demanded. Nan Burdette handed it to him, and he flung it
						about Mary. "Slim, got your car all ready?"
					"Yes."
					"Then gimme that motor-veil, Slim." It was handed over. "And you keep out of this,
						Morton, -- remember we're doing it to help you. Just hold her, Loveman."
					Nan Burdette and Hilton stepped forward and held apart the curtains -- while Jack, his
						face still wine-flushed, looked on waveringly, Nina holding his arm.



					
					Bradley threw the veil over Mary's head and began to knot it behind. "Get ready, there,
						to take her out!" he ordered sharply.
					"Why does n't Jimmie Kelly come?" Clifford's wild suspense cried within him.

				

				
				

					CHAPTER XXXI
					

					
						WHEN OLD FOES GET TOGETHER
					

					BUT Clifford dared wait no longer for his reinforcements -- and he
						dared not shoot, with Mary standing between him and his most-desired target, Bradley. He
						sprang through the curtains, his automatic in his right hand, and swung his left fist
						mightily just beneath the ear of the unsuspecting Slim Harrison, who went down like a
						dead man.
					"Look out!" shrilled Loveman, loosening Mary's arm.
					Bradley whirled about, instinctively holding Mary before him, from whose shoulders the
						unloosened cloak was falling, and from whose face the as yet unknotted veil fell
						away.
					"Come on, boys," Clifford cried, as if to a squad behind him. "Guard the front door,
						and round up the whole bunch!"
					"Beat it through the basement!" Bradley roared to the others. And at the same instant
						he hurled Mary straight at the on-coming Clifford. As she struck Clifford, Bradley
						leaped upon him and knocked his pistol flying from his hand, and then, brushing Mary
						aside with a powerful sweep, he grappled Clifford in his bear-like arms. The two men
						went swaying heavily. Clifford had a brief  vision of the
						others staring on nonplussed -- then they were gone, and he and Bradley were alone,
						except for the limp Harrison on the floor.
					"So it was all a bluff -- those others!" Bradley snarled at him. Exultant triumph
						gleamed in his malignant face. "God, I been waiting -- long enough for this -- but I'm
						going to get you at last!"
					Clifford tried to struggle free: Mary must have been taken by those others, and his
						every impulse called on him to pursue. But there was no breaking the clutch of those
						mighty, hate-hungry arms. He tried only to struggle defensively, hoping for the
						appearance of Jimmie Kelly -- but in a few moments he realized that if he merely tried
						to hold his own against this maddened antagonist he would swiftly be a defeated man --
						and that once beaten down he would be maimed to the exhaustion of Bradley's fury. And
						then he realized and accepted this for what it was and what it had to be: it was that
						"next time" for which Bradley had often wished -- the "time" which between these two old
						enemies there was no avoiding.
					This splendid dining-room had in its time looked upon many strange scenes, but never
						had it looked upon such a scene as that which followed. In each man -- hostile always,
						and super-enemies since Clifford had driven Bradley from the Police Department by the
						exposure of his criminal practices -- was the same supreme desire to destroy the other,
						destroy him physically -- to crush him utterly with 
						infuriated muscles. Grappling each other they went staggering about the great muted
						room. The table, with its champagne glasses, its silver-and-glass épergne of terraced
						fruit, went toppling over. The next moment a splendid if incongruous buhl cabinet was a
						wreck and its ostentatious exhibit of cut-glass was a thousand fragments upon the floor.
						And still the two men-beasts swayed about in their destructive fury.
					A minute of this mad straining of muscle against muscle, and that part of Clifford's
						rage which was unbridled madness disappeared -- though the rage itself remained. His
						head began to clear. He perceived that in such an animal-like struggle as this he was
						foredoomed: Bradley was the heavier and had the greater strength. So he began to try to
						break free: if he could change this to a fight with fists, and could keep Bradley at
						arm's length, there would be a different tale, for he knew himself Bradley's superior at
						boxing. But Bradley also knew this and clung unbreakingly on: his was the art of the New
						York policeman who has risen from the "gas-house district" -- an art in which no
						practice that will maim or win is barred. He kicked fiercely at Clifford's shins; he
						tried to drive his knee up into Clifford's stomach; suddenly bending his own body
						inwardly into an arc, he as suddenly contracted his gorilla-like arms, with the intent
						to disable his enemy, caught unawares -- perhaps break his back; and he closed a huge
						hand upon Clifford's face as  though it would strip the
						features from the skull -- and only removed that awful grip when Clifford sunk his teeth
						into the heel of the palm.
					For the time Clifford had forgotten all but Bradley. Had he thought of Jimmie Kelly, he
						would now have resented Jimmie's entrance.
					All this while, whenever he could get a free arm, and dared risk a blow, Clifford was
						driving his fist into the glowering face before his own. He was not directing his blows
						in the hope of a knock-out; the range was too short for his fist to secure the crashing
						power for that; but he sent his fists at the lips, at the nose, at the eyes. He was
						working toward an end, now -- working with a cold mind, though with fury unabated. He
						wanted those lips and nostrils to stream blood; he wanted those eyes to puff up and
						close. That of itself would not win him this gigantic struggle, since Bradley's great
						strength would not be reduced thereby. But it might cause Bradley to lose all
						self-control, and in his huge, unguarded violence to give Clifford the opening for which
						he was working and waiting.
					Clifford's nerves and muscles were now remembering something of the skill that had been
						his when he had been a member of his university's champion wrestling team. But he was
						carefully masking his plan. To Bradley he was apparently fighting the same kind of fight
						as his own -- where brute strength triumphed in the end. And with Clifford there was the
						question whether his old skill at its best would  avail
						against such superior strength as Bradley's -- and also the question, would he get the
						chance to use it?
					At length there came a moment when Bradley thought that he had won. He gave Clifford a
						supreme bear-hug -- more than once he had thus cracked strong men's ribs. Clifford gave
						a gasping cry, his mouth fell loosely agape, his knees gave way, and he hung a dead
						weight in Bradley's arms. Bradley was not primarily a fist-fighter, but he knew the
						value of a fist at the right moment.
					"I've got you now -- damn you!" he gasped fiercely, and loosened his right arm to draw
						back his fist to drive it into that flaccid face for the finishing blow.
					But that blow was never delivered. With a lightning swiftness Clifford wrenched free
						from that too-confident left arm, half dropped to the floor -- shot swiftly up with a
						backward leap that placed him behind Bradley, and as he came up his left arm darted
						under Bradley's left shoulder, and his left hand crooked itself upon the back of
						Bradley's bull neck. And in the same instant his right hand shot forward and caught
						Bradley's right wrist.
					Bradley gave a sneering laugh. "Want a kid's horseback ride, do you!" Snarling
						contemptuously again, Bradley shook his heavy shoulders as a great dog might shake its
						dripping ruff. But Clifford did not fly off. Instead his body braced itself and his arms
						stiffened. Bradley's head was driven sharply  into his
						chest, his right arm was drawn out straight. He gave a grunt and set his muscles
						contemptuously against this unknown maneuver. Not yet did the man dream what was
						happening to him.
					Grimly Clifford began to exert his strength, himself wondering if he could carry this
						thing through. This hold that he had upon Bradley was a hold that he had practiced in
						some fractional degree of its potentialities in friendly contests -- but never had he
						seen that hold used upon a human being to the reputed limits of its effectiveness. He
						recalled the avarice of this man, the brutal cunning, the ruthlessness, the devil's
						misuse of power -- the thousands he had bled financially, the unnumbered ones he had
						"framed" and whose freedom he had coldly sworn away -- and Clifford was aflame with
						retributive rage for all those whom this man in his might had made suffer. It was as
						though the strength of all these sufferers had been transferred into him. Certainly he
						never had had such might before. Slowly, inch by inch he drew Bradley's right arm back
						and downward -- Bradley straining with outstanding muscles and corded ligaments to
						withstand the terrific leverage.
					The right arm reached its lowest arc, then Clifford began to bend it back and pull it
						up. A groan burst from Bradley -- then, "Take a chance, Slim; for God's sake,
						shoot!"
					There was a report: a bullet grazed Clifford's scalp -- it must have missed Bradley's
						head by  inches. Clifford, raising his set face, his eyes
						bulging from his own effort, saw the dazed Slim on one elbow, aiming at him again. He
						swung Bradley about, so that his body was a better protection, and, heaving, panting,
						went on drawing that straining arm up -- inch by inch.
					Suddenly the curtains parted and Jimmie Kelly entered, behind him three of his men, Mr.
						Morton and Uncle George. Jimmie saw Slim's pointed weapon following the pair, waiting
						its chance; and leaping in he tore it from that deadly hand.
					"Steady, Bob," he cried, "and I'll get Bradley for you!"
					"Keep out of this!" Clifford panted hoarsely. "I've got him myself."
					They all stood back and stared at those straining, locked figures. The two seemed
						hardly to move, so tensely was the force of one set against the force of the other. But
						slowly, slowly, Clifford forced the right arm of Bradley up behind his back. Then
						summoning his all of strength, he heaved sharply and mightily upwards, as though he was
						lifting the very foundations of the house. There was a sharp report, almost as if Slim
						had shot again. A cry of agony burst from Bradley, and he went staggering across the
						room, and was saved from falling only by the embrace of one corner. Even so, he swayed
						on his feet; gasping groans came from his lips; and his right arm hung loosely at his
						side at a weird angle.
					"By God!" Uncle George ejaculated slowly. "I  once said
						that if ever anybody got Bradley, you would be the man -- and, son, you certainly did
						get him!"
					Himself reeling, struggling for breath, Clifford gazed at the face of his enemy, pulpy
						and bleeding and distorted with agony. "Yes, I got him," he gasped. Dizzily he walked
						over to Bradley. "I got you this time, Bradley, -- I got you at last!"
					But the loose figure with the misshapen face did not answer; as a matter of fact,
						Bradley did not hear. For a moment Clifford, panting, stood gazing on him; then his mind
						began to recover from the all-engrossing fury which had accomplished and motivated and
						energized this struggle. It began to return to the larger issues.
					He wheeled about. "Yes -- I got him. Jimmie, I think you'll find on him that Mordona
						necklace. Hand him over to a couple of your men. Yes, I got him," he repeated. "But I
						got only the body. The brains got away -- Peter Loveman."
					"And Jack?" eagerly put in Mr. Morton.
					"He must have gone with Loveman --" And as Clifford answered he was asking himself a
						vastly more vital question: where was Mary Regan?
					"But where did they go?" cried the father. "Can't we get him?"
					Clifford did not reply. Already his faculties had recovered; they were working with
						incredible speed, a speed that made each thought a flash. He recalled what he had
						witnessed and heard before Bradley  had come -- recalled
						the details of the plot with which Bradley had taunted his victim -- he totaled them --
						he made his deduction.
					He sprang across the room with new energy and seized Slim Harrison by the collar. "They
						would n't have taken your car without you! You're going to drive us!
						-- and you're going to show us all your machine has got! Come on, Jimmie," he cried
						sharply. "No, Jimmie, you and Uncle George go down and look through the basement and see
						if there's signs of any of them there -- and meet me out in front! Come on, Mr.
						Morton!"
					And leaving the bruised and unregarding Bradley in charge of Jimmie's men, Clifford
						hurried the dazed Slim Harrison before him through the tapestries and out of Le Bain's
						house of luxurious silence.
				



				
				

					CHAPTER XXXII
					

					
						PLEASURE PRESENTS ITS BILL
					

					OVER the black, oiled boulevard that reaches, with many tributaries
						and parallels, from Manhattan's Fifty-ninth Street Bridge to the twin points of Long
						Island, Jack Morton's new racing roadster was speeding eastward through the heavy
						three-o'clock night -- Jack at the wheel, Nina Cordova beside him, and Loveman and
						Hilton in the seat behind. The little lawyer had thought rapidly; and now, sunk low in
						the soft leather, he was counting his chances which had suddenly grown desperate, but
						which he still saw as large, if only there were no more slips and he got his share of
						luck. And as the car whirred on, devouring the silent, deserted miles, on and on went
						his brain, calculating his chances, shaping the details of his new course -- that brain
						whose supreme and sole function was to plan -- in which function all other qualities and
						potentialities of the man had become centered and concentrated, and for which they and
						the body itself had come solely to exist -- that brain which would never cease its
						tireless, brilliant planning until death should still its mechanism.
					He had revised his plans the instant Clifford had entered the dining-room -- had seen
						instantly what  was his best and only way. Getting Jack
						where he now sat had been simple. "Come on, Jack, -- the police will get you for this,
						too!" he had cried. And Jack, befuddled with drink, and feeling that his lot now lay
						with these friends, had obeyed instantly and without question. Into Jack's waiting car
						Loveman had sharply ordered those essential to his revised plan.
					"You know the Long Island roads? -- the way to Greenport?" he had asked Jack after they
						were in their seats.
					"Sure."
					"Then make Greenport as quick as you can. Remember that motor yacht Bradley spoke of?"
						He spoke with a cunning tone of excitedly pleasant anticipation. "We're going to be a
						bunch of pirates. -- going to capture the old tub -- and you and Nina and Hilton and I
						are going to have a nice little cruise and wine party all to ourselves. How's that?"
					"Gre' stuff!" had been Jack's enthusiastic comment. 
					The wheel of his new speedster in his hands, there automatically came on Jack an
						exhilarating sense that here was another lark. It was just like so many other parties of
						months and years before that had started out hilariously from Broadway for a meteor-like
						rush through the dark to distant roadhouses -- just one more party, but with a thrill
						and excitement that topped all others.




					
					Even when drunk -- that is, short of insensibility -- Jack was a good driver. His hands
						seemed to have a peculiar brain of their own -- albeit a reckless brain. Ten minutes
						after leaving Le Bain's house they were across the bridge, and five minutes later they
						were in the stretches of the boulevard; and Jack, pointing with his toe to a lighted
						dial, was chuckling to Nina: -- 
					"Nice li'l' piece junk -- eh, Nina? Doin' her li'l' ole sixty an hour, an' ain't half
						tryin'."
					"But slow down at the turns, Jack. Please be careful!"
					"'M always careful. Never had an accident." He laughed mischievously. "Goin' to show
						you nice li'l' breeze when we get out li'l' farther -- goin' touch her up to
						ninety."
					In the mean while, behind them, little Loveman was planning, planning -- and acting. He
						drew out a thin morocco wallet, from it took a stamped envelope, and on this with a
						pencil he scrawled an address -- the address of a New York bank where he had a personal
						account which was so private that there was not a scrap among his papers to indicate
						that such an account existed. Into this envelope he slipped the three checks Nina had
						given him, sealed it, placed it between the two halves of his wallet and replaced the
						wallet in his coat. That letter he would drop into a mail-box in Greenport.
					Once on board the yacht they would make for the ocean -- he knew the vessel to be large
						and stanch  enough to withstand any storm likely to arise
						in summer seas -- and he knew the government patrol boats guarding the coast were not
						interfering with the course of American pleasure craft. For two days -- longer if it
						suited the exigencies of his plan as it worked out, and perhaps to the end of the cruise
						-- he would keep Jack at sea; then he would get rid of him at some convenient port. In
						the meantime Jack's checks would have gone through Jack's bank. No one suspected the
						truth about those checks -- so he believed -- and it would be a long time before the
						truth came out in the routine of business. Before that he would have managed to draw the
						funds out of this secret account -- just how he did not yet see -- but somehow he would
						manage it. And all the while they would be cruising southward along the coast, slipping
						into port when necessary to take on oil. And finally they would make Mexico, where
						Hilton would find sanctuary -- and there or in some other Latin-American State he would
						start his career anew -- his and Nina's. And evading extradition -- for what charge
						could be formed against him with sufficient evidence to cause a foreign State to give it
						serious heed? -- they would become great people, people of brillant position, he and
						Nina.
					For all the time that he had seemingly been amused at her limitations and pretensions,
						and all the time that he had been quite willing to fit her into his dubious
						transactions, all this while Loveman  had had one ruling
						thought concerning Nina -- that in the end she should be his. There had been many women
						in Peter Loveman's life, but Nina Cordova, all of whose flaws he knew and at whom he was
						ever laughing, Nina was the only woman he had ever loved.
					Thus, as the car spun noiselessly through the heavy night, the shrewd, tireless brain
						schemed on and on -- as that brain would scheme on and on, brilliantly, fascinated by
						its schemes and their working out, until death should bring its blankness ....
					In the meanwhile, some miles back, another car was spinning toward the east and toward
						the dawn. But before that car had been launched on its flight several things had
						happened back on Manhattan.
					When Clifford came out of Le Bain's house, thrusting the scruff-held Slim Harrison
						before him, and saw as he had expected that the red car belonging to Jack was gone, an
						officer in uniform halted before the high stoop. He was holding a woman by the arm, and
						the woman Clifford saw to be Nan Burdette.
					"I saw her sneakin' out the basement door a few minutes ago," explained the officer,
						"and as she's a well-known character, and as she was actin' suspicious, I thought I 'd
						better see what she'd been up to."
					"So they dropped you, Nan," said Clifford. "I understand -- you were n't of use to them
						any longer. But what did you hang behind for?"



					

					"None of your business," said the woman.
					"I guess I understand -- if they were pinched you did n't want to get pinched with
						them, so you waited to make your getaway." Then, very sharply: "But what did they do
						with Mary Regan?"
					"I don't know," she answered sullenly.
					"Hold her, officer," Clifford ordered. "Lieutenant Kelly may have a definite charge
						against her in the morning."
					Just then Jimmie Kelly and Uncle George emerged from a shadowy doorway beneath the
						stoop. There was some one between them, and at sight of this person Clifford stepped
						quickly toward the two.
					"Mary!" he ejaculated. "Mary -- where were you?"
					"Mr. Loveman pushed me into the pantry and locked the door."
					"I see," said Clifford rapidly. "Their plan against you would now not help them -- you
						were now just excess baggage to them -- and they merely wanted to get you out of the way
						for a while."
					There was no time then for fuller explanations. "We're just starting after Loveman and
						Jack."
					Mr. Morton had moved toward them. "Mary," he said, his voice steady only through great
						effort, "I'd like to have you go along to help bring Jack back -- if Mr. Clifford does
						n't mind."
					She hesitated, then glanced questioningly at Clifford. Clifford nodded.
					"All right," she agreed.



					

					"Here's where I resign," said Uncle George -- "on the grounds that I 'm too old, that I
						'm too fat, that I 'm not needed, and that there 's no room for me. The best of luck to
						you!"
					"Thanks, Uncle George!" And Clifford gripped his hand.
					They hurried into the long, low,, gray car -- the car which was to have borne Mary upon
						that cunningly devised saturnalia. "Jimmie, if you don't mind, sit in front with Slim
						Harrison," said Clifford, and himself took the rear seat with Mr. Morton, Mary between
						them. He leaned forward and spoke with harsh dominance into Slim's ear. "Slim, I know
						this is a great machine, and I know that when you want to be you're a great driver --
						and understand this, your only chance of getting out of this affair halfway easy is for
						you to get us to Greenport not later than the car ahead. Now, turn her loose."
					Slim turned her loose. Once he was well across the Fifty-ninth Street Bridge, he lived
						up to all that the sporting pages had ever said in praise of his ability. The new car,
						clinging tight to the glass-smooth oiled macadam, flashed in a breath through villages
						-- past dimly seen summer "cottages" of New York millionaires, grand ducal in their
						leisured magnificence -- and on over the motor parkway through the humid, deserted
						night.
					In the rear seat there was silence, except for the gale begotten by the machine's great
						speed. Now and then, by the swift-passing lights of a village,  Clifford saw the face of Mary Regan: it was pale and set, seemed without
						expression, and was fixed unchangingly ahead, not so much upon the brilliantly illumined
						road before them as upon the spaces of the night. He wondered what she was thinking of
						-- she who had experienced so much these last few months, so many things that her
						calculations had not foreseen. But the swiftly gone glimpses of her white face gave him
						no clue....
					And now and again Clifford saw the face of Mr. Morton beside her. Also the face of this
						masterful man of business, who ruled his thousands of men and dominated a score of
						companies, and yet had failed to direct his own son in the way he would have him go --
						also Mr. Morton's face was drawn and pale, but it was fixed with straining impatience
						upon the roadway. Now and then Clifford saw him turn and gaze at Mary, whose
						forward-fixed look never shifted, and then turn back to the road, wetting his drawn,
						thinned lips....
					All the while Clifford's own mind was working. The professional part of Clifford felt
						the exultation of triumph already won -- and the exultant excitement of the chase,
						which, if successful, would make triumph complete. He had already got Bradley; he felt
						certain that he soon was to get Loveman and the others. That much done, the dominating
						professional purpose would have been achieved. He would have won.... But there was the
						man element in Clifford, and it also was thinking as the car flew  through the night. His success meant that Loveman, and Bradley, and Nina,
						and the others, who had subtly worked to undermine whatever of good there was in Jack,
						would be removed as factors in Jack's life -- and free of their influence and
						unopposedly under the influence of Mary, he and Mary might -- Well, that was the way
						Life worked out. For long he had expected for himself nothing more. ...
					On, on they sped, always silent, through the August night -- the car relaxing its speed
						only when there were sharp curves, and then at once picking up its flashing pace. An
						hour slipped by -- another hour. They were now come upon the upper of the two fingers
						into which the eastern third of Long Island separates -- and the blackness of the night
						had changed into a thick, sluggish dawn, that murky dawn held back and muffled by the
						heavy fogs which lie upon the outer portions of the island on humid days of late summer
						and keep the horns and sirens of the shore at their discordant singing until noon.
					Presently Clifford half rose in the machine and pointed forward. "There they are!" he
						exclaimed.
					Before them in the murk was a swiftly moving something, now visible, now vanished in a
						thicker portion of the fog. The others saw, but said nothing.
					Clifford leaned forward and spoke into Slim's ear. "Just keep about this distance from
						them -- they'll have to stop in Greenport and we can get them before they can go
						aboard."



					

					Slim nodded. Keeping this quarter of a mile behind, they rushed on into the fog --
						flashed through Southold -- over miles of marsh-bordered road -- skirted for a space the
						single track of the Long Island Railway -- skimmed more miles of marsh-bordered roadbed
						-- swung about a curve -- and then -- 
					They clutched each other, their horrified eyes staring ahead. "My God!" gasped
						Clifford; and Mary gave a sharp cry -- and a wrenching groan came from Mr. Morton.
						Instantly and instinctively Slim had shut off the gas and applied the brake -- and
						slowly they rolled onward, staring wildly.
					That thing which they had seen, happening all in an instant, was a commonplace of
						newspaper headlines. Long Island is a choice speeding-ground for that tribe known as
						"joy-riders." "Look out for Crossings" reads a placard in every passenger-coach of the
						Long Island Railroad -- and the same placard bears a picture of what may befall those
						who do not. Jack, who had taken ten thousand risks and never had an accident, had risked
						his fortune just once too often. Driving at reckless speed, his ears filled with the
						roar of the wind, he had only his eyes -- and too late had his eyes seen that freight
						engine thrust itself out of the fog ....
					Clifford helped Mary out of their halted car, and silently they all began the work of
						examination -- soon helped by the crew of the train. Jack's new red car was a tangle of
						twisted steel . . . First they  found Nina and Hilton;
						both were conscious and crying out in their pain -- each shrieked when touched. And then
						they found Peter Loveman: he was alive, but unconscious. Not far from him Mr. Morton
						picked up a morocco wallet, which he slipped into his pocket, Clifford not seeing this.
						And then Clifford and Mary found Jack: he also was alive and also unconscious. Strangely
						enough, his clothes were but little disordered, and there was not a visible scratch upon
						him. Lying with his pallid face toward the sky, the hair falling back from his forehead,
						he looked handsome and boyish and irresistibly likable and endowed with qualities which
						go to make an unusual man. Never to Clifford had that face looked so promising as it now
						looked.
					There is a good little hospital in Greenport, and in half an hour the four were in it
						-- and in less than another half-hour two famous New York specialists were in
						attendance, for many New York doctors have summer homes near Greenport, and are
						professionally connected with this little hospital. The first report of these two men,
						based on a hasty examination, was that Nina and Hilton had many broken bones, but would
						undoubtedly in time be as sound as ever; as to Jack and Loveman, a more careful
						examination was necessary before they could really tell anything.
					There was nothing Clifford could do but merely wait. Through an open doorway -- all the
						patients were on the same floor -- he saw Mary Regan sitting  at a window. He entered. She gave him a look from her pale face, and without
						saying anything looked back out the window. He drew a chair up beside her, and they both
						sat gazing out -- at the flag with a white field and a cross of blue which told that
						this little hospital had become an auxiliary hospital of the United States Navy -- and
						beyond at the harbor, with its scores of small white craft, one of which was doubtless
						the yacht of Loveman's visioned voyage -- the voyage that now would never be.
					Neither spoke; there were no interruptions -- Mr. Morton was at Jack's bedside, and had
						not left it. Clifford felt numb: part of this was physical weariness, part the shock of
						what had so swiftly happened, and part the sense of large issues (he was not then
						conscious of what they all were) that remained still in the balance. An hour of this
						heavy silence passed -- two hours; Mary, with white, set face, continued to gaze out
						upon the harbor of tiny ships.
					At length Clifford rose mechanically and went out into the corridor, and paced to and
						fro. Presently he saw a nurse come from Jack's room and enter Loveman's, and after a
						moment he saw the doctor who was with Loveman -- Dr. Peters, Clifford knew him to be, a
						great nerve specialist, -- emerge followed by the two nurses and enter Jack's room. He
						noted that Loveman's door had been left open; and first, without purpose, merely as a
						break in the routine of his walking, he paused and looked 
						

							 HE DREW A CHAIR UP BESIDE HER, AND THEY BOTH SAT GAZING OUT AT
								THE HARBOR 


						
						
						 in. Then he entered and crossed to Loveman's bed.
					To his surprise Loveman's large bright eyes were wide open; they recognized him -- and
						Clifford saw that they were alive with all of Loveman's intelligence. He gazed down at
						the sheet-covered figure, and something of the fury revived which had lain dumb in him
						these last two or three hours.
					"Well, Loveman, I've landed you at last!" he said grimly.
					The little lawyer made no response.
					"Make no mistake about it, Loveman, -- I've got you for fair this time -- and got you
						eleven different ways from Sunday!"
					Still the little man did not speak, though his eyes showed that he understood every
						word. Clifford was provoked at the manner in which Loveman ignored him.
					"Have n't you any come-back at all, Loveman -- you were usually quick enough with your
						tongue."
					"See here -- what are you doing with my patient?" a sharp voice called from the
						door.
					Clifford turned. Approaching was Dr. Peters.
					"He may be your patient, but he is my prisoner," Clifford returned stiffly, still under
						the influence of his revived fury. But at once he was himself again. "I beg your pardon,
						Dr. Peters, but this man here is responsible for all that has happened." And then: "He
						seems to have very much of a grouch against me -- rather natural, I suppose. He would
						n't  even say a word to me. What's the matter with
						him?"
					"What's the matter?" Dr. Peters repeated, looking at him keenly. Then he drew Clifford
						aside, out of Loveman's hearing. "All that's the matter with Mr. Loveman," he answered
						slowly, "is that the accident caused a hemorrhage affecting the sensory and motor
						portions of the brain causing a permanent aphasia."
					"What's that mean, doctor, in plain English?"
					"It means that he has permanently lost the use of legs and arms, and that he'll never
						speak again."
					Clifford stared. "But he seems to understand!" he cried.
					"He understands everything. His brain is as good as it ever was, and it will be as good
						as ever for perhaps thirty years to come. But by no possibility can he ever communicate
						to a second person what that brain is thinking of."
					Clifford stared at the doctor, mumbled something, and unsteadily walked out. In the
						corridor he leaned against a wall and drew a deep breath. As the full significance of
						the doctor's words sank in, he was awed, appalled. That great clear brain fated by the
						momentum of a life's habit to go on planning -- never to be able to put any of those
						plans into action himself -- never able to communicate a plan to an agent or accomplice
						-- but always planning -- tirelessly planning -- for thirty years or more! . ..
					After a time he straightened up and entered the  room
						of Hilton, who was in less pain, but who just then hated all mankind; and with Hilton he
						had a few grim, direct words. After that he had a few words with Jimmie Kelly, who was
						waiting below. Then he went back and sat down beside Mary, and briefly he told her what
						had befallen Loveman.
					Again they sat in silence, gazing out upon the harbor. Perhaps another hour passed.
						Then Mr. Morton entered. He was haggard and gray of face. Clifford and Mary rose.
					"Jack?" breathed Mary, moving toward him.
					Mr. Morton seemed at first unable to speak. But when his voice did issue, though husky
						and low, it was controlled and strangely emotionless.
					"Jack never regained consciousness," he said. "Jack -- Jack has just died."
				



				
				

					CHAPTER XXXIII
					

					
						THE STUFF IN MARY REGAN
					



					THERE was again a long silence. Clifford's heart leaped strangely at
						Morton's announcement, as perhaps hearts should not at words of death. Then Mr. Morton
						spoke once more, still in the low, controlled voice, his words and steady eyes directed
						at Mary.
					"I shall arrange to take Jack to Chicago. Since you are his widow, of course you will
						come along." And then the emotionless voice of this hard-driving man of great affairs
						broke with emotion. "And, Mary, -- I want you to come because you are my
						daughter-in-law. I know now you did all a woman could for Jack; I have come to respect
						you for what you are. You are all I have -- I need you, Mary. I hardly need tell you, --
						since it may make little difference to you, you are so strange, -- but all I have will
						go to you, and your life is to be the life of my daughter."
					Mary stood staring at him, loose-lipped, and did not speak. Clifford watched her, dazed
						by this last turn of circumstances. He saw the realities and prospects that Morton's
						words had given her. She now possessed, open and aboveboard, all that she had ever
						dreamed to gain by trickery -- yes, and  more! And she had
						it all unhampered! All these months he had tried to make Life test her -- and Life had
						responded by, in the end, giving her everything! 
					Still Mary did not speak. Mr. Morton went on, a note of urging, of reassurance, in his
						subdued voice:
					"And, Mary, -- whatever I may have said in the past, -- you have nothing to fear from
						me. You are my daughter, and you have my respect. And you have nothing to fear from any
						one else, since I know everything.... There's an afternoon train out of here; we'll be
						taking that, Mary."
					And then Mary spoke. Her voice was low, but its tone was steady.
					"I shall be willing -- and glad -- to do all I can to help. But I cannot go with you as
						your daughter."
					"What?" cried Mr. Morton. And then: "I don't understand."
					The low voice went on: -- 
					"I married Jack solely to make money and gain position. Even before last night I had
						decided never to take them. And now, after what has happened, even more can I never take
						them. Believe me, I mean no offense to you, but I cannot be your daughter-in-law."
					"What?" repeated Mr. Morton.
					Clifford gazed at her, stupefied.
					"While Jack lived my marriage to him was a secret," the low voice went on. "Now that he
						is dead, I prefer to have it continue to remain unknown, 
						if that can be managed. I think it can. If the few who know are made to believe that I
						am trying to force myself upon you, they will keep silent out of pure malice toward me.
						That is, I want it to remain unknown, unless Mr. Clifford needs my testimony to convict
						in his cases."
					"I don't think that will be necessary," said Clifford. "Loveman's case is closed. As
						for Bradley, Lieutenant Kelly found that Mordona necklace on him, and Hilton, seeing
						that the game is over, has just turned State's evidence and confessed that he and
						Bradley stole it. That should be sufficient to take care of Bradley."
					Mary turned again to Mr. Morton. "Then I prefer to have it all remain as it has been --
						unknown. I do not want even the profit out of this of having Jack's name."
					Then came a quick set to the jaw of this man long accustomed to having his own way.
						"But I can publicly proclaim you to be my daughter!"
					"But you will not," she returned quietly, "since I ask you not to."
					The set look continued for a moment. Then it relaxed.
					"All right -- just as you say." He drew an envelope from an inner pocket. "But if you
						will not accept my fortune, you cannot escape Jack's, for it is this moment
						automatically and legally yours." From the envelope -- it was the one Loveman had
						addressed in the car -- he drew out three slips of  paper
						and handed them to her. "There it is -- three checks totaling one hundred and eighty
						thousand dollars. And you do not need to reveal yourself as Jack's widow to get the
						money, since the checks are made out to 'Cash.' All you need to do is to deposit
						them."
					She gazed at the checks, then looked up at him. "If Jack had had no wife, I suppose his
						fortune would revert to you."
					"Naturally."
					"You understand, I can make nothing out of this -- nothing." Slowly she tore up the
						checks. "I can be of no service to you? -- or Jack?"
					"None. Except in ways you have refused."
					She turned to Clifford. "Am I needed here?"
					Clifford shook his head.
					"Then I think I'll be going back to town," she said quietly.
					Morton held out his hand, which she took. "You are the strangest person I ever knew,"
						he said huskily. "Good-bye, Mary, -- and -- and God bless you!"
					"Good-bye," said his daughter-in-law.
					She turned and went out. Clifford watched her as she passed through the broad hospital
						corridor and then disappeared down the wide stairway.
					"Mr. Morton," said Clifford, "I'm not needed either -- Lieutenant Kelly will remain in
						charge here. I'll be going back to the city, too."
					Mr. Morton gripped Clifford's hand. "Thanks,  Clifford --
						and good-bye." The habitually hard face softened yet further, and his voice lowered.
						"And, Clifford, -- you're a lucky man, if it turns out the way I think it will!"
					It did. In the deepening dusk of a month later, from an interior and out-of-the-way
						county seat whose records were rarely looked over by inquisitive eyes that had an
						interest in transmitting what they saw to New York City, Clifford was driving a small
						roadster at an easy pace, one passenger beside him. A few minutes before that passenger
						had undergone a change of name. In New York City, if all went as expected, it would
						merely be known that she had changed her name from Mary Regan to Mary Clifford.
					The marriage had been the ultimate achievement in privacy. No one had journeyed here
						with them. But one person, who had insisted on being taken into their confidence, had
						appeared discreetly and anonymously at the brief ceremony in the little court-house --
						Uncle George. And after the ceremony was over, he had kissed Mary with a simplicity, a
						sincerity, a tender dignity that sophisticated, cynical Broadway would have been amazed
						to see in its favorite.
					"Mary," -- his hands on both her shoulders, his voice quavering a bit, -- "I'm glad
						I've lived long enough to see the daughter of one old pal, and the niece of another old
						pal, definitely turn into this  road. Yes, I'm mighty
						glad. It's the only road that's worth traveling -- and I guess I ought to know. I know
						you're going to be happy. God bless you, my dear!" ...
					And now, as the pair moved easily through the closing twilight, all bars at last were
						down between these two -- all barriers of pride, of reserve, of reticence, of opposing
						wills, all the long masking of hearts. Their souls were very close together.
					They had been riding for several miles in silence, both still awed by what had just
						taken place in the little town behind them -- when Mary spoke softly: -- 
					"You promised to tell me when -- when this was over, what you and Commissioner Thorne
						were talking about this morning. Are n't you going to tell me what it was?"
					"Commissioner Thorne again offered me the position of Chief of the Detective
						Bureau."
					"And you?"
					"I turned it down."
					"It was a wonderful chance!" she exclaimed. "You refused because of me?"
					"No. But I thought you might think so; that's why I did n't want to tell you until
						everything was settled between you and me. I had thought it all out before. It was a big
						job he offered me, yes, -- but primarily it was an office job, a routine, adminstrative
						job. I wanted to be out where I would be in contact with people and their problems;
						where  instead of touching life only through the reports
						of subordinates, I would touch life at first hand. I felt that in my case I could be of
						more service in such a way. You understand?"
					"Yes," she said. "And I think, perhaps, -- if you'd let me, -- I could help at that
						kind of work."
					"I know you could!" said Clifford. He went on, after a brief pause: "And we talked of
						something else, Mary, -- the Chief and I. He told me again of that talk he had had with
						you when you went to him almost a year ago; and, Mary," -- his voice lowered, -- "our
						talk became for me a searchlight thrown backward upon all that has happened these last
						few months, and especially a searchlight upon you, Mary. You may have had many motives
						for deciding against me, and for doing what you did. But I now know there was one big
						motive which I never before fully realized, and of which you perhaps were never
						conscious."
					"And that?" she asked.
					"You did what you did partly because you loved me, and because you have loved me all
						along. You believed that for you to marry me would injure what you saw as a big public
						career for me; you thought you were not the right wife for me. As for Jack, you did n't
						really care for him -- and in the beginning you were n't concerned in what your action
						might mean to him. But me -- me you didn't want to hurt in any way." He repeated
						himself: "I see that clearly now -- even though you did not  know it, that was one of the motives that ruled you."
					"I would not dare say that in my own behalf," she whispered. And then she went on: "But
						if, after all, I have turned out what you thought me, it is because you believed in me
						so long -- and because your belief in me, and the way you handled me, forced me to
						become something different. . . . But it must have been hard for you -- very, very
						hard!"
					"It's been a thousand times worth it all, Mary," he breathed, "a thousand times worth
						it all!"
					He caught her hand and held it tight beneath his on the steering-wheel -- it was as
						though now they were jointly steering their united lives; and they sped on through the
						soft, star-blossoming night, in the silence of full understanding, southward toward the
						great city where so long they had fought each other, and where now at the last they were
						to begin to build a life together. 
				

				THE END


			
		



		
			

			
				
					The Riverside Press CAMBRIDGE . MASSACHUSETTS U .S. A

				
			


		

	
