
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. An invitation to you and your folks from Jim and some more of the
                    home folks. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8202
     ----FULL TEXT----
        

        

            

            

                
                    An Invitation to  You And your Folks from
                        Jim And Some More of the Home Folks
                    
                

                
                    COMPILED BY
                    
                    GEORGE ADE 
                    for
                    
                    
                        INDIANA HISTORICAL COMMISSION
                    
                


                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    
                    THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANYPUBLISHERS
                
            



            

            

                VERSO

                COPYRIGHT 1916
                INDIANA HISTORICAL COMMISSION
            

            

            

                INTRODUCTION
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    THIS little book is just what it says on the
                                    cover--an invitation to you and your folks from Jim and some
                                    more of the home folks. It is being sent to former residents of
                                    Indiana in the hope that they may be induced to come home for
                                    the big centennial celebrations of this good year 1916. Indiana
                                    is one hundred years old and the birthday party is going to be
                                    worth while. Every county in the State is going to celebrate and
                                    the home-coming of the Hoosiers will be a special attraction in
                                    every county celebration. It will be the first and probably the
                                    last and only chance that you, as a Hoosier, will have to meet
                                    your old friends at your old home. If you started out to visit
                                    the scattered friends of long ago, you would have to travel
                                    thousands of miles into far-distant states. This year you will
                                    find them assembled back home and you must be there to greet
                                    them.
                                
                                    
                                        G. A.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                

            


            
            

            

                THE HOOSIER IN EXILE
                
                    The Hoosier in Exile--a toast
                    That by its very sound
                    Moves us, at first, to tears almost,
                    And sympathy profound;
                    But musing for a little space,
                    We lift the glass and smile,
                    And poise it with a royal grace--
                    The Hoosier in Exile!
                
                
                    The Hoosier in Exile, forsooth!
                    For though his steps may roam
                    The earth's remotest bounds, in truth
                    His heart is ever home!
                    O loyal still to every tie
                    Of native fields and streams,
                    His boyhood friends, and paths whereby
                    He finds them in his dreams!
                
                
                    Though he may fare the thronging maze
                    Of alien city streets,
                    His thoughts are set in grassy ways
                    And woodlands' cool retreats;
                    Forever, clear and sweet above
                    The traffic's roar and din,
                    In breezy groves he hears the dove,
                    And is at peace within.
                

                

                
                    When newer friends and generous hands
                    Advance him, he returns
                    Due gratefulness, yet, pausing, stands
                    As one who strangely yearns
                    To pay still further thanks, but sighs
                    To think he knows not where,
                    Till--like as life--with misty eyes
                    He sees his mother there.
                
                
                    The Hoosier in Exile? Ah, well,
                    Accept the phrase, but know
                    The Hoosier heart must ever dwell
                    Where orchard blossoms grow
                    The whitest, apples reddest, and,
                    In cornlands, mile on mile,
                    The old homesteads forever stand--
                    "The Hoosier in Exile!"
                

                JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.
            

            
        

        

            

                AN INVITATION TO YOU


                

                
                
                    
                        
                            

                                THE GOVERNOR INVITES YOU


                                TO THE HOOSIERS EVERYWHERE:
                                Let me say to you, former sons and daughters of Indiana, those
                                    who have moved from your old Hoosier home--the home where you
                                    were first loved and where you first reciprocated love--that
                                    this year your mother State will celebrate the hundredth
                                    anniversary of her admission into the Union of States. I know
                                    you will be interested in that historic event. Some of you will
                                    want to return, because near the old home rest the remains of
                                    father and mother; and hallowed is the spot where their ashes
                                    lie. Some of you will want to return, because here you can
                                    regale yourselves anew with the stories and experiences you
                                    enjoyed in the flower of your youth, before you knew of the
                                    bitterness that comes with the breaking of family ties. Some of
                                    you will want to return to see how we, who have remained, have
                                    kept the old homestead--and the faith. You will find in many
                                    instances that the walls about and the hearthstone in the old
                                    house have been worn out by the heel of time and replaced in
                                    modern style to meet our demands. The old well, with its
                                    moss-covered bucket, is no more to be seen. The winding pathway
                                    down to the spring is no longer visible. Here and there, you
                                    will see that the roof on the old smoke-house has toppled in,
                                    and the barn, in which you played hide-and-seek and hid Easter
                                    eggs, has finally yielded to the elements.
                                And while these things will bring to you a touch of pathos and
                                    sorrow, on all hands the evidence of a happy people and a normal
                                    life--industrious, thrifty, and cultured--will bring gladness to
                                    your hearts. You will find that we are working out our destiny
                                    along broad lines. You will discover that we have been
                                    farsighted enough to know that we had to make our own fortunes
                                    and can not rely upon other persons or the State to make them
                                    for us. Having individually progressed through our own endeavor,
                                    we are now ambitious to make a creditable showing of our State's
                                    greatness; and you are asked, because of the ties that bind us
                                    together, not to fail to witness this display of Indiana's
                                    glory.
                                
                                    SAMUEL M. RALSTON.
                                    
                                             
            State House, Indianapolis,
   
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                
                
                    
                        
                            

                                THE VICE-PRESIDENT WRITES TO BILL

                                DEAR BILL:
                                You have been able to fool the people of your adopted State, but
                                    you can't fool me. They take you to be a staid and sober citizen
                                    bowed with the cares of state and society upon your shoulders.
                                    They think your cutaway coat and silk hat mark a mind of great
                                    solemnity. But I know better. These are but the disguises you
                                    use in detecting success and arresting it before it passes you
                                    by. And I am willing to grant that you have succeeded. But
                                    underneath that pompous and shellbark exterior of yours, you are
                                    still at heart a Hoosier. Secretly you have a pathetic longing
                                    for the good old days when you and I as young lawyers sat upon
                                    the Court House Square, whittled a pine knot and off-hand
                                    settled questions of great pith and moment. You know you would
                                    be far happier to be slapped upon the back and called "Bill"
                                    than you are to be funereally and everlastingly greeted as
                                    "Judge."
                                Well, we're going to turn back the hands upon the dial of time in
                                    Indiana this year. We're going to be young again. We're going to
                                    glory over the Past and live in it again for a little while.
                                    Listen to the promptings of your heart, my friend of yesteryear;
                                    take off your habiliments of dignity, come Home and live over
                                    and frolic in the Past for a while.
                                
                                    Your friend,
                                    TOM MARSHALL.
                                    
                                            
    The Vice-President's Chamber, 
Washington; D. C.,
        
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                CAN YOU RESIST THIS CALL?


                                TO OUR EX-HOOSIERS:
                                You are heartily invited to come back and join with us in
                                    celebrating our first Centennial. We wish to make it an event of
                                    phenomenal importance. Your presence is absolutely necessary; as
                                    well attempt to play Hamlet without having Hamlet in the cast.
                                    Our poets, novelists and humorists insist that you shall come;
                                    they are in the majority of our citizenship. By the way, they
                                    are no pacifists, unless it be our great humorist; they are for
                                    war at any cost.
                                We are going to have a great time. We have been preparing for it
                                    for one hundred years. This is the first opportunity to "pull
                                    off" a Centennial celebration and we are going to make the most
                                    of it. You will be proud you were born in Indiana; and ashamed
                                    that you left it. Great State! Great people! How much greater we
                                    would be if you had remained and aided us in State building.
                                    Noble commonwealth! Nature has enriched her beyond compare with
                                    far-reaching prospects; splendid rivers; attractive cities;
                                    noble men and beautiful women--a citizenship of lofty ideals.
                                    Indiana--great to-day, but destined to be greater to-morrow.
                                Indiana is the most delightful name in your vocabulary; it means
                                    more to you than any save one. Come back and quicken the sweet
                                    memories of yesterday; dream anew the dreams when life was young
                                    and the future glowed with happy antici- pation. The old
                                    homestead stands by the roadside--inviting you to return once
                                    more and be young again. Let us in the olden neighborly spirit
                                    of comradeship crown the first century of our Statehood with joy
                                    and thanksgiving. We bid you come--and come again.
                                
                                    In Hoosier bonds, Faithfully
                                        yours,
                                    CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS.
                                    
                                        
        Indianapolis,  
    
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                

                

                
                    
                        
                            
                                FROM THE HOOSIER OF HOOSIERS


                                DEAR FRIEND:
                                If it were given me to be infinitely persuasive, I would urge
                                    every Hoosier now outside the boundaries of the State to give
                                    himself the pleasure and delight of once more visiting the dear
                                    old Home and the relatives and the friends who are so eager to
                                    welcome his return. Don't say you can't come, but rather that
                                    you can't stay away.
                                For the old times' sake we all want you and await you with the
                                    warmest welcome.
                                
                                    All love and loyalty,
                                    JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.
                                    
                                        
Lockerbie Street, 
Indianapolis,
    
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                WHAT YOU WILL FIND


                                DEAR ABSENTEE:
                                Here is a cry of triumphant prophecy rightfully immortal. "The
                                    grand old State of Indiana," shouted Representative Sherman, of
                                    Decatur, in answer to Doc Yencer, of Wayne, "--the grand old
                                    State of Indiana will go crashing down the ages with her head up
                                    and her tail over the dashboard!"
                                Does this seem flamboyant? Not when we consider that all things,
                                    including modesty, are relative. Not when we com- pare it to
                                    patriotic orations made in the neighboring appanages of Ohio,
                                    Kentucky and Illinois. And it is, after all, though the voice be
                                    clarion, a mere announcement of fact: everybody knows that
                                    Indiana will go crashing down the ages with
                                    her head up and her tail over the dashboard!
                                Nobody challenges that. What you want to know
                                    is, whether or not Indiana is worth the time and money it would
                                    cost you to come back and visit when she celebrates her
                                    hundredth birth-year.
                                Well, it's the same old country of cricks and sycamores and
                                    corn-fields and pleasant smelling woods that you used to know;
                                    all pretty flattish, under the wide midland sky; all pretty
                                    quiet and homelike. You'll see siloes with nearly every
                                    barn--there weren't any in your boyhood--and you'll miss a great
                                    many of the old snake-fences. Of course, too, you'll miss most
                                    of the buggies and surreys that used to take the farmer to town.
                                    It's odd, nowadays, to see the touring-cars standing in the
                                    Square on Saturdays. But except for these things the county is
                                    still just about the same. In the towns you'll find the people
                                    walking home from church on Sunday in the shade of the maple
                                    trees, as of yore; and if you'll sit out on your uncle's porch,
                                    on Sunday afternoon, you'll still see the baby-carriage go by,
                                    on its way from dinner at grandfather's; and the parent pushing
                                    it may still be wearing a Prince Albert suit, a derby hat and a
                                    white satin four-in-hand tie. The towns have changed more than
                                    the country has; the big towns 
                                    especially. They aren't so pleasant to live in as they used to
                                    be; they're noisier, of course, and dirtier; and we burn soft
                                    coal, not minding how hard that is on the women. Then, too, we
                                    haven't done anything much to clean up our city politics--still
                                    pretty dirty that way; maybe a little worse than in your time. We've been building a great deal, of
                                    course; but we can't claim to have any architecture to show you,
                                    because you've traveled and seen better. We can't claim to have
                                    improved enough in the "arts of living," to astonish you.
                                When we get right down to it, all we've got to show you is
                                    Home--Home where you came from. Home and Folks. Of course, I'm
                                    speaking now without reference to any pageants and celebrations
                                    we'll get up for you. I'm speaking only of the part of your
                                    visit (if you decide to come) that would be really sentimental;
                                    and I wish I might awaken in you a mem- ory of Indiana which
                                    would make you feel what Indiana has been in you. If you feel
                                        that, there won't be much doubt of your
                                    coming back Home.
                                You know what it is, if you stop to think.
                                    There are plenty of words that almost express it; but no word or
                                    phrase in the language can express it quite. It takes the
                                    complete edition of Riley's poems to do it. And my own belief is
                                    that the Indiana in you is what makes you the realest American
                                    that can exist. The Home that gave you that is worth a lot of
                                    trouble to come back to. Oughtn't you to see what the old place
                                    "looks like" on such a Birthday?
                                
                                    BOOTH TARKINGTON.
                                    
                                            
Indianapolis,  
    
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                



                

                
                    
                        
                            
                                A LIMBERLOST INVITATION

                                
                                    Come where the chewink chewunketh,
                                    Come where wild grapevines swing;
                                    Come where the craw-dads are crawling
                                    Over the bed of our spring.
                                
                                
                                    Come where the sun in red glory
                                    Tops Kestler's tamaracks gray,
                                    Come where the black bass are leaping
                                    And the red-wings are calling all day.
                                
                                
                                    Come where the rattlesnake rattles
                                    While the kingfisher rattles also.
                                    Come where the horned owl is hooting
                                    And it rains at the call of the crow.
                                
                                
                                    Come where the hairbell is ringing
                                    While the bluebell its worship call tolls;
                                    Come where the vireo preaches,
                                    And the Hermit his vesper song rolls.
                                
                                
                                    Come where the polecat's perfuming
                                    Mingles with flower-scented air,
                                    Come to our swamp in its glory,
                                    Its joys we invite you to share.
                                
                                
                                    GENE STRATTON PORTER.
                                    
                                        
Limberlost Cabin, 
    Rome City, Indiana,
    
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                

                
                    
                        
                            
                                TO ALL FORMER BROWN COUNTYERS


                                HEAR YE! HEAR YE!
                                Indianny is a hunderd years ole this year an' th' anniversary 'll
                                    be celebrated in ever' county in th' State. T' all her sons an'
                                    daughters now scattered over th' United States ole Brown County
                                    extends a warm invitation t' return an' see th' changes. If
                                    you're married an' livin' in Iowa, or doin' well in Youngstown,
                                    Ohio; if you're hangin' on in New York, or livin' in Minnesota;
                                    if you're workin' in a automobile factory in Detroit, or stayin'
                                    in Kansas; if you're teachin' school in the Philippines, or
                                    solicitin' fer a vacuum cleaner in Illinois; if you're jest
                                    doin' fine in Texas, or on th' hummer in Oregon; if you're high
                                    up in th' councils o' th' nation, or a rear admiral on a busy
                                    bee coffee urn--no matter where you are or what you're doin'
                                    come home fer a visit. Come home an' see all th' new cement
                                    work, th' new verandas, th' railroad at Helmsburg an' th'
                                    sideburns of your early playmates, th' reclaimed table lands an'
                                    perpendicular apple farms. Hotel an' nickel the-ater
                                    accommodations fer all.
                                
                                    ABE MARTIN.
                                    
                                        Kin Hubbard,
                                        
Indianapolis,
    
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                
                

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                MY WANDERING BOY


                                TO THE EXILES OF INDIANA:
                                This is no time for recrimination. Indiana is about to cele-
                                    brate its one hundredth birthday; and, whatever may have been
                                    your excuse for leaving the best State in the Union, the
                                    faithful residents are willing to forgive and forget, and
                                    welcome you with open arms if you will come home and help
                                    celebrate. Will you come? Can you afford to stay out in the
                                    cold? Do you want more than two million people, whose voices are
                                    none too melodious at the best, to be singing "Where Is My
                                    Wandering Boy To-night?" Remember that this is probably the only
                                    Centennial anniversary of Indiana that you will have an
                                    opportunity to participate in, and come while the coming is
                                    good.
                                
                                    Centennially yours,
                                    J. P. DUNN.
                                    
                                        
Indianapolis,
    
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                YOU SIMPLY MUST COME BACK


                                YOU, AWAY OFF YONDER:
                                We want you to come back home! Sinner though you are for leaving
                                    the land of the sycamore and the pawpaw, we want you to come
                                    back. We're sitting at the station--at a thousand stations all
                                    the way from Gary to Lawrenceburg, and from the Wabash to the
                                    Whitewater, waiting for you. Come back and feel the pressure of
                                    our horny hands once more! Come back when the mint is green in
                                    the garden and the old jug tucked away in the spring-house, and
                                    stick your legs under the table and let us help you a second
                                    and, yea, a third time to ham hocks and potatoes boiled with the
                                    jackets on.
                                The grand old Hoosier State is a hundred years old and we want
                                    all you folks who belong here to come back and join in the
                                    chorus of jubilation. Come back to the farm and view the new
                                    wire fences and hear the telephone jingle, and watch the
                                    inter-urbans whizz by and see how much taller corn grows now
                                    that the boys have all been up to Purdue to learn book farmin'.
                                    Come back to your home town--to Peru and Balhinch and Ladoga and
                                    Seymour and see the new churches and the jails that were built
                                    specially for you! Come back to Indianapolis and sit on the
                                    banks of Fall Creek and count the automobiles on the boulevard;
                                    or try walking catercornered across Washington and Meridian
                                    Streets, the way you used to, but don't talk back to the traffic
                                    cop when he sasses you.
                                Back again, brother and sister, to your home State and your home
                                    town to renew your lost youth and make the rest of us feel good
                                    and mighty proud of you! Make your plans now to hit the trail,
                                    long or short, that will bring you back to the loved spots your
                                    infancy knew. We haven't missed you as much as we might, because
                                    we've been so blamed busy; but come along anyhow and let's see
                                    whether your dialect has lost its old zip and tang. Come at
                                    corn-planting time or come when the frost is on the punkin', or
                                    come when the first snow's snuggling down on the winter
                                    wheat--but COME!

                                

                                We've all had our overalls pressed in honor of your approach, and
                                    the girls are all dolled up and waiting at the gate in their
                                    pink sunbonnets--the kind you remember--and the rag carpet in
                                    the settin'-room is patched and the salt-risin' bread is in the
                                    south kitchen window!
                                Delays are dangerous. Indiana will never be a hundred years old
                                    again. Hustle out and get a time-table at once and plan your
                                    home-coming as though you were starting for holy land--which you
                                    will be!
                                And if the blood of a good Hoosier is in you you will not buy a
                                    return-trip ticket.
                                
                                    MEREDITH NICHOLSON.
                                    
                                        
        Indianapolis,
        
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                

                
                    
                        
                            
                                COME HOME AND REVERT TO TYPE


                                DEAR EX-HOOSIER:
                                Now is the time. We have schemed and planned for years for this.
                                    Of course it has been artful in us, but then we wanted to have
                                    you home again so very much.
                                If you are afraid you can not come because of something or other,
                                    forget it; manage the matter the way you used to manage things
                                    when you were a youngster and dead set upon doing something you
                                    could not do--but did anyhow. And if you think you do not wish
                                    to make the trip, just come on and see how you have
                                    misunderstood yourself. Wait till your train begins to pull in
                                    under the soft haze of the Indiana skies, over the benevolent
                                    brown fields, along the wooded creeks and through the echoing
                                    forests and you will find that every corpuscle of your
                                    double-dyed Hoosier blood has waked up and is feeling natural.
                                    You can't help it. The Hoosier pattern is inlaid and the colors
                                    go clear through to the other side. And though you have been
                                    away long enough to adopt the New York accent or the California
                                    exuberance, you are still a Hoosier and it shows!
                                Come home, then, and revert to type. We want to hear with pride
                                    about all that you have done; we want to tell you all that has
                                    happened since you went away; and we want to display you with
                                    pleasure, before the neighbors.
                                And when you are ready to go back--if you will insist!--you shall
                                    carry away with you so much of our affection and such pride in
                                    your native State that you will be objectionable to your other
                                    friends and envied by the Hoosiers who failed to accept the
                                    invitation.

                                
                                    Faithfully as always,
                                    ELIZABETH MILLER.
                                    
                                        
            Indianapolis,  
            
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                

                
                    
                        
                            

                                COME PLAY WITH US


                                
                                    My dear old friend, we're lonely here since you have gone
                                        away,
                                    I wish you'd drop your work a while and come to us and
                                        play.
                                    The roads are fine; they're just the thing to try your new
                                        machine,
                                    And our winding river bottoms are shady, still and green;
                                    The red-bird's song is clear and shrill throughout the
                                        livelong day,
                                    And the river flows as gently as before you went away,
                                    The bark upon the sycamore is just as smooth and white,
                                    And the moon as soft as ever in the warm, clear summer
                                        night!
                                
                                
                                    I hear you're getting famous, and the neighbors tell me
                                        how
                                    You've made your little pile of gold, but are you happier
                                        now?
                                    The city's din and clatter--do they fill your heart with
                                        joy,
                                    Like the fresh fields where you scampered as a merry
                                        bare-foot boy?
                                    Our boys are sliding down the mow, our poets writing
                                        rhymes
                                    And our statesmen talking tariffs that will bring us better
                                        times,
                                    While the landscape smiles serenely and the brooklet murmurs
                                        still,
                                    And the glory of the sunset lights the woodland on the
                                        hill!
                                

                                

                                
                                    We've straightened out our fences some to make the place look
                                        new,
                                    But the old barbed wire will bend a bit and let you scramble
                                        through,
                                    If you'll walk with me around the farm, and guess the
                                        summer's yield,
                                    And watch the stalks of yellow wheat a-waving thro' the
                                        field.
                                    How each heavy head hangs over, like your sweetheart's used
                                        to do,
                                    When it drooped to hide her blushes and the love she bore to
                                        you.
                                    Bring her along! The youngsters too, and let them romp and
                                        shout
                                    And ride the horses to the field and scratch their trousers
                                        out
                                    Among the bushes in the woods, the while we celebrate
                                    This hundredth year of honor of the dear old Hoosier
                                        State.
                                

                                
                                    WILLIAM DUDLEY FOULKE.
                                    
                                        
        Richmond, Indiana,
        
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                

                
                    
                        
                            

                                A RECALL


                                COME BACK, O FORMER HOOSIER!
                                Come back, O you Exiles, scattered far and wide over the bosom of
                                    old mother earth! Far away have you wandered; far, far away, led
                                    by the lure of gold, of travel or of love. But however far, ever
                                    and always have you had, deep in your souls, a longing for the
                                    old home, for the scenes of the golden days of childhood, the
                                    days when hills were mountains, when creeks were rivers, when
                                    ponds were lakes, when a chub or sunfish was bigger than a
                                    whale, when the hub of the universe was in or near the "little
                                    town of Tailholt" where you dwelt.
                                Then come back and satisfy for a few days or a few weeks that
                                    longing. Come back and fish once again in the streams where you
                                    fished when a boy or a girl. Come back and climb again the old
                                    familiar hills, or wander once more slowly down the old lane
                                    where at dusk you drove home the cows, or along the woodland
                                    paths where, in the first days of the great Spring Awakening,
                                    you gathered violets, blue-bells or turkey-peas. Come back and
                                    watch once again from the old attic window the sun rise as you
                                    watched it when a child, for it is the same sun rising again
                                    with the same glorious golden yellow beams. With the lore and
                                    the wisdom gathered through the years that have passed you have
                                    perhaps gathered a new love for it, and from the attic window
                                    you can pay your obeisance unto it and exclaim:
                                All weather, all measure of time, all energy, all life, all work
                                    of man or other lowly creatures here on earth, all of
                                    everything, which is, has been, or will be, is from the
                                    beginning to the end at thy mercy and upon thee dependent, O my
                                    Sun!
                                
                                    "Once again thou flamest heavenward,
                                    Once again we see thee rise,
                                    Thee the God-like, thee the changeless,
                                    In thine ever changing skies."
                                

                                

                                Yes, come back and be a boy--a girl again. Your old friends, many
                                    of them, may not greet you, for they have passed beyond, and
                                    their bodies have gone to form a part of the surface mold of
                                    mother earth, but the old familiar spots of the mother will
                                    greet you as heartily as of yore. Her brooks will babble as
                                    joyously, her birds will sing as blithely, her bass and
                                    goggle-eyes and catfish will bite as greedily, the violets and
                                    golden-rod and everlasting will nod you a welcome as gracefully,
                                    and the water from the old spring or the rock-walled well will
                                    sparkle and taste as in the olden days. If it be in June time
                                    the mulberry or the wild raspberry will color your æsophagus as
                                    deep a hue of purple as in days of yore, or if September the
                                    luscious meat of the pawpaw will tickle your palate as in years
                                    agone.
                                Come back, and, after the days or weeks of your rejuvena- tion
                                    have passed, you can return to your present homes and tasks with
                                    faces bronzed, with heart blood filling every tiny vein, with
                                    mind envigored and with soul content. The smiles and greetings
                                    of the loved ones or of your old friends will be long remembered
                                    and will well up from memory's cells to make more joyful many a
                                    future day, and a new and more loyal love for the old Hoosier
                                    State will be engendered in your souls. Then come back.
                                
                                    W. S. BLATCHLEY.
                                    
                                        
        Indianapolis,
        
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                



                


                
                    
                        
                            
                                FROM "THE COUNTRY CONTRIBUTOR"


                                DEAR FOLKS FROM THE FAR WEST:
                                Are you coming home for our Centennial celebration this year? It
                                    is a long time since you went away, yet I venture to say the
                                    scenes of your childhood still constitute home in your most
                                    intimate fireside reveries. Of course you will be wishing for
                                    things to look exactly as they did when you went away--even to
                                    the old cupboard behind Grandmother's kitchen stove and the
                                    "entry" where the side-saddles and bridles and riding skirts
                                    hung and where there was always a basket of hickory nuts with a
                                    hammer and a flat iron in it. You will be wishing to see the big
                                    village yards with picket fences and old-fashioned roses
                                    tumbling over arbors leading to front doors where gentle-faced
                                    women with scents of spices clinging about them wait with
                                    outstretched hands to welcome you.
                                Last fall the Hadleys came back and we all turned out to meet
                                    them--what is left of us--and although the many.changes clutched
                                    our hearts now and then with the impulse to weep--we walked the
                                    old streets together hand in hand, reconstructed the vanished
                                    houses and peopled the town with remembered folks. We played the
                                    old duets, sang the old songs, danced the old quadrilles, and
                                    prayed the old prayers which are their own answer--and we all
                                    agreed that it was worth while--this home coming.
                                Yes--it is all changed--the woods are cut down--impertinent new
                                    houses stand where the lovely age-tinted old homes blurred into
                                    the landscape long ago when we were uncon- sciously
                                    artistic.
                                The automobiles are as thick as hops, and electric lights and
                                    acetylene have long outshone the candlelight beacon that is
                                    luring you back to home and old times. But there are hearts here
                                    which have not changed through the long years and there are
                                    faces which reflect all that you are longing for. There are
                                    people who remember. And there is fun here, too, for we would
                                    not be Hoosiers if we did not know how to laugh. I still  remember a few stories about Old
                                    Plute, our dog, and Nerve Cheesewright can still say the
                                    inimitable things that make you laugh till the tears come.
                                It is because you are wishing to see the old home as it used to
                                    be, not as it is, that I want you to come--you wouldn't be worth
                                    killing if you didn't love the old times with all their
                                    hardships and inconveniences, if you didn't long whole-heartedly
                                    to see something to remind you of the days when we used to be
                                    "so happy and so pore."
                                Come on--come on and let's talk it over--let's live it over, not
                                    with senile and bitter regret but with joyous memories and glad
                                    faces--and brave hearts for the onward march after our interlude
                                    of inviting the past for a brief visit.
                                Come home--come home a while!
                                
                                    JULIET V. STRAUSS.
                                    
                                        
        Rockville, Indiana,
        
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                

                
                    
                        
                            
                                SHIPS RETURNING HOME


                                TO THE HOOSIERS:
                                We are all ships returning home laden with life's experiences,
                                    memories of work, good times and sorrow, each with his especial
                                    cargo. And it is our common lot to show the marks of the voyage,
                                    here a shattered prow, there a patched rigging, and every hulk
                                    turned black by the unceasing batter of the restless wave. May
                                    we be thankful for fair weather and smooth seas, and in times of
                                    storm have the courage and patience that mark every good
                                    mariner. And at least once again may we have the cheering hours
                                    of joyful meetings in dear old Indiana,before our ships at last
                                    drop anchor in the still waters of the eternal harbor.
                                
                                    MAX EHRMANN.
                                    
                                        
        Terre Haute, Indiana,
        
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                
                
                    THE BEANS GIVE THE "SEAL" OF APPROVAL
                

                

                
                    
                        
                            
                                GOD BLESS OLD INDIANA!


                                
                                    God bless old Indiana, child of the pioneers;
                                    In the solitude of swamp and wood, they built for future
                                        years;
                                    Braving the dangers of trackless wilds, patient to work and
                                        wait,
                                    Till the clearings about their cabins merged into a mighty
                                        state.
                                
                                
                                    God bless old Indiana! Hers is no heritage
                                    Of blood-bought glory of kingly lines come down from another
                                        age;
                                    But hers is the glory of empire won for the happiness of
                                        men,
                                    Of cities builded, and harvests reaped, where once there were
                                        bog and fen.
                                
                                
                                    God bless old Indiana! Hers are no cities great,
                                    Where crime and poverty cast the shadow of suffering turned
                                        to hate;
                                    But hers is a country of open skies, and of open heart and
                                        hand.
                                    Where God's own sunshine unhindered falls on another Promised
                                        Land.
                                
                                
                                    God bless old Indiana! Wherever the Flag has gone,
                                    In the roaring hell of shot and shell her soldiers have
                                        followed on;
                                    She has yielded her blood and treasure, and whatever the
                                        sacrifice
                                    Needful to prove her devotion, she has willingly paid the
                                        price.
                                
                                
                                    God bless old Indiana! And let us lovingly toast
                                    A land where the home is high enthroned--a country whose
                                        highest boast
                                    Is not the deeds of a distant past, of riches or martial
                                        fame--
                                    But that happiness, like the sunshine, falls on all her homes
                                        the same.
                                

                                

                                
                                    God bless old Indiana! And keep her a happy State;
                                    Give to her sons of the years to come the spirit that made
                                        her great.
                                    Deep and serene as her forests, and strong as their mighty
                                        trees--
                                    Such were the old-time Hoosiers, O God, give us men like
                                        these!
                                

                                
                                    GEORGE B. LOCKWOOD.
                                    
                                        
        Muncie, Indiana,
        
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                


                

                
                    
                        
                            

                                "P. S."--MEANING "PLEASE START"

                                FRIEND HOOSIER:
                                The letters that you have read are just a few that I have
                                    collected and sent on to you, hoping to inoculate you with
                                    homesickness and lure you back to the old stamping-ground. The
                                    home paper will give you the date of your county celebration.
                                    All the world will hear of the celebration at Indianapolis in
                                    the autumn. It will be the climax of the whole jubilee. We hope
                                    that you can come in time for the doings in your own bailiwick
                                    and then stay over for the big show at Indianapolis.
                                Perhaps the railroads will be induced to give special rates to
                                    the returning wanderers. I am sure that the spare bedroom and
                                    the fried spring chicken are awaiting you at this end of the
                                    line.
                                The Indiana Historical Commission is starting a nationwide
                                    campaign to bring the sons and daughters back home this year.
                                    Can you afford to be absent from this wonderful reunion? 
                                
                                    Sincerely,
                                    GEORGE ADE.
                                    
                                        
            Brook, Indiana,
            
                                        1916.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                

            
        

    
