
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Anderson, Carl.. With pad and pencil. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8205
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		


			
			
				With Pad and Pencil
				By Carl Anderson
			

			

			


			


			
			
				
					WITH PAD AND PENCIL
				
				BY CARL ANDERSON
			

			
				
						A collecction of verses, written over a period of thirty-five years. Jotted down,
							with pad and pencil at od d tines, mostly for newspaper use. We hope you'll like
							them.
					
			


			
			
				DEDICATORY.
				
					To thy hills, thy vales, thy waters,
					To thy every shady nook.
					To thee and thine, Sweet Owen,
					Do I dedicate this book.
				
				--THE AUTHOR
			
		
		

			
			
				With Pad and Pencil
				
					Poems
					
						Old Owen's Beauty Spots

						
							
								THY Sons, O! Sweet old Owen,
								Where 'er they cast their lots,
								Find their hearts are always longing
								For thine own dear Beauty Spots.
							
						

						
							BOONE'S CAVE

							
								The chilling breath from out thy rock-ribbed lungs
								Seems whispering with awe-struck, fear-bound tongues
								Of dismal secrets locked within thy breast:
								Of grewsome mysteries still unconfessed.
								Who fashioned thus thy labyrinth of halls?
								Thy stone-arched aisles? Thy quaintly chiseled walls?
								Who wrought thy comes in chastest filigree
								And locked them with eternal masonry?
								In silence doth thy solitude proclaim,
								And waking echoes catch, repeat, the game
								Of Him who wrought thine every winding rod--
								The multiplying echoes answer "God."
							
						

						
							M'CORMICK'S CREEK

							
								Sparkling in the mellow sunlight, darkening in the cooling shades
								Thy tinkling, jingling rivulet glides onward through the glades.
								Innocently brawling, brawling,
								Constantly keeps calling, calling.
								To the echoes that are hidden in thy grim old paisades.
								Slipping ever onward through thy moss-grown, fern-clad halls;
								Onward, ever onward to thy roaring, foaming falls
								Where thy tinkling obligato,
								And thy rushing pizzicato.
								In a wildly-weird crescendo fills thy rugged, massive walls.
							
						

						
							CATARACT

							
								Drowsily, lazily drifting along,
								Like the soft undercurrent of some old sweet song,
								In eddying swirl,
								Till caught in the whirl,
								It goes, laughingly, recklessly, carelessly on.




								
								Heedless of battering, shattering knocks,
								Heedless of quivering, shivering shocks,
								It eddies and seethes,
								Then laughingly wreathes
								Around and about--over--under the rocks.
							

							
								Faster--still faster, and then with a dash,
								Over the brink in a maddening splash.
								Lunging and clattering,
								Plunging and splattering,
								It strikes on the rocks with a deafening crash.
								Then seemingly dazed by its wild flight through space
								It giddily whirls from the seething embrace:
								From the tumbling and turning,
								From the rumbling and churning--
								Then away once again on its oceanward race.
							
						

						
							AMONG SWEET OWEN'S HILLS

							
								There's happiness and freedom; naught of care
								Disturbs the Sweet soul-quiet hov'ring there,
								And the brooklets' tinkling jingle,
								Ripples forth to softly mingle
								With the wealth of Nature's music in the air.

								There's a sweet and sleepy langour in the breeze--
								There's a lullaby soft whispered by the trees--
								And the hills, all blue and hazy,
								Melt away in phantoms mazy,
								There's a beauty wrapped in everything one sees.

								A cadence through the woodland softly thrills;
								The dashing, sparkling rhythm of the rills
								Wand'ring from the cooling glade
								Mottled by the sun and shade:--
								There's health and wealth among Sweet Owen's hills.
							
						
					




					
					
						Back From the Phillippines

						
							SILENT she sits the long night through,
							Her cheeks red-lined by the scalding dew
							That wells to the lashes and wavering there,
							Slips silently down through the lines of care.
							As clouds that cross December skies,
							So creeps the mist o'er the toil-tired eyes
							Of the mother that listlessly, lifelessly leans
							O'er the flag-draped box from the Philippines.
						

						
							What matter to her what the flower-wreathes are for?
							What comfort finds she in the Honors of War?
							She recks not of tribute nor pageantry's tread;
							Honors heaped Heaven-high can not give back her dead.
							The heart-strings are severed--torn--wrenched from their place,
							And Agony draws deeper lines on the face
							Of the mother that listessly, lifelessly leans
							O'er the flag-draped box from the Philippines.
						

						
							She thinks not of glory on battle-fields won;
							She only remembers that this was her son;--
							The head droops still lower; the eyes are grief-blind,
							And the toil-palsied hands lie, with fingers entwined,
							In the old family Bible that rests on her knees,
							While she gazes through tears at its pages and sees
							Only roses--the flag--and the wreathed evergreen,
							And the face in the box from the Philippines.
						
					


					
					
						When th' Greens Gits Ripe

						
							Ever' feller has his season an' he thinks it beats 'em all,
							Some likes summer, some likes winter, while some others likes th' fall;
							But fer me they's jes' one season knocks 'em all out with a swipe,
							An' it's th' laughin' days o' spring-time when the greens
							gits
							ripe.
						

						
							Ye can talk about Delmonico's big flarin' bill o' fare,
							An' th' bang-up scrumshus dinners and the way they serve 'em there,
							With their soups an' oyster salads an' their meals o' pickled tripe
							But they can't beat country dinners when the greens
							gits
							ripe.
						

						
							I hev e't at tavern tables whar 'twuz fixed up out o' sight
							With cut glass goblets full o' wine that moved itse'f aright:
							I hev e't the chicken fricaseed, an' quail on toast, an' snipe,
							But the hull thing takes a back seat when the greens
							gits
							ripe.
						
					


					
						Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument
						Indianapolis
						
							What means this mighlty tribute carved with shapes in garb of War?
							What means this pile of stone high-heaped? What is it builded for?
							Does it typify a Union from the depths of chaos wrought,
							And the lives splashed out in crimson in the awful battles fought?
							Does it speak alone of lives dashed out on sunny southern fens:
							Of souls cramped--sickened--starved--that fled from reeking prison pens?
							Is it only to the victors furloughed to their last sweet sleep,
							In camp in God's own country where the angels sentry keep?
						

						
							Rather let it tell the loved ones who are left to mourn the loss,
							They shall meet them at the river--they are waiting just across,
							In a bivouac of slumber on the bright and shining shore,
							Where the muskets' spiteful rattle wakes the echoes nevermore;
							Where the flags of truce are flying and the war-drum is at rest,
							Where gaping wounds by angel hands have tenderly been dressed.
							Where the long forced-march is ended, and where wars have ceased to be,
							And the men who marched with Sherman are encamped with those of Lee.
						
					



					
					
						Down on Pogue's Run

						
							
								We used t' have th' mostest fun
								When we lived out on Pogue's Run,
								Wadin' 'round an' gittin' wet
								An huntin' minners. Fun! you bet!
								All kinds o' fun.
								But we'd all 'ist run pell-mell--
								'Ist go a kitin' when we'd hear ma yell:
								"Git out o' that, chillern, 'taint worth while
								Fer they 'aint a minner 'n a thousan' mile
								O' ole Pogue's Run."
							

							
								But I've seen 'em an' I've ketched 'em.
								An' I know they's minners there--
								An' ma says we'll git o'r feet wet
								But, goo'ness, we don't care,
								'Cause 'at's 'ist fun.
								An' thy's crawdads, too, an' tadpoles
								A-swimmin' 'round about--
								But th' crawdads, they hide under rocks
								An' ye got to skeer 'em out,
								Down 'n Pogue's Run.
							

							
								Jew know 'at li'l' tadpoles
								Wuz li'l' frogs? They are;
								'Cause onct I ketched a tadpole
								An' put 'im in a jar
								Down at Pogue's Run.
								An' changed the water ever' day
								Fer 'bout a week, 'twuz--
								'Nen one day I looked ag'in
								An' he's a li'l' frog, he wuz--
								Gee, 't'uz fun.
							
						

						
							Bumblers

							
								Down on the crick at grampa's
								Some bumblers had a nest,
								An' Ben tole me t' stir 'em up,
								'Cause I could do it best.
								I did, an' nem ole bumblers
								'Ist bumbled with a roar.
								'N'ey stinged me, too, 'at's what they did.
								An'--I don't stir up no more.
							
						
					




					
					
						
							RILEY SMITH
							He's six foot seven an' ever' inch Could stretch a little 'n a pinch
								An' make him tall.
						




						
						Riley Smith

						
							Tall? Well, stranger, th' answer all
							Depends on what a feller'd call
							Bein' tall.
							But ef I's as long drawed out as him
							An' as lank an' bony an' ga'nt an' slim
							I'd think I's tall.
							He' got th' symptoms anyway,
							An' out'ard signs all seem t'say
							He's tall.
							He's six foot seven an' ever inch
							Could stretch a little in a pinch
							An' make him tall.
							Is Riley tall? Well, I've heern tell
							He kaint git under his umberell;
							Tall?
							Climbs a ladder t' put on his hat
							An' gits on th' top round, too, at that:
							That's jist how tall.
							Lives over where the counties jine;
							House sets right squar' on th' line
							Just half an' half--
							Main ,room's in Owen--this side ye know--
							An' he eats his breakfas' in ole Monroe:--
							What makes ye laugh?
							Oh! How does he sleep? Well, folks all say
							His feet p'int east an' his head this way
							An' ever night
							He snores in Owen--jess so. jess so--
							An' kicks th' kivers in ole Monroe.
							That's right.
							He chaws t'backer an' chaws it thin--
							Carries the symptoms on his chin--
							An' you can tell
							It aint no store stuff off'n a shelf
							But ole long-green he's raised his self--
							An' he chaws 'er well.
							Went down South in Sixty-one,
							Jined th' army an' shouldered a gun,--
							But th' boys'd laugh
							An' holler at him an' say "Dag gone!
							Fellers, le's tie the ole flag on
							This walkin' flag-staff."
							But. stranger, Riley he's clean grit
							An' he stuck to it an' fit an' fit
							Clean thro' it all;
							An' he's loyal yit clean t' th' core
							Same ez he wuz in 'Sixty-four--
							As loyal as he's tall.
							He's allus th' center uv starin' eyes
							An' th' cause o' wonder an' mild surprise:--
							Compare him with
							New circus bills stuck on a fence.
							An' they wouldn't be a circumstance
							To Riley Smith.
						
					






					
					
						Sun Dogs
						
							Onct, Uncle Joe he told us 'bout th' Sun-dogs he had seen,
							An' he 'splained all 'bout what Sun-dogs is an' told us what they mean,
							An' he says when ye see 'em, 'at ye'd better mind yer biz,
							Fer the cold 'll git still colder an' th' stuff 'll all git friz.
						

						
							An' he says Sun-dogs never fails, an' don't keer what ye say--
							An' says he'll bank on Sun-dogs same's the Bible--any day;
							Fer he's watched 'em since he wuz a boy and lived in Tennessee
							An' three days f'm when ye see 'em she 'll be cold as cold kin be.
						

						
							He's a crank on Sun-dogs, an' all other kind o' signs--
							Says there's nothin' like odd numbers, sich as ones, an' threes, an' nines,
							An' he says 'taint no differ'nce if it's cold as it kin git,
							When ye see them Sun-dogs loomin' up, it'll be STILL COLDER YIT.
						
					


					
						First Sweetheart of Mine Apologies To
							Riley.
						
							In turning through an album in a retrospective haze,
							I behold the pictured faces of my friends of yesterdays,
							And o'er one I linger fondly and with thoughts that seem divine
							Come back the boyhood memories of this first sweetheart of mine.
							Still I see her as in days gone by when life seemed doubly sweet,
							And the earth with flowers blossomed 'neath her dainty tripping feet,
							And to me all things seemed dearer, and the sun would brighter
								shine
							When I stood in the presence of this first sweetheart of mine.
							As I look upon her picture now it seems to fairly beam,
							As though thinking with me of the days of our first young sweet dream:
							And the long years melt to nothing and in shadowy design
							She is with me as in days of yore, this first sweetheart of mine.
							She is with me now, in memory, in the moonlight walks we took:
							She is with me in the school-room, where I, hid behind my book,
							Seemed so lost in honest study, but in truth read not a line,
							But kept glancing, o'er the top at her, this first sweetheart of
								mine.
							So I think of her as fondly as I did in olden days,
							And my thoughts go drifting backward in a sweet chaotic maze:
							And on the page of Memory I read the interline,
							The autograph, unfaded, of this first sweetheart of mine.
						
					






					
					
						The Absent Owen Countians

						
							You absent Owen county folks, this issue's meant for you
							An' through its newsy columns we're a-sayin' "Howdy do."
							We greet you all where'er you be an' wish you Fortune's best,
							But kinda git t' wishin' you had stayed here with the rest.
						

						
							You may be makin' money, er you may be "pressin' brick,"
							An' it maybe you are ailin', er you may be down-right sick;
							You may be in th' busy marts--er off th' beaten track,
							But all you Owen county folks, we're wishin' you was back.
						

						
							We'd like t' shake yer hands ag'in an' greet you with a smile,
							We'd like t' talk th' old times o'er an' hear You talk awhile;
							We'd like t' hear your happy laugh, er hear your tale o' woe--
							Whatever is your lot in life is what we'd like t' know
						

						
							You may be down, you may be out, you may be lousy rich,
							But we'd like t' set an' talk awhile about old times an' sich;
							An' so dear Owen county folks, whatever fix you're in,
							We'd like t' have you with us, back here at home ag'in.
						

						
							We hope that you'll remember, as yer travelin' all about,
							That here in old Sweet Owen th' latchstring's allus out;
							An' when you pass our way some day jist stop an' set awhile
							An' talk about th' old home place an' let us see you smile.
						

						
							We're interested in you all, in good luck or in bad,
							We'll laugh with you in happiness or cheer you when you're sad.
							You're scattered o'er th' continent, f'm Cape Horn clear t' Nome--
							But makes no difference where yer at, we wish that you'd come home.
						
					

					
						The Kid of It

						
							The "beautiful snow" they prate about
							Is nothing but idle talk;
							The snow itself is pretty--but
							I gotta clean off the walk.
						

						
							They talk of summer's beauty
							With its wealth of green--alas;
							Of course the green is pleasing--but
							I gotta cut the grass.
						

						
							They sing of autumn's splendor,
							And gathering in the sheaves;
							The colors of fall are wonderful--but
							I gotta rake up the leaves.
						
					



					

					
						Good St. Patrick's Day

						
							Oh, today's the day the Irish love in Good St. Patrick's name,
							'Tis the one great day we cilibrate--here's drinkin' to the same;
							Here's yer health an' all yer family's-hope they all live long, and may
							Th' blessings of high heaven rist on all of you today.
						

						
							For the Irish Iove th' comin' of the good St. Patrick's Day.
							Yes the Irish love th' blarin' of the bands along th' way
							As they play the lively Irish tunes and every gay colleen
							In joinin' in th' singin' of "Th' Wearin' of the Green."
						

						
							So I've got me kelly slicked up and me green sash pressed anew
							And me good shilaly's handy if a fracas starts t' brew;
							I'm all ready for th' marchin' when the band begins t' play
							And me legs have got th' fidgets fer th' line t' swing away.
						

						
							So we'll have th' pipers play for us the tunes we love t' hear--
							Mauvourneen an' Killarney an' th' songs of Irish cheer;
							For we're cilibratin', mind ye, and the shamrock is th' Queen
							Of Irish hearts now throbbin' to "The Wearin' of the Green."
						
					






					

					
						A Vacant Chair

						
							
								Sitting in the mellow twilight
								Sadly thinking of my child,
								Gazing at her empty rocker,
								Wrestling with an anguish wild;
							

							
								As I watch this last reminder
								Of my darling little girl,
								It fades into a phantom
								And my thoughts are all a-whirl.
							

							
								Sweetly now my darling's sleeping
								'Neath the star-besprinkled skies;
								Grief is tugging at my heartstrings,
								Scalding tears bedim my eyes.
							

							
								There it stands, just where she left it,
								And I seem to see her still,
								Singing to her darling dolly
								As darling children will.
							

							
								Only the vacant rocker
								Of my sweet faced little child,
								Left in the mellow moonlight,
								Causing all this anguish wild.
							

							
								Only a vacant rocker
								Sitting there against the wall
								Filling my soul with throbbing pain,
								A vacant chair, that's all.
							

							
								Vainly then I call my darling
								But she answers not my call;
								Nothing but the echoes answer,
								Mocking echoes, that is all.
							

							
								She is sleeping, sweetly sleeping,
								And she dreams of angels bright,
								While I cuss that pesky rocker
								That I'd kicked with all my might.
							
						

						
							EXIT!

							
								The bandit called at the banker's home;
								Went in to ask a ransom.
								He entered at the big front door
								But came out through the transom.
							
						
					



					

					
						A Ramshackle Shack

						
							I'se roamed about dis white man's land
							Up nawth an' east an' west;
							But dey's a spot in Tennessee
							Dat seems t' suit me best.
							It's my home place, my mammy's dere
							An' it's where I long ter be--
							A ramshackle shack on Happy Hill
							In sunny Tennessee.
						

						
							I'se rambled roun' faw sev-el years
							T' see what I could see;
							I've had good jobs an' got good pay,
							But money's junk t' me.
							I want t' loaf in de cabin's shade
							Beside my mammy's knee
							At a ramshackle shack on Happy Hill
							In sunny Tennessee.
						

						
							No roses bloom, no shade-trees spread
							In mammy's big front yard--
							De sun beats down on de yaller clay
							An' bakes it dry an' hard.
							But mammy's dere, an' de picanins,
							An' de place is home t' me--



							

							Dat ramshackle shack on Happy Hill
							In Sunny Tennessee.
						

						
							De trees cain't grow; de cotton fails;
							De grass cain't even sprout;
							De landscape's dead an' desolate
							An' de lime stone's croppin' out;
							It's not a place t' advertise
							But, folks, it's home ter me--
							Dat ramshackle shack on Happy Hill
							In Sunny Tennessee.
						

						
							Dey got no stock 'cept fo' houn' dawgs,
							Cain't even keep a cow.
							De lan's too po' faw groun' hawgs--
							It's plum no good, I vow;
							But rough as 'tis an' po' as' tis,
							De place am callin' me--
							Dat ramshackle shack on Happy Hill
							In Sunny Tennessee.
						
					


					
						To a Small Chinese Idol
						
							Cold, pulseless, speechless, heartless thing!
							With eyes that cannot see,
							With hands that feel not; deaf thine ears;
							Yet man once bowed to thee!
							In ignorance blind, with foolish fear
							Proud man was sore dismayed,
							And knelt before thee, bared his head,
							And to thee loudly prayed.
							A brazen image, nothing more,
							With palm leaf fan in hand.
							And sash of office round thee girt--
							Relic of a heathen land.
							Thou once sat on a gilded throne
							In ages gone, and sat in state;
							Now on my desk thou'rt roughly thrown--
							You're nothing but a paper weight.
						
					




					
					
						Kin Folks

						
							Long last summer when th' days was hot
							An' th' sun come b'ilin' down
							An' cooked an' sizzled an' br'iled th' crops
							Till things was 'bout done brown,
							I got lazy an' packed my duds
							An' pulled out fer th' woods
							T' see my kin; none of 'em rich
							In th' way of earthly goods.
							But they all got plenty o' eatin' stuff
							An' a man don't need t' starve
							Long's he's got th' nerve t' eat
							An' grit an' muscle t' carve
							A turkey er duck er muscled hen;
							An' if he asks fer what he wants
							They'll feed him an' they'll fill'im up
							Till he jist about busts his pants.
							They don't have no fancy stuff
							An' there aint no bill o' fare,
							But they set yuh down t' a table
							An' all th' grub's right there
							Before yuh an' yuh jist pitch in
							An' he'p yerse'f, an' eat.
							An' th' meat aint tough, like leather,
							But nice an' juicy an' sweet.
							Down in that old strip o' woods
							I jist got kin folks by th' dozens;
							Old an' young, an' little an' big--
							Uncles an' aunts an' little cousins.
							There's Aunt Jenny an' her two girls,
							L'elly an' Annie--cutest things!
							Annie's nicknamed "Wiggles" 'cause
							She hops around like set on springs.
							An' tease a feller! She's a sight;
							Never lets yuh rest a minnit,
							An' if any devilment's goin' on
							Yuh can bet on Wiggles bein' in it.
							There's ole Aunt Sis an' Uncle George
							An' Ben an' El' an' Pearl:
							Ben, he's married an' folks all say
							That El's got his eye on a girl.
							An' Bachelor Jim, th' good old soul,
							Couldn't leave out him.



							

							If anything's t' be done down there
							They first ask Uncle Jim.
							An' Ol an' Idy that lives there close,
							An' others up at Butlerville.
							An' Seph Russell! When I see Seph
							I laugh jist fit t' kill,
							He's so daggone tall. Why, he jist looks
							Like a telegraph pole--he's jist all legs,
							An' then he steps s' easy an' nice,
							Jist like he's walkin' on eggs.
							There's Gran'ma Brown, she's gittin' old
							An' wrinkled an' about broke down;
							An' she tells tales 'bout ghosts an' things
							An' booger-men that lives in town.
							Down in that little strip o' woods
							I jist got kin folks by th' dozens--
							Old an' young, little an' big,
							Uncles an' aunts an' little cousins.
							Ain't none of 'em wealthy,
							But what they got, they gives,
							An' I'm tellin' yuh my kin folks
							Is th' best kin folks that lives.
						
					

					
						Our Old Horse


						
							Our ole yeller horse is dead,
							Plumb dead, ain't he, paw?
							An' all 'us cried; paw cried,
							An' maw; didn't yuh, maw
							He fell an' broke his leg--'ist--
							'Ist, broke it; so paw
							An' th' hired man tooked a axe
							An' killed him; di'n' they, maw?
						

						
							An' buried. him out 'n our
							Garden so me an' maw
							Can put flo'rs on it an'
							Fix th' grave; didn' yuh paw?
							He's a good ole horse, he wuz
							'Ist 's gentle; wuzn't he, paw?
							An' 'I 'spect he's gone to th'
							Good place; aint he maw?
						
					





					

					
						The Old Time Games

						
							What has become of the old time games
							That we kids used to play?
							Have they served their time; gone out of date
							In this more modern day?
						

						
							We never hear of Hare-and Hounds
							Or Go-Sheep-Go, or Fox.
							Nor Duck-on-Davy, the old time game
							We played with heavy rocks.
						

						
							We never hear, these days, of Scrub,
							Long-Town or One-Eyed Cat.
							Or Post, or Dump-the-Apple-Cart
							Or anything like that.
						

						
							We kids all used to run and jump,
							And wrestle. Set-the-stake;
							Whole or Half-Hammon jumping bouts
							That made the muscles ache.
						

						
							We never see the kids play Keeps
							As they trudge their way to school;
							The marble games are not the same,
							Not even Rolly-Hole.
						

						
							There's Denny-Ready; Mumble-Peg;
							And the old time Black-Man game;
							Hide-and-Seek's not heard of now--
							These things are all too tame.
						

						
							I'd like to see the old time games
							That we kids used to play;
							But I guess they're in the discard now--
							This modern, jazz-time day.
						
					

					
						A Toast

						
							Here's to the chigger
							That ain't any bigger
							Than the point of a very small pin;
							But the welt that he raises
							Burns like blue blazes
							And there's where the rub comes in.
						
					






					

					
						The Hired Man
						
							Th' hired man 't works for pa
							Is the funniest mortal yever saw,
							He's 'ist as black as a chunk o' coal
							But betcher life he's a good ole soul.
						

						
							He dusts th' carpets an' cleans th' yard
							An' splits th' wood, an' 'ist works hard
							All day long an' don't git tired,
							'Cause he said 'f 'e did, w'y, he'd git fired.
						

						
							Y'ort t' see him when he takes
							O'r carpet out t' dust it:
							Th' way he lams th' uesky thing
							A feller'd think he'd bust it
						

						
							Plumb wide open, seams an' all--
							'Ist bust 'er clean acrost--
							But he says he knows his business
							An' he won't be bossed.
						

						
							He's 'ist th' dandiest ole feller
							'Tever wore ole clothes,
							An' I'd 'ist give a dollar
							'F I knowed what he knows
						

						
							'Bout ghosts an' witches an'--ever' thing,
							An' could do th' things he can;
							He's a dandy, 'at's what he is--
							Wisht I's a hired man.
						
					


					
						A Brighter Time Coming

						
							There's a brighter time coming: there will be a happy day
							When the sun shines forth in splendor and the dark clouds roll away.
							There will be an end of sorrow, and the tears will cease to fall;
							There's a brigter time coming for us all.
						

						
							If your yoke is hard and heavy, bear it up as best you can:
							Put your sorrows all behind you; Life, at best, is but a span,
							And your trials will soon be over, and your sorrows cease to be;
							There's a brighter time in store for you and me.
						

						
							Try and bear your trouble lightly, there'll soon be an end of gloom:
							Though through thorns you now are walking, just ahead the roses bloom.
							And there'll come an end of sorrow and the tears will cease to fall:
							There's a brighter time coming for us all.
						
					




					

					
						Poe's Raven A Club Man's View.
						
							Once upon a midnight dreary, Eddie Poe sat weak and weary,
							Musing o'er some borrowed volumes of old-time forgotten lore:
							As he sat there stretching, napping, suddenly there came a tapping
							As of some one gently rapping with a broom stick on the door:
							"Thash my wife," he feebly muttered, and his foot-steps kinder stuttered
							--As he tottered towards the door.
						

						
							It was club night, in December, and I think, if I remember,
							He said something 'bout the ghosts that wrestled 'round upon the floor,
							And he wished that it was Tuesday--wished 'twas Wednesday-maybe Thursday;
							Anyway he'd estimated all his sorrows o'er and o'er,
							Counted up the sorrows for the lovely, lost Lenore,
							--Then that tapping at the door.
						

						
							Presently his soul grew stronger--like his breath--and then no longer
							Waiting, said he, "Madam, your forgiveness I implore,
							But the fact is we had champagne, lovely, ice-cold, sparkling champagne,
							And so gently came your tapping, rapping at my chamber door
							That I didn't think I heard you." Then he opened wide the door--
							There was nothing there but--nothing--
							--Nothing more.
						

						
							Back into his room then turning, there he saw the lamp still burning,
							"But again there came the tapping, this time louder than before:
							"Funny", mused he, "There it is now, tapping, tapping at the window
							Let me see than what 'tis is it and this mystery explore:"
							With his heart then wildly beating, tottered forward as before--
							--" 'Tis the wind. nothing more."
						

						
							Then he opened wide the shutter and with flurry, fuss and flutter
							In there flew a croaking raven--took a turn around the floor,
							Not the least obeisance made he, not a moment stopped or stayed he,
							But as if he had a right to, flew and perched above the door:
							Perched upon a bust of Pallas, just above the chamber door:
							--Perched and shrieked out "Nevermore."
						

						
							Stunned was Poe at first to dumbness, with a feeling 'kin to bumness,
							And he marvelled at the grave and stern decorum this bird wore;
							Till his wits again returning and his heart with vengeance burning
							Grabbed he wildly for a weapon-flung the book of ancient lore
							At the unoffending Raven sitting there above the door--
							Smashed the mirror--nothing more.
						



						

						
							Then hurled he a paper weight, hurled it wildly, hurled it straight--
							Straight into a clock colonial that had ticked in days of yore:
							Then flung he the books and vases, smashed the glass o'er pictured faces,
							Faces of his friends departed that the lamplight gloated o'er:
							But the Raven still sat solemn on the bust above the door--
							Solemn, blinking, nothing more.
						

						
							Now we all have our "idees" 'bout what a man on club night sees
							Rolling home next morning anywhere from twelve to four;
							Fact is, Eddie had been drinking, leastways that's my way of thinking:--
							For the lamp was on the table and the Raven 'bove the door:--
							Now how'd that combination cast a shadow on the floor?
							I think Poe was ravin' crazy and his head was somewhat hazy--
							--In fact Ed was on the "bust"--nothing more.
						
					

					
						hoodoos

						
							De black cat yowl at de moon all night:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
							De screech owl screech in broad day light,
							En' de grub wo'ms all am rolled up tight:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
						

						
							Ah seed er rabbit cross de road:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
							Ah year de krunk o' de ole tree toad,
							En'--en' ah foun' a snake in de drinkin' gou'd:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
						

						
							De ole pet crow am trynter talk:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
							De ole gray mule done l'arn t' balk,
							En' de chickins ai'nt skeered o' de chickin hawk:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
						

						
							De ole hen's crowin' in de ya'd:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
							De ducks all huddle in er wad,
							En' de beans done dried up in de pod:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
						

						
							De houn's got lost on de 'possum track:
							Bad luck comin' sho'.
							De cows gits out en' dey don' come back,
							En'--en'--ah tells ye massa, 'hit's a fac',
							Bad luck am comin' sho'.
						
					






					

					
						Wall Paper

						
							In the Spring the giddy fancy takes a sudden dizzy whirl,
							We inspect the new wall-paper fads designed in whisk and swirl:
							We dote on Beardsley's curly types, dark blue and olive green.
							We feast our eyes on jim-jam sights that topers ne'er have seen.
						

						
							The several thousand wild designs that flash before our eyes
							Strike dumb our tongues--our hearts stand till--we're frozen with surprise,
							First this, then that, then others, till at last we grow profane,
							Then stagger forward--back again--screech twice and die insane.
						
					



					
						To a One-Time Friend

						
							Dear one-time friend, I have thee still
							As in the days of yore;
							I wear thee as in happier times
							Within my heart's heart-core.
						

						
							I see thee still as in those days
							Ere friendship ceased to be,
							When bonds of love like kin-ship's chains,
							Had fettered you to me.
						

						
							I think of thee in waking hours:
							At night thy dear face beams
							From out the clouds of slumber-land,
							The Pythias of my dreams.
						

						
							Death has no pangs more bitter:
							No kin-ship's chains dis-wrought
							Can tune a heart to sadness
							Like a friend forgetting--unforgot.
						
					




					

					
						I Like th' Rainy Days

						
							Guess I'm gettin' old and doty--
							Kinda changin' in my views--
							Fer I've come t' sort o' like th' things
							That used t' cause th' blues.
							I don't mind fallin' weather
							Like I did in days of yore--
							Don't dote so much on sunshine
							As in years that's gone before.
						

						
							I like t' climb up on th' hill
							An' jist set there an' dream
							Of changes that have come t' me
							While driftin' down Life's stream.
							I like t' set an' jist look back
							On things I used t' do,
							But there's nothin' much t' brag on
							As they all pass in review.
						

						
							I like t' loaf up on th' hill
							In th' warmin' summer time
							An' watch th' mighty thunder heads
							As on an' up they climb,
							An' look down on th' medder
							Whur their shadders swiftly roll,
							For they seem, somehow, t' kind o' match
							Th' shadders of th' soul.
						

						
							I like th' rainy seasons
							When they come in airly fall,
							When th' katy-dids are fussin'
							An' yuh hear th' crickets call;
							When th' back-log sort o' sputters
							In the slow-consumin' blaze--
							A certain prophesyin'
							Of continued rainy days.
						

						
							Th' rattle of th' rain drops
							On th' cla'boards overhead
							Is so plumb soul-satisfyin'
							I hope t' hear it when I'm dead;
							An' th' rushin' winds o' winter
							Blowin' through th' leafless limbs
							Is as pleasin'--to my notion--
							As th' choir a-singin' hymns.
						

						
							So I've come t' like th' rainy days
							When heaven's tear-drops fall--
							Seems it's kind o' typifyin'
							What life holds fer one an' all;
							Fer we have our days o' sunshine
							As we travel down th' glade,




							

							But our journey's allus mottled
							With th' darker spots o' shade.
						

						
							I used t' think th' cloudy days
							Was jist old Satan's own;
							But now they seem t' fit my mood
							As I set an' muse alone.
							We'd better take it as it comes
							An' sing its praise aloud,
							Fer th' sun jist looks th' brighter
							When it peeps f'm 'hind a cloud.
						
					

					
						On the Banks of the Wabash
							 A Parody.
						
							Overhead the summer sun shine down like blazes,
							Underfoot the rank marsh grass grows, damp and tall,
							And the skeeters buzz and buzz and buzz forever
							While the copperheads and vipers writhe and crawl.
							There it was we used to sit and fish for suckers,
							There it was we spent the live-long day;
							But the biggest "fish" were we two sunburned muckers
							On the banks of the Wabash far away.
						

						
							Oh, the sun shines hot today along the Wabash
							Where the horse flies and the bull gnats gaily play,
							Where the lightning bugs and skeeters swarm at evening,
							On the banks of the Wabash far away.
						

						
							I remember well the time I went in swimming
							On a summer day in deep, inviting pool
							Where the lazy water eddied 'round the willows--
							Left my clothing on the bank just like a fool.
							Soon a tramp came past with tattered clothing
							Greedily he grabbed my neat array,
							And in a barrel I thoughtfully walked homeward
							From the banks of the Wabash far away.
						

						
							Oh, the sun was hot that day along the Wabash,
							And I made my mind up bathing didn't pay,
							For my back was blistered, roasted, fried and toasted
							On the banks of the Wabash far away.
						
					



					

					
						Onct More

						Written at DePauw when Tom Nadal won the State Oratorical in
								1898.

						
							Onct more DePauw's old yaller
							Waves victorious over all;
							Onct more they stepped afore us
							An' they each one had t' fall.
							They kin waller us at foot ball,
							An' at base ball make us hump,
							But at brainy speechifyin'
							We've got'em on th' jump.
							That Tom Nadal's a hummer--
							He's th' blamedest feller yit;
							When he commences talkin'
							Other folks has got t' quit;
							Each word o' his means suthin'
							An' he don't take nothin' back,
							But what he says goes out an' hits
							Th' bull'seye right k'smack.
							Nadal don't use no flowery words
							An' don't put on much style,
							But when he starts t' talkin'
							An' his blood begins t' b'ile
							An' he loosens up his collar,
							Gives his pants an extry hitch,
							You kin bet yer bottom dollar
							That he'll win er bu'st a stitch.
							His words flies out like wildfire
							An' he hits 'em here an' there;
							When he gits down t' business
							W'y, there's music in th' air.
							An' everybody lissens
							When he toots his ole bassoon,
							An' ever'body's got t' dance
							No matter what's his tune.
							Nine rahs fer Tom Nadal, boys,
							An' nine fer old DePauw,
							Fer we've won another vict'ry
							An' won without a flaw.
							Then "Zip! Rah! Who?
							D. P. U.
							Rip Saw! Boom Baw!
							Bully fer old DePauw."
						
					





					

					
						Uncle Buckner

						
							Yes, I be'n hyer quite a spell--
							Some seventy year' er more--
							An' all th' friends I knowed so well
							Air about all gone on before.
							When I come hyer f'm ole Kaintuck--
							Kin jist rickollect it now--
							Ever'one said ole Uncle Buck
							Couldn' last long nohow.
							Ye see, I wa'n't sech a husky lad
							As a feller ort t' be
							At twenty year, an' I mind that dad
							Didn't set much store by me,
							Fer I wuz a sickly critter,
							Jes' mopin' 'round all day
							An never seemed t' git er
							Start till we come up Hoosier way.
							But--I'm still hyer, an' moseyin' roun'
							Though I 'low not over-stout--
							Pears like I jes' caint come up town
							'Thout clean, plumb tuckerin' out,
							'Long in th' fall I giner'ly go
							Out t' my dotter's in Eelinoy.
							An' in th' spring I come back so
							I kin spend th' summer with th' boy.
							Yes, I'm gittin' 'long in years--
							Jist wait now--le'me see;
							Eighteen-five; ninety-five--eight--'pears
							Like I'm 'bout ninety-three.
						
					



					
						RequieSCAT in Pace

						
							A darling one from us has gone
							A voice we loved is stilled,
							A place is vacant in our home
							That never can be filled.
							A life we loved has winged its flight
							And mayhap now is blisterin'--
							Our cat died in the angry waves
							Of our next-door' neighbor's cistern.
						
					



					

					
						The Grave of a Pioneer

						
							Here lies a Pioneer; here on this spot,
							Long years ago, so says tradition,
							He pitched his tent; led hither by
							His own unconquerable ambition
							To open up new lands; to feel that he
							Could look abroad and proudly say
							"I am, in truth, monarch and lord
							Of all that I survey."
							On this bright spot among the hills
							He pitched his tent and blazed the way
							For commerce and the busy marts
							Of generations of a future day.
							Here in the heart of untamed wilderness
							He woke the echoes with his keen-edged axe;
							He cleared and planted, later garnered in
							His meagre yield of grain and flax.
							Here, where pale-face ne'er before had trod;
							Here, where the swarthy Indian prowled
							In search of game; where all night long
							The hungry wolf and coyote howled
							In dire dismay at that high-blazing heap--
							His camp-fire; its far-reaching glare
							Held them at bay till daybreak's gray
							Flared forth and drove them to their lair.
							And here he lived and soon had builded up
							A cabin to replace his little tent,
							While to and from this humble cabin home
							His friends, the Red men, went.
							But peace like this could not forever be.
							More white men came: the Red Man stood aghast.
							While pale face deeper sunk his restless axe
							And mutual hatred grew, until at last
							The Red Men's fury burst and from the hills
							Down crushing on the Whites there poured
							With paint-streaked face and hatchet ready poised,
							The savage, murdering Indian horde.
							All in a might were these brave lives put out
							As one would snuff a candle with the cap;
							All unexpected was the midnight raid
							As from clear sky the deaf'ning thunder clap.
							Only an ash heap showed where cabin stood
							And stiffening bodies minus scalp-locks lay--
							Food for the now brave wolves by night,
							To bake and blister in the sun by day.
							Here lies a Pioneer; no stone to mark
							His resting place. The grasses wave
							Above his form, the stately trees
							Moan their sad requiem o'er his grave.
							Here, where he lived among the rocks and trees,
							Here, where his camp-fire burned;
							Here lies he now, encamped in peace at last,
							His bones to ashes turned.
						
					



					

					
						Hang Out the Flags

						May 30th.

						
							Hang out the flags! The line is marching by,
							The line of faltering footstep, bent form and glazing eye;
							The men who, in their springtime, put on the army blue
							And fought the fight
							Of righteous might
							To stem Rebellion's frothy tide and save this land for you.
						

						
							Hang out the flags! The line is marching past,
							The tottering, straggling graybeards whose ranks are thinning fast--
							The Nation's pride of yesteryear, now reeling toward the grave;
							With faltering tread
							They march ahead
							The saviors of the Nation, home of the free and brave.
						

						
							Hang out the flags! The line is marching on;
							Their spirit lives forever though their bodies may be gone,
							They gave their prime in younger years on bloody fields of yore.
							In after years,
							With smiles and tears,
							Let us still hang out the flags to honor those who've gone before.
						
					

					
						Lines

						Written for a cousin's "Memory Book."

						
							What shall I write you, my dear little girl?
							What shall I write in your "Memory book?"
							Something that starts with a swish and a swirl
							And dashes along like a loud-brawling brook?
							Something that starts with swish and swirl,
							Eddies and seethes in a maddening whirl,
							Splashing and dashing and clashing along,
							Hilariously singing its rollicking song?
						

						
							Is this what you want in your "Memory book?"
							Or do you wish something slow-going and deep?
							Like the waters that rest in some shadowy nook
							Slow moving along as though nearly asleep?
							Choose rather the latter. the waters that creep
							Are the "say-little" men who are thoughtful and deep
							The former--the waters that brawl the most loud--
							Are the "do-nothing" braggarts who boast to the crowd.
						
					



					

					
						On Reading "Thelma"

						
							The volume's closed--a novel, that is all--
							But, Truth or Fiction, tears unbidden fall,
							For twixt its covers Passion holds full sway
							And Life melts into Love as night in day.
							In Norway, land of midnight sun,
							In Norway's north was love begun;
							An eye-flash and Dan Cupid's work was done,
							Two souls were bound, and two hearts beat as one.
							She, knowing nothing of the World's wild ways,
							Held man as lord and duly gave him praise;
							Thus quickly did their courtship pass away
							And dawned at last the happy wedding day.
							Her life was his, to use as he thought best,
							In him her life-her soul-was blest
							And Love was deified.
							Her one great thought was for his happiness,
							She asked of him naught but his fond caress.
							And Home was glorified.
							To them their life was earthly paradise;
							Each looked to heaven in the other's eyes,
							Till Scandal, with her hell-born lies
							Pounced down on them as lambs of sacrifice
							To make peace-offering to her Gossip Queen
							And offered up their two hearts, piece by piece.
							And then, to satisfy her fiendish spleen,
							Held up to view the bleeding, butchered fleece--
							The corpse of this, their too-too happy life--
							And chuckled as she tore apart
							The bleeding fragments of the common heart
							Of husband and of wife.
							The volume's closed--a novel, that is all--
							But, Truth or Fiction, tears unbidden fall.
							Love lived a while, through happy, care-free years,
							To die at last amidi its own salt tears.
						
					



					
						Hog-killin' Gime

						
							Possum's mighty tasty wid sweet taters banked aroun'
							All drippin' wid de greasy fat an' baked up nice an' brown;
							Er chicken wid de trimmin's--b'ile 'em, fry er bake--
							An' po'kchops rich in gravy aint de leas' bit bad t' take.
							But man alive a-livin', dey don't temp' me none a-tall.
							You kin have 'em ef yuh wants 'em--take'em mistuh, take'em all.
							'Caze, lissen to me mistuh; jes look hyeh what I'se got--
							A pan o' rich brown cracklin's an'a cawn pone, smokin' hot.
						
					




					

					
						The Sharpshooter's Story

						
							You all remember Wolcott's boy--
							Laughin' blue eyed Jim--
							He run away when th' war broke out
							(An' th' home folks thought th' world o' him)
							He said he felt zif he ort t' go
							So he run away, as I said afore;
							Not that he loved his home folks less,
							But loved his country more.
						

						
							After he'd j'ined he come t' me--
							I's consid'able older'n Jim--
							An' told me all 'bout what he'd done
							(An' I knowed his parents worshipped him)
							So him an' me, we jest paired off,
							Sorter like pals, yuh know,
							An' ever' place I ever went
							Jim thought he'd ort t' go.
						

						
							So when we fit in th' wilderness
							I's right 'longside o' Jim
							An' told him not t' expose himse'f
							(I knowed what th' homefolks thought o' him).
							Right 'n our front wuz a battery
							An' Cap he called fer men--
							"Go up t' th' aidge o' th' open ground
							An' stop 'em if yuh ken."
						

						
							When th' Captain asked for volunteers
							I looked at little Jim,
							He grinned at me 'n says/"Come on, pard"--
							(Th' comp'ny thought th' world o' him)
							So up we crawled in th' underbresh
							An' got where we could see
							Th' batt'ry on a leetle knoll
							An' we each one "cooned" a tree.
						

						
							Fust I'd knock a gunner down
							Then wait a spell fer Jim
							An' watch t' see what his shot done,
							An' I felt proud o' him.
							We stayed till we had stopped their fun
							An' th' tarnal woods tuk fire;
							We watched th' blaze wrap round th' trees
							An' climb up higher 'n' higher.
						


						

						
							So down we dropped an' started back--
							I follered after Jim--
							Fer he wuz reckless an' didn't keer
							(An' his home folks worshipped him.)
							When all at onct I reeled an' fell,
							Hit with a minnie ball;
							I raised my head an' looked fer Jim--
							He hadn't seen me fall.
						

						
							I soon come to, an' there he wuz--
							Laughin', blue-eyed Jim;
							I told him not t' wait for me
							Er th' Johnnies'd shore git him.
							(He'd hurried back t' look fer me
							An' found me whar I'd fell.)
							Th' fire soon ketched us; thar we wuz
							Hemmed in an earthly hell.
						

						
							I'd never 'a' lived t' tell yuh this
							If it hadn't a-been fer Jim;
							He couldn't leave me t' die alone
							(An' I'd a-died fer him.)
							When we got fur enough t' stop
							Jim fainted dead away
							An' only come to long enough
							T' raise his head an' say
						

						
							"I'm goin', pard; when you see Bess
							Kiss her fer little Jim;
							Tell mother how it happened, an'--"
							(His mother fairly worshipped him.)
							I found th' hole in pore Jim's blouse;
							God bless, him, little Jim--
							He met his death a-he'pin' me--
							Wish I could 'a'died fer him.
						
					

					
						Lines To a vocal student

						
							O! Thou sweet singer of the rattley voice,
							Who was it taught thee thus
							To warble in the noontide's heat
							And turn loose all this fuss?
							Who taught thee thus to warble
							At morning's first faint bloom?
							Whoever taught thee should be rapped
							O'er the head with the crack o' doom.
						
					



					

					
						The Sivinteenth of March Tune: "Wearin' of the
								Green."

						
							Oh! the Irish clan behind the band were marchin' down the street
							And the beat of loyal Irish hearts kept time to Irish feet.
							As the band played "Wearin' of the Green". "Killarney's Lakes and Rills".
							The thoughts of Irish hearts went back to Erin's emerald hills.
						

						
							Oh! the sivinteenth of March is good old Ireland's happy day:
							Oh! the sivinteenth of March! the day the Irish march away
							To the tunes of good old Erin's isle that cheer the Irish soul
							And waft the Irish spirit up to heaven's happy goal.
						

						
							The Irish pride was at flood tide and lusty Irish throats
							Gave voice to good old Irish songs that drowned the bugles' notes;
							And the line swings round the corner with an ever-quick'ning pace
							And Schlitzhauser's "Orange Cider" ad is flaunted in the their
								face.
						

						
							Oh! the line stops short: they stare aghast, then with a mighty roar
							They tear the "Orange Cider" ad from above Schlitzhauser's door.
							Then they storm the place; Schlitzhauser's face looks like a railroad wreck
							They kicked and cuffed and beat him up and hung him by the neck.
						

						
							Then around the block they meet a shock--a dago's orange cart
							Is pushed athwart the line of march--a sign for war to start.
							They pummel him, they trample him, they beat and throttle him.
							And then not satisfied they tear the dago limb from limb.
						

						
							Oh! the sivinteenth of March is good old Ireland's happy day.
							Oh! the sivinteenth of March! the day the Irish march away
							To the tunes of good old Erin's isle that cheer the Irish soul
							And waft the Irish spirit up to heaven's happy goal.
						
					

					
						The Kodak Fiend

						
							When the gently whispering zephyrs play among the budding trees
							And summer's sweet perfume is wafted on the southern breeze,
							You'd better mind your business--kind o' watch what you're about
							For the Kodak Fiend 'll get you if you don't watch out.
							You'll find him in the woodland wilds, you'll find him on the street,
							And like a vengeful Nemesis he dogs your weary feet;
							He's lurking in the bushes--laying low for you and me--
							And wherever we are going, there the Kodak Fiend will be.
							He'll be hid behind a gatepost when you reach the shining goal,
							And while you walk the gold-paved streets he'll photograph your soul;
							Or, if in Hades' fiery depths you're doomed to roam about,
							The Kodak Fiend 'll get you, for he's there without a doubt.
						
					



					

					
						Our Fathers' Sons

						Written in 1898

						
							Years ago, at urgent call
							Our fathers met in Fanueil Hall,
							Wrote "Independence. We are free,"
							And handed it down to you and me
							And made us men instead of slaves.
							Then followed Lexington, Bunker Hill,
							Stony Point and Bemis Heights,
							And Valley Forge's days and nights.
							Those heroes died and in their will
							Bequeathed their triumphs and their graves
							They fought for a noble, holy cause
							With corner stone of God's own laws
							That all men are and ought to be
							On equal basis, each one free
							To worship God as he thinks best,
							That each with Liberty be blessed.
							They gave us a country; a banner they gave
							For land of free and home of brave.
							The Star Spangled Banner for me and for you--
							God's glorious banner, with heaven's own blue
							The blood of our heroes, spilled in the fight,
							Is emblemed by crimson; its purity, white.
							Those men cried "Liberty" to the world
							And Liberty's beautiful banner unfurled.
							It floats today and always will
							As long as men have blood to spill,
							And battlefields to spill it o'er
							And Uncle Sam to shed it for.
							The same old blood is in each vein
							And tingles at each finger tip,
							And falling from each patriot lip
							We hear the doom of Spain.
						
					



					
						SEND US COOKS

						
							She may dress in silks and satin,
							May know how to smile and sigh;
							She may speak both Greek and Latin
							But, "nix", if she can't bake a pie.
						
					




					

					
						
							The Old Miami Trail
						

						
							The old Miami Trail! The trail that leads
							Back through the countless centuries;
							And-forward looking-beckons us
							On, ever on, to God's eternities.
							Here trod the feet of countless savage hordes--
							Their life, their death, even their names untold.
							They lived their day and met their darkening night
							Along this trail that now is ages old.
							Can we, who walk down these enlightened ways,
							Leave trails as plainly marked as this of other days?
						
					






					

					
						Bachelor Jim

						
							Livin' lonesome, by hisse'f
							Without a thing t' bother him,
							Nothin' t' do th' whole day through
							But 'tend th' garden, I tell you
							You ort t' know my Uncle Jim.
							He's a dandy, that's what he is
							Th' blamedest feller yit;
							When he commences talkin'
							Other folks has got t' quit.
							I tell yuh he's a corker,
							That's what my uncle is
							He's a bachelor--"Bachelor Jim."
							That's what th' folks down there calls him,
							But he says he knows his biz.
							He says women aint no good--
							All jist alike, he says,
							But jist you wait an' see 'f'e don't
							Git tied up one o' these days.
							He built a house las' fall, he did--
							Only got two rooms--
							An' made th'other'n int' a barn
							T' keep old Daiz in, an' th' corn,
							An' he jist lives in them two rooms.
							He's got a table an' bed an' stove
							An' a coupla chairs er so;
							He's cozy as a bug in a rug
							An' says "Jes' let'er blow."
							Ol's his brother an' lives there close--
							Half a quarter er sich--
							An' when Jim gits hungry fer civilized grub
							He jist goes over an' visits Bub,
							Fer Ol sets a table that's rich,
							Jim's kinda odd--don't keer a cent
							Whether school keeps er not;
							Winter's never too cold fer him
							Ner Summer never too hot.
							An' playin' checkers! Say, he's slick,
							An' nosey-poker an' seven-up,
							Pedee an' euchre an' solitaire
							Californy Joe an' all them 'ere
							He's hard t' foller up.
							Plowin' don't agree with Jim--




							

							'Druther eat than work hard any day--
							Fishin' an' huntin' jist tickles him;
							Can't he'p it, cause he's born that way.
							Livin' lonesome by hisse'f,
							Without a thing t' bother him;
							Nothin' t' do th' whole day through
							But 'tend th' garden, I tell you
							You ought t' know my uncle Jim.
							Bachelor Jim, Lonesome Jim,
							Happy Jim, Laughin' Jim,
							You ort t' know old Jim.
						
					

					
						Lazy Weather

						
							Aprile's here, an' Aprile weather,
							When a feller don't know whether
							It's goin' t' rain, er shine, er what;
							Taint too cold, ner taint too hot,
						

						
							Jes' Lazy Weather.
						

						
							Aprile's here an' sun's a-puttin'
							On his steam gauge. Clouds a-scootin'
							Crost th' heavens, an' th' winds
							Sorter singin' through th' limbs,
						

						
							Sing Lazy Weather.
						

						
							Makes a feller go t' wishin'
							He wuz out some where a-fishin',
							An' didn't have t' work a lick--
							Jest kill time along th' crick
						

						
							In Lazy Weather.
						

						
							Some folks like ole Winter best,
							Summer'n' Fall may suit th' rest
							But I'm jist tickled fit t' bust
							When Aprile rain drops "Spot" th' dust
						

						
							In Lazy Weather.
						
					



					

					
						Apostrophe to Winter

						
							O, thou white-whiskered
							Hoary-headed god,
							Whose breath blights where it strikes
							Thy name is Winter
							And thy icy breath
							Puts a quietus on
							The flowers that bloom in the spring,
							Tra la.
							It also colors up to some extent,
							The pale Caucasian's alabster nose,
							And likens it unto the red, red rose.
							Thy spotless mantle settles down
							In boistrous silence on the
							Things of Earth and makes the ash barrel
							Look like a thing of beauty.
							Thou'rt here, O, King!--thy icy grasp
							Is like unto the nobby Fedora hat--
							'Tis felt.
							The thermometer drops with dull
							Resounding, thud, and hovers
							'Round about the frizo mark.
							The gas gives out--the coal pile dwindles
							And the heat goes up the flue.
							The small boy--schoolward bound--
							Glides merrily athwart the frozen mud-hole.
							The ice-man's out of work;
							His hooks hang silent on the gloomy wall
							The while he hovers o'er the convalescent fire 
							Rubs mutton tallow on his favorite
							Corn and sighs, "where am I at?"
							The frozen pump makes joyful noises
							Like a hired man who sings at even- tide.
							The blooming youth hies to the ice,
							Straps on his skates and cuts a star
							Or two, as graceful as a crippled cow.
							The timid maiden with the rosy cheek
							With flashing metal strapped upon
							Her feet,


							

							Her eyes askance, steps forth
							Upon the ice;
							She skates! Look, how she skates!
							She seems to fairly fly thro space,
							Till, in a moment of ecstatic bliss,
							The skittish skates scoot skyward
							With a swish--and then with one
							Grand, glorious swoop terrific,
							Down crumbling in a limpid heap,
							She sits, all in a bunch.
							'Tis Winter, and the Ice King's breath
							Frescoes the windows with designs
							Sublime no artist's brush can imitate.
							'Tis Winter,and the pumpkin pie
							Is ripe.
							The erstwhile babbling brook
							Has ceased its gurgling journey
							Through the woods and fields and stands,
							In icy fetters bound secure;
							The gurgling brook will gurg no more till spring.
							'Tis winter--'taint no joke--
							And thou--O, Ice King from the frozen north!
							Ask of thy subjects all the homage due,
							And we, in contrite humbleness
							Do poke the fire with zeal and zest
							And do put on our overcoats and old fur caps
							To thee.
						
					

					
						"Wheels"

						
							In the Spring the young men's fancies turn to thoughts of cycle- tracks.
							And they read in daily papers of the coming "Cycle-Cracks,"
							And they throng the country roadways with their humped-up cycle- backs
							In the Spring
							And in the Fall.
						

						
							They fly adown the hillsides with their warped-up cycle-face
							And they whiz through shady hamlets in their breakneck cycle-race,
							Till it seems that everybody's hitting up the cycle-pace,
							In the Spring
							And in the Fall.
						

						
							In their natty cycle-costumes, with their nobby cycle-feet,
							They tear along the roadways till the flying cycles meet
							And all that's left are ragged chunks of quivering cycle-meat;'
							Not in the spring,
							But in the "fall."
						
					




					
					
						Th' Fell1er 'at Works Fer Pa

						
							Jever see o'r hired han',
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa?
							He's a reg'lar hummer, 'at's what he is,
							When he gits started he makes things whiz:
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa.
						

						
							He's a dandy roustabout man--
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa--
							'Ist goes 't ever thing hit or miss,
							When he finishes that he commences on this:
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa.
						

						
							I went to th' circus one time, I did,
							'Ith th' feller 'at works fer pa;
							'N he tole me 'bout what th' elephants do,
							'N hopupontomas 'n' hinoceros too,
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa.
						

						
							'N'en th' next day he wuz tryin' some tricks--
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa:--
							He's ridin' th' ole gray all 'roun' th' lot
							An' stan'in' up on 'er an' her in a trot;
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa.
						

						
							An' he's ridin' bareback, too, so he wuz:
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa.
							An' he'd jump up on 'er an' jump off ag'in
							An' th' ole mare a-goin' ist lickety spin--
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa.
						

						
							An' he made me a squirt-gun once, so he did:
							Th' feller 'at works fer pa:
							Out o' fish-pole, a stick an' a piece o' ole shirt
							An' he made me a gun 'at 'd sure 'nuff squirt;
							Th' feller at works fer pa.
						

						
							Beats anybody 'tever I seen--
							Th' feller at works fer pa;
							He e'n play a jews 'arp an' c'n whistle, 'y jings
							Wisht I could do all o' them kind o' things
							Like th' feller 'at works fer pa.
						
					


					

					
						The Old half-Dime A Civil War Memento

						
							She sat in silence and the fire light played
							Upon her brow; her cheeks, the locks that strayed
							Gray, straggling truants from their wonted place
							And fell in threads of silver down her face.
							She sat in silence, and in memory came
							The silent whisperings of one dear name;
							The olden days before her locks were gray,
							And of the loved one who had marched away.
							She sat in silence and her fancies teemed
							With thought of him of whom each night she dreamed.
							She thought of him who in that olden time
							Had left with her this blackened old half dime.
							She saw again the blue-bloused, beardless boy
							Leap from the ranks, half sadness, half in joy;
							Again she felt his kiss; the dead, dull pain;
							And heard his words, "Until I come again."
							She heard again the wild hurrahs and cheers;
							Again she saw the goodbyes and the tears;
							She saw once more the swinging lines of blue;
							She saw Old Glory waving fond adieu.
							She heard again the drum and shrieking fife;
							She saw again that pulsing line of life
							Ebb farther, farther from her tear-dimmed sight,
							A sacrifice for freedom and the right.
							She saw it as it passed the old log mill
							And watched it crawling, crawling up the hill;
							She saw him wave a "good-bye" from the crest--
							Then lost to sight, borne onward with the rest.
							She sought again the lonely cabin door
							Where he had played in those old days of yore;
							'There where he gaily romped and played
							In childish sport, she knelt and prayed.
							She lived again through all the weary years,
							And wept again the floods of mother's tears;--
							She heard once more the thrilling fife and drum
							And heard the shout "At last the boys have come!"
							Again she saw the happy, laughing few--
							The ragged, straggling, dusty ranks of blue;
							Again she felt the weary eyes grow dim;
							As still she watched, and still no word from him.
							And still at ev'ning when the shadows fall
							And from the woods comes whip-poor-will's drear call,
							She lives anew the lonely years of pain
							And o'er the silver keep-sake weeps again.
							That old coin cherished in trust for him,
							Handled, caressed, the date grown dim;
							And life's blossoms wither--fade--fall and expire
							As she silently sits, gazing into the fire.
						
					






					

					
						Our War Cry

						BACK IN '98

						
							When the battle fiercely rages,
							And the shells shriek loud and shrill,
							When the wildly flying missiles
							Bruise and mangle, crush and kill.
							When the decks with blood are reeking,
							Blood of heroes, wounded, slain,
							Then it is the war-cry echoes,
							"Remember, remember the Maine."
						

						
							When the singing rifle-bullets
							And the hurtling, bursting shell
							Mingle with the screeching shrapnel,
							Wildly chanting "War is Hell;"
							Then the boom and roar of cannon,
							Echo back the same refrain;
							Chiming with the musket's rattle,
							"Remember, remember the Maine."
						

						
							When the clatt'ring, rattling drum-beat,
							Mingles with the fife-note shrill,
							And in the rush and din of battle,
							We see Old Glory o'er us still;
							Then it is new blood goes coursing,
							Tingling through each loyal vein,
							Then from each lip comes the war-cry,
							"Remember, remember the Maine."
						

						
							Dear Old Banner! How we love it!
							Love its stripes of white and red,
							Love its square of star-decked Heaven,
							Honor--worship every thread.
							This is not a war for conquest,
							Not a war for paltry gain,
							But a war for suffering brothers,
							And the Martyrs of the Maine.
						
					



					
						A Suggested Epitaph On Seeing A Monument to Henri
								Wirz At Andersonville.

						
							Henri Wirz, come hot from hell,
							Wrote bold his name in war's grim tome.
							Now, here he lies, God knows 'tis well,
							For Henri Wirz has gone back home.
						
					


					

					
						In Memoriam

						May 30th.

						
							Let flags be furled: let muffled drums mark time to pageant's tread;
							Let us seek the last, long camp-ground of our Nation's loyal dead:
							Let May's sweet blossoms scent the air, and garland each low grave.
							Of those who bore the battle-brunt and stemmed War's threatening wave.
							Let guns speak out their chaste salute o'er grass-grown, flag-marked mound:
							Let waking echoes catch, repeat, and multiply the sound;
							Let "Taps" ring out from bugle throats: let muffled drum's long roll,
							Bespeak our "In Memoriam" to each Heaven harbored soul.
						
					


					
						The Pesky Pizen Vine

						
							When the gently whispering zephyrs play among the budding trees
							And the first faint hints of spring are wafted on the Southern breeze:
							When wild flowers peep from drifted leaves and blossom one by one,
							And all nature feels hilarious in the warmth of Southern sun:
						

						
							When the ground hog wakes from Winter's sleep to stretch his cramped-up limbs,
							And the city clerk and sweetheart gaily chant their picnic hymns:
							Then 'round the stump and on the fence will silently entwine
							Man's awful, silent enemy, the pesky pizen vine.
						

						
							When the Summer's heat is sizzling and the crops are all "done brown"
							When Autumn's frosts are nipping things and leaves come tumbling down:
							When Winter's chilling, icy blasts are whistling down the line,
							Ready always for a victim is the pesky pizen vine.
						

						
							Man may boast of his complexion and his form of perfect mould:
							He may outstare War's grim visage; he may laugh at grim Death cold:
							But the thing that mars his beauty, warps his shape all out of line
							Is the graceful, unassuming, modest pesky pizen vine.
						
					



					

					
						A Question To Mr. Riley

						
							"As one who cons at evening o'er an album all alone,"
							We have conned o'er volumes borrowed, also volumes of our own,
							Searching in the homes of wisdom for a word they never knew,
							But in vain our search has proven, so we leave it now to you.
							We've consulted Noah Webster and he said he didn't know;
							Likewise Chambers' many volumes on this word no light can throw;
							We have searched through dictionaries, unabridged and otherwise
							But so far 'thas proven fruitless--still doth blindness bind our eyes.
							Is it French or ancient Latin? Bengalese or Hindoostan?
							Does it come from northern Norway, or from sunny Yucatan?
							Was it minted in the tropics? Was it born 'mid northern snow?
							Is it Eastern? Is it Western ? That is what we fain would know.
							We have read your book on Sifers, but can't cipher this thing out,
							We have wondered at its meaning, but as yet we are in doubt;
							It seems to be a word that lately into use has flounced
							So pray tell us Mr. Riley, how Rubayait is pronounced.
						
					



					
						herschell's Comin' Back

						
							We want you folks to jine us in a doin's here in town
							In honor of a Hoosier lad--a writer of renown;
							Born here, he was, a few years back; left here th' world to roam,
							But Sunday next he'll be here, fer Herschell's comin' home.
						

						
							Will Herschell's writ of this an' that, in poetry an' prose;
							He sings his songs of happiness as here an' there he goes;
							He's known throughout th' nation, f'm Key West clean t' Nome,
							But he hankers fer his birthplace, an' so he's comin' home.
						

						
							Some friends f'm Indynoplus will be with him on th' trip,
							An' his name'll be th' password on each lovin' Hoosier lip,
							Fer they're comin' here t' honor him--an' honor us, 'y jack--
							So come on in an' jine us, fer Will Herschell's coming' back.
						
					



					

					
						The Yesterdays

						
							In th' fall o' th' year, when leaves turn brown
							An' hick'ry nuts come rattlin' down,
							My mind goes back thoo th' misty haze
							To our boyhood fun of th' yesterdays.
							When we drove th' cows thoo sun er rain
							An' turned'em in at th' Curtis lane,
							Then hit fer th' woods t' roam at will
							Along th' hollers er over th' hill
							A-huntin' nuts. Oh, th' fun we had!
							I think of it often, an' say, 'y dad,
							I git plumb homesick now an' then
							An' wush I could live them days again.
							An' say, old friend, can you call t' mind
							Th' shagbark hick'ries we used t' find
							Near th' sugar camp? An' oh, my laws!
							Th' hazel nuts an' big poppaws!
							An' walnuts too. We got our share
							Of ever'thing that growed up there.
							I remember th' wagon with soap-box bed
							That we two made in gran'dad's shed;
							With houn's an' bolsters an' standards too,
							An' a couplin' pole a-stickin' thoo--
							Th' wobbly wheels kep' breakin' down
							When haulin' our nut crop into town.
							I remember th' walnuts, too, 'y jings,
							An' how we'd hull th' messy things--
							Beat'em till th' hulls come loose
							Then pull'em off an' smear th' juice
							All over our han's. An' jimminy gee!
							Th' way my dad would larrup me!
							An' I remember th' little bin
							On th' woodshed roof we laid'em in
							Till they's good an' dry an' cured too--
							Ready t' eat an' good clean thoo.
							An' th' awful things th' teacher said
							Th' day she sent us home, 'y Ned;
							Sent us home t' not come back
							Till our han's was free of brown an' black;
							But jimminy crickets, what's th' use
							O' tryin' t' wash off walnut juice?
							It all comes back as I set an' dream



							

							Thoo th' autumn days until I seem
							T' live again our days o' fun
							When life had only just begun.
							Roamin' th' woods without a care,
							Jist runnin' here an' runnin' there--
							Climbin' th' hills t' look out o'er
							Th' bottom lands spread like a floor;
							The trees all decked in colorings
							More gay than royal robes of kings,
							In vivid yeller, red an' green
							An' all th' faint shades in between.
							Th' rattlin' dead leaves layin' thick
							An' fluffy like a feather tick--
							Sometimes I think they musta been
							Jist made t' lay an' waller in.
							An' there we'd stretch an' bask our hides
							In stragglin' sunbeams an', besides,
							Gaze over th' bottom land below
							Where fodder shocks stood, row on row,
							With punkins layin' ever'where
							Between th' fodder shocks down there;
							Great big, yeller, golden things--
							I could eat one raw, right now, 'y jings.
							An' th' punkin pies our boyhood dreams
							Would picture then! It really seems
							If I had th' whole mess here right now
							I'd eat'em, crust an' all, I vow.
						
						
						
							My mind goes back thoo th' dreary years
							An' th' picture's blurred with misty tears,
							But th' skies in heaven won't seem more blue
							Than th' skies that smiled on me an' you.
						
						
						
							Of all things on the long menu,
							The one that hits the spot
							Is a real, old fashioned oyster stew
							Served up pipin' hot.
						
					





					

					
						My Indiana hills

						
							You may boast about yer flat land
							With its rich, alluvial soil
							An' yer whoppin' yields per acre
							With a minimum of toil;
							You may love yer wide, flat acres
							An' th' money they bring in,
							But to me there's satisfaction
							Livin' where I've allus been.
						

						
							Livin' mongst th' hills an' hollers
							Where th' road winds here an' there
							With a view that's allus changin'--
							Touched with beauty ever'where.
							Where th' woods is deep in shadder,
							Where yer soul jist swells an' fills
							With th' pure sunshine o' heaven--
							Here among th' Hoosier hills.
						

						
							Yer flat land's good fer farmin',
							If that's all yuh got at stake;
							But fer me there's more in livin'
							Than th' money you can make.
							I like t' see th' wooded slopes,
							An' hear th' tricklin' rills;
							I like t' view th' sun-up
							Over Indiana hills.
						

						
							You may praise yer flat purary
							That's as level as a floor;
							You may view yer whole half-section
							Standin' in yer kitchen door;
							But I want th' hills an' hollers
							With their sunshine an' their shade;
							I want t' roam th' wooded path,
							Th' thicket an' th' glade.
						

						
							I like th' hill tops, tree-crowned
							With maple, oak an' beech;
							I want t' see th' orchards
							Blushin' with th' bloom of peach;
							Th' rail fence snakin' up th' slope
							Lined with briers an' sassafras;


							

							Watch th' sunshine chase th' shadders
							'Cross th' wavin' fields of grass.
						

						
							I like t' set on Baldy's top,
							Where breezes come an' go,
							An' watch th' cloud-flecked skies above
							An' sun-flecked fields below,
							An' look down on th' medder pond
							Ringed 'round with luscious grass
							Reflectin' heaven's happiness
							Like yer sweetheart's lookin' glass.
						

						
							I like t' watch th' cattle feed
							Down in some shady dell;
							I like t' hear th' music
							Of old Jerse's tinklin' bell.
							I want th' chirp of robin,
							Bobolink an' whippoorwill,
							An' I'd swap a whole flat section
							Fer an' Indiana hill.
						
					



					
						Taking Cold

						
							I'b idvited to a party add I'd really like to go,
							The list of guests includes a lot of people that I know.
							If I stay at hobe the folks will think I'b really gettig old,
							But I fear they bust excuse be, for I think I'b takig cold.
						

						
							By eyes keep ruddig all the time; by doze is ruddig too;
							I blow by doze add rub by eyes--it's all that I cad do
							By flabby muscles, achig bodes add roaring head, Ib told
							By wife add frieds add deighbors, are sure sigds I'b takig cold.
						

						
							By hide is full of quidide add the gooseflesh cobes add goes,
							Add your automobile tail light cad't be redder thad by doze;
							I pull the bed clothes over be add pile theb, fold on fold,
							Add shivver, shake add shudder, add I think I'b takig cold.
						

						
							I sneeze add sniffle all day long add cough a lot at dight
							By throat is sore, I'b growig hoarse, by lugs are gettig tight;
							I'd like to bingle with the guests, but if truth bust be told,
							I'd better sedd theb by regrets for I think I'b takig cold.
						
					




					

					
						Sugar-Makin' Days

						
							I like th' sugar makin' days along in airly spring
							When th' sun breaks up th' ice sheet an' blustry March winds bring
							Th' first few airly robins an' th' redbirds an' th' wrens
							T' lay plans fer their summer homes. I tell yuh, fellers, then's
							Th' time o' year a feller allus seems t' feel his best,
							A-wakin' up, yuh might say, f'm th' long, long winter's rest;
							With ever' bone an' muscle jist a-tinglin' like th' itch
							T' git t' work at somethin' an' aint a-keerin' which.
						

						
							I like th' airly thawin' days an' nights that freeze a bit
							With wind a-blowin' gusty an' now an' then a spit
							O' snow a-fallin'--then th' sun a peepin' thoo
							Th' clouds an' shinin' brighter--sorter smilin' down at you.
							I like t' tend th' sugar camp an' watch th' bilin' sap
							As it plops an' flops an' bubbles in th' big condensin' vat;
							I like th' steamy flavor that rises with th' smoke
							An' smells s' good an' wholesome that yuh might nigh hope t' choke.
						

						
							I like t' set an' toast my shins an' poke wood in th' fire
							An' watch th' furnace eat it up an' see th' blaze leap higher;
							An' lookin' at th' faces in th' blazes an' th' steam
							Wakes up a feller's mem'ry an' makes him set an' dream.
							Th' boys out on th' hillside getherin' up th' maple drip--
							A nectar any pleasin'er never wet a feller's lip--
							An' whis'lin' like th' bird songs in betwixt their "haws" an' "gees"
							That they holler at th' sled team in an' out among th' trees.
						

						
							I like t' roast p'taters in th' ashes at my feet,
							An' a roasted egg is sweeter than th' sweetest chicken meat.
							With a strip o' sizzlin' bacon an' a slab o' toasted bread
							Washed down with sugar water--nothin' better cain't be said.
							I like th' sugar makin' days along in airly spring
							When th' frogs begin t' holler an' th' birds tune up t' sing;
							I could loaf around a sugar camp f'm night t' airly morn--
							I could dream before th' furnace fire till Gabr'el blows his horn.
						
					


					
						RAW! RAW!

						
							He heard him give the college yell,
							For joy he scarce could speak;
							He murmured "Mother, listen
							To our William talkin' Greek."
						
					



					

					
						October!

						
							October gay, the glorious month,
							The dearest of them all,
							When Summer, backward glancing,
							Slowly ripens into Fall.
							Thy frost-tipped fingers, here and there,
							Are turning leaves to gold,
							And fiery red and softer hues--
							The year is growing old.
							The rising sun looks dull and red
							As through the mist it peeps
							At early morn, but brighter grows,
							And warmer, as it higher creeps;
							Then weaker growing, going down,
							It sinks a fiery ball,
							While early shadows higher climb
							And darkness settles over all.
							The far-off woods are blue and dim,
							A smoky haze is everywhere,
							While hints of Indian Summer come
							With every breath of air.
							The yellow plumes of golden rod
							Are nodding to and fro
							To thistle down whirled here and there
							As breezes chance to blow.
							The birds are leaving, bullbats whirl
							In dizzy flight at eventide;
							Dame Nature dons her gala dress--
							Grim winter's blushing bride,
							The erstwhile timid little quail
							And shy prairie hen
							By hunger driven, bolder grow,
							And flock to haunts of men.
							The beechnuts, nipped by biting frost,
							Noisily rattle down,
							And pawpaws, slowly turning black,
							Lie scatttred o'er the ground.
							Then, hail! Oh hail, October fair,
							The dearest month of all,
							When Summer, backward glancing,
							Slowly ripens into Fall.
						
					




					

					
						Th' Fall o' th' Year

						
							I like t' see th' fodder shocks a-standin' row on row;
							I like th' tang of autumn an' th' first few skifts of snow.
							I like th' sparkle of th' frost that tetches up th' leaves
							An' ripens th' persimmons. An' I, somehow, half believe
							That I like th' autumn better as my shadder stretches out
							Along th' western hill slope. There's a cheerfulness about
							Th' whistle of th' pa'tridge an' th' callin' of th' snipe
							An' th' blowin' of th' dinner horn when punkin pies is ripe.
						

						
							I somehow like th' idy of th' settin' of th' sun
							As I set an' ponder over all my workin' days that's done.
							I had my happy springtime, an' my summer come an' went
							An' now that autumn's slippin' on I find myself content
							T' set an' dream an' whittle, lookin' backward o'er th' years,
							T' chuckle over things that formed th' basis of my fears.
							An' as I set before th' fire an' smoke my ole cob pipe
							I smile because it's autumn time an' punkin pies is ripe.
						

						
							I like t' watch th' boys gittin' out at airly morn,
							A-hookin' up th' teams an' startin' in t' shuck th' corn;
							Fer me there's jist real music in th' rattle of th' gears
							An' I like t' hear th' thumpin' of th' shiny, yellow ears
							Ag'in' th' six-foot bump board as th' boys fling'em in
							An' I'm sometimes half way wishin' that I was young ag'in.
							But my workin' days is over, an' I smile an' fill my pipe;
							I'm happy that it's autumn an' th' punkin pies is ripe.
						
					



					

					
						Reunion

						
							Across the blood-washed battle-fields where once the cannon roared,
							Where brother fought with brother and where crimson life-blood poured;
							Through Gettysburg's grim monuments, o'er Chickamauga's plain;
							From Lookout Mountain's cloud-wreathed crest rings out the glad refrain
							"Reunion."
						

						
							The same dear flag floats over all, the glorious stripes and stars--
							The Blue and Gray together meet and count her battle scars,
							United now is North and South, united East and West,
							United now forever--the same song in each breast:
							"Reunion."
						

						
							She's up there now--Old Glory--gaily flapping in the breeze,
							And smiles in whole-souled happiness at what she hears and sees
							As the boys who wore the loyal blue meet those who wore the gray,
							And sing the one glad anthem that is National to-day,
							"Reunion."
						

						
							She's up there now--Old Glory--and she waves for all to-day:
							Her rippling folds alike protect North's blue and Southern gray.
							Her twinkling stars smile down on us from out their field of blue
							And seem to breathe the same sweet thought as back in 'sixty-two;
							"Reunion."
						

						
							To-day the veterans meet and talk their old time skirmish-lore,
							They stand again on picket post;--they fight their battles o'er:
							They go once more through prison pens, they visit lowly graves
							Where over blue and gray alike, that same dear banner waves
							"Reunion."
						

						
							Those who wept at Appamatox stand with those whom vict'ry crowned,
							And together strew the evergreen o'er lowly flag-marked mound,
							And they kneel beside the headstone, and with clasped hands, through their
								tears
							They smile their heart-felt happiness, that after many years
							There is "Reunion."
						

						
							No more the rattling drum beats out the stirring call to arms:
							No more these one time brother-foes pay heed to War's alarms:
							They are waiting now for roll-call o'er that vest eternal sea
							Where the men who marched with Sherman are encamped with those of Lee
							In glad "Reunion."
						
					




					

					
						Microbes

						
							They tell us there are microbes in the dust about our feet
							They say that there are microbes in the food we have to eat;
							There are microbes in the water, and there's microbes in the milk,
							There's microbes in the atmosphere of every brand and ilk.
							And they tell us there are microbes in the kisses that we kiss,
							There are even microbes lurking in the kisses that we miss;
							And they say that there are microbes in the greenbacks that we earn,
							Everything is full of microbes--gosh! there's microbes left to burn.
						
					


					
						Th' Sled 'at Grampa Maked

						
							Onct when I's a li'l' feller,
							Long, long time ago,
							My grampa comed an' stayed 'ith us
							All one Winter thro;
							An' maked me a li'l' sled, he did,
							First time we had a snow,
							An' I 'ist had th' mostest fun,
							'Ist like th' big boys do.
							He tooked some boards an' sawed 'em
							Kinder slaunchways crost th' end
							Fer runners. 'N'en he stopped 'n'
							Scratched his head an' p'tend'
							Like he's studyin': 'n'en put in
							Some--braces, b'lieve he said,
							An' nailed a li'l' box on top,
							'N'en I had a sled.
							An' when a wagon's goin' past,
							I'd hitch'er on b'hind.
							An' go a-sleddin', 'n' 'ist go fast--
							'Ist burn th' wind.
							An' onct I rode t' Curtis's--
							Clean wher' the Narrers is
							An' walked back home, an' I's
							'Ist purt--nigh--friz.
						
					



					

					
						Th' Weatherman's Shop

						
							Wuz yevver inside o' th' Weatherman's shop?
							Ye go up on th' roof an' in f'm th' top,
							Down a nicicle ladder to a sleet-covered floor,
							Where's his work-bench an' trinkets an' weather galore.
							Ye kin laugh if ye wanter but I know it's all right,
							Fer th' hired girl told us about it las' night,
							When supper wuz over an' th' things all cle'red out,
							An' we'z lis'nin' t' the stories Mary Ellen tells about
							Th' Weatherman's got lots o' stuff, so Mary Ellen said,
							Ain't even got no furnicher but a table an' a bed,
							An' all th' rest's 'ist weather--'ist rain an' snow an' sleet,
							An' ever'thing's right in its place an' fixed up nice an' neat.
							Theys bombshells, labelled "Thunder", an' then they's "April showers."
							Put up in pint an' quart tin cans, t' last a couple' hours,
							An' streaks o' "A-1 lightnin' "--th' kind 'at strikes, ye know;
							An' then they's some 'ist flashes up, an's on'y used fer show.
							An' "Snow" fixed up 'n pepper shakes--only grea' big shakes they are--
							An' lamp black he mixes "Clouds" with as black as any tar,
							An' settin' in th' corner is a nice, bright, new tin pail
							With things 'at looks like marbles, but th' bucket's labeled "Hail."
							An' they's fans 'at he makes "Breezes" with, an' bellis fer th' "Wind"--
							Th' fans he uses first, ye know, 'fore th' "Cyclone" gits beginned;
							'N' he's got a grea' big whitewash brush t' he takes t' smear on "Frost,"
							An' th' biggest, ole th'mometer ye ever runned acrost.
							An' Mary Ellen says 'at when th' Weatherman gits sick--
							When he kinder gits give out, ye know, er maybe's got a crick
							'N his back, er got the blues an' has t' go t' bed,
							His wife 'ist takes th' business up 'n th' weather goes ahead.
							An' Mary Ellen says she knows 'at's what's the matter now--
							An' his wife's mind's kinder rickety, an' she don't ketch on somehow,
							'Ist tries this an' 'en tries that--keeps changin' of her mind,
							An' 'at's what makes th' weather sich a nawful mixed-up kind.
						
					




					

					
						Mosqui-to-to

						From "Withahaha".
						By Henry W. Shortheavysetfellow.

						
							From the stagnant pools and marshes,
							From the lakes and creeks and rivers,
							From the homes of frogs orchestral
							And from out the rusty rain-barrel
							Comes the hungry Mosqui-to-to;
							Mosqui-to-to with his tool-kit,
							With his saw and hatchet sharpened,
							With his blood-pump and his auger,
							Comes to break our rest at night-time,
							With his sharp insinuations.
							And the silver moon of springtime
							In his nightly rounds looks on him
							Since his advent in the city;
							Likewise has the sun-light warmed him
							Since his coming here among us.
							We are weary, we are waiting
							For the passing of his visit.
							We are weary of his singing,
							Weary of his sharp caresses.
							Even now our maids and matrons
							Bear the marks of Mosqui-to-to;
							Bear the marks upon their faces,
							On their cheeks and on their eye-lids;
							And their arms so plump and chubby
							Have grown lumpy from his kisses.
							Even now our youths and seignors
							Cuss in undertones and whispers
							At the work of Mosqui-to-to.
							Leave us, leave us, Mosqui-to-to!
							Leave us to enjoy the springtime.
							Be not partial in your visits,
							Go to Gosport or Romona--
							Be a Gosport Mosqui-to-to
							Go and give to them the ha-ha
							Go and guy them Withahaha.
							Withahaha dry and juiceless
							Yea the laugh with daggers in it,
							Be a swell, an out-and-outer;
							Come not back again to bore us;
							With your bill so oft presented.
							Come not back again to ramble
							In our village, 'round our doorways.
							Go thou hence--go thou and leave us
							Come not back again to grieve us,
							Then to Manitou the Mighty
							We our thanks will send exulting.
						
					


					

					
						The Alamo

						"Thermopolyae had its messenger of defeat. The Alamo had none."

						
							Far to the southward and westward--out on' the frontier of Texas,
							Stands the old mission del Alamo; Alamo, place of the cottonwoods,
							Founded by early Franciscans, builded of bricks of adobe.
							Here in the trackless wilds the padres came preaching the gospel,
							Here came the early Franciscans and founded a chain of these missions;
							A chain reaching far to the southward, linked the savage to civilization.
							The Mission of the Conception, the first of the chain to the southward
							The Mission of San Jose was next in the chain that they builded;
							Then the Mission San Juan Capistrano, and southward still farther they builded
							The Mission San Francisco Espada, last of the chain to the southward.
							Here worshiped the early Franciscans, and here came the Mexican Indian;
							Coming and going at pleasure, he smoked the peace pipe with the paleface.
						

						
							Here in the Mission del Alamo--when Texas was warring for freedom
							The Texans stored arms and munitions and placed a small band to defend them,
							Nine score they numbered all told, when the Mexican army beseiged them,
							Nine score brave and true under Travis, beseiged in the walls of the mission,
							Travis and Bonham and Bowie, Crockett and Evans and Walker--
							Names graven deep in our history; too deep for time to destroy.
							Here these men waited and watched, with the Mexican army about them,
							Waited and watched in vain for the succor they knew could not reach them.
							Then Bonham slipped out through the lines and rode with a message to Fannin,
							Two hundred miles southward and eastward, but in vain was the message delivered
							Back through the Mexican lines, his life in the balance, came Bonham,
							Back through the circle of Death, to the death that he knew was in waiting;
							Back to his chieftan came Bonham, shunning the life that was offered;
							Diisdaining Life at the cost of a duty well done in half doing.



							

							Back to report he had failed, reinforcements could never be sent them;
							Back to his place in the ranks, by the side of his true hearted comrades,
							Back to the death that he knew was as certain and sure as the daybreak.
						

						
							Up from the east came the light, the gray and the pink of the morning.
							Slowly dispelling the mist that hung like a shroud o'er the fenland.
							Routing the shadows of night-blending the gloom and the darkness
							Into the half-lights of dawn-colors less awesome and sombre.
							Here and there through the gloom blinked the last dying embers of campfires;
							The fires of the army encamped, asleep on their arms in the trenches;
							Rolled in their blankets they slept, and sleeping, they dreamed of the battle.
							Northward and eastward and westward and southward the plain stretched unbroken
							Save by the low rolling swells of the undulating prairie.
							There to the south in the mist loomed the dark silhouette of the mission,
							Sombre and silent it stood, spectral and grim and forbidding.
							Naught broke the stillness that reigned save the gurgle and ripple of water
							Swiftly, yet peacefully, flowing from the north through the square of the
								mission;
							The gurgle and ripple of water that sounded like prattle of children
							And thoughts of the sentries sped back to the firesides where waited their loved
								ones;
							Tears welled to their lashes unchecked, and unchecked flowed down their grim
								faces.
							Down their bronzed cheeks through the lines furrowed deep by exposure and
								hardship.
							When the gray in the east spoke of morning, the sentries on watch in the
								mission
							Detected a stir in the camp of the enemy circled about them;
							Silently, one by one, lights gleamed in the officers' quarters;
							Footsteps, though muffled, were heard, distinct in the stillness of morning;
							Scurrying forms were discerned, approaching and leaving headquarters.
							Suddenly, out of the night a bugle shrieked summons to action.
							The silence of sleep o'er the plain was shattered by notes of a bugle
							Sounding the call "To Arms!" "To Arms!" shrieked the echoes in answer.
							The blanket-wrapped forms by the campfires leaped into life on the instant,
							The bugles of other divisions caught up the refrain and it echoed



							

							Through the encircling camps--the death knell of those in the mission.
							The tramping of feet in the darkness, the neighing and stamping of horses,
							The orders of those in command, the curses, the jests and the laughter,
							The rattle and clank of arms, the scurrying forms in the darkness,
							Presaged disaster dire for the little hand full in the Mission.
						

						
							They rushed at the bugle's first summons, and formed in parade on the plaza
							Where Travis addressed them and told them if any so wished they might leave
								him--
							"Leave me while yet there is time; go ere the battle commences.
							Go and my God speed be with you"--not a man moved from "Atten- tion."
							Not a man moved from his place, and they cheered till the echoes gave answer
							"We will stay with you, Colonel, die with you" they cried as they went to their
								stations.
							Resolute, calm and cool, they waited the launching of battle;
							Unshaken by fear and undaunted, they grimly awaited the onset.
							Even the dozen of sick were furnished with arms and munitions,
							And stretched on their beds of pain, they cooly awaited their summons.
							Then as they waited and watched, the pink of' the east turned to crimson;
							Precurser of horror and death; a mantle of blood o'er the heavens.
							The Mexican bugles rang "Charge!" and on came the Mexican army--
							The Mexicans five thousand strong, shouting and yelling like demons.
							Then clear and distinct o'er the battle rang music, wierd, wild and unearthly,
							The Mexican bands playing "Dugello", the Mexican word meaning "Cut-throat",
							And flaunting the flag of red, "Asking and giving no quarter".
							Each watcher upon the walls shakes hands with his neighbor in silence;
							Rifles are lifted and sighted, the lockstrings of cannon are tightened.
						

						
							Nearer the Mexicans come; a cannon shot booms from the plaza,
							The rifles ring back a reply--Death has begun with the sunrise.
							The onsweeping lines reel and waver; they falter and totter and scatter,
							Then rally again to the north and are once again checked in their onslaught.
							Far off to the east is the roar and the rattle of cannon and rifles,
							Death stalks abroad on the slope to the east of the yard of the convent.
							Then through a lull in the storm again comes that unearthly music



							

							That fiendish and devilish air, "Dugello, Dugello, Dugello".
							Then from the west rings "The Charge"--the west wall is left undefended--
							Over they come with a rush and over the north wall and redoubt,
							Through the ,stockade on the south, yelling like hell-hounds they scramble.
							Travis is shot in his tracks and falls 'cross the trail of his cannon,
							Bonham falls dead at his gun, and falling, his weight pulls the lock-string
							And Hell thunders out from its throat and his death yell is drowned in its
								rumble.
						

						
							Surrounded by fire and steel, disdaining the thought of surrender,
							The brave Texans fight to the last and die with the glory of battle.
							Some rush to the convent and rally, where stretched on their cots, wait the sick
								ones,
							Waiting for Death to call and fearless to answer the summons.
							There in the long, low room, the hospital room of the mission,
							They battle till life goes out and die with the laurels of glory.
							Bowie, alone in his room, lies waiting with grim resolution,
							Burning with fever and pain, his pulse beating higher and higher,
							Till a face, brown and fierce in its anger, peers suddenly in at the doorway
							Then others come, followed by others; the pistol shots rattle and echo;
							Curses and groans fill the room; the bodies of wounded and dying
							Reach from his bed to the door; bayonet-pinned to his death bed
							Bowie was found, and across him, stretched cold in death is his slayer,
							A hoop-iron knife sunk in his bosom and Bowie's dead hand on the handle.
							While some in the walls of the convent seek refuge from numbers o'er-whelming,
							To the church rush Crockett and others to die in its sanctified portals
							Here in a desperate stand, the little band struggles like demons
							With face to the foe at close quarters, they battle with odds overpowering;
						

						
							"Fire the magazine, Evans" cries Crockett, and weakened and faint from his
								bleeding,
							The Major makes one fruitless dash and falls lifeless and limp on the
								threshold.
							Backed in the angle of walls, his enemies swarming about him,
							Dabbled and splashed with blood, his rifle clasped tight by the muzzle
							Crockett is selling his life at a price that will stagger the nation;
							Swinging his weapon of war, he fights on, disdaining surrender,
							Building a breastwork of foes--a breastwork of dead round about him.
							Piled up around him in heaps are the crippled, the dead and the dying--




							

							Numbers soon tell and they rush him like merciless stag-hounds their quarry
							And he sinks beneath numbers too great and their bayonets drink up his
								life-blood.
							But one man is left--gunner Walker--the last man in arms in the mission,
							And they toss him aloft on their bayonets--laugh at his feeble resistance.
							So ends the Alamo struggle--the nine score against the five thousand.
							The flag of two stars is hauled down, for none is now left to defend it.
						

						
							But one scene remains to be pictured--the last' of this blood-dripping story;
							You ask "Where the graves of these heroes?" "Where do these martyrs lie
								sleeping?"
							Their tomb is in History's page-they sleep in the hearts of the people.
							No grave oped to close o'er their bones: no sepulchre walls are built 'round
								them.
							None save the Alamo walls, where the bodies were burned by the victors.
							As the dead demigod of the ancients was laid on his funeral pyre--
							As the Chief of the Vikings in death, in his burning ship sailed to Valhalla--
							So in the Alamo walls were the dead heroes wafted to heaven.
							Piled in a pyramid towering--in layers of wood and of bodies--
							The torch was applied, and their ashes stirred by the zephyrs of heaven--
							Scattered and hallowed the ground and the walls of the Alamo mission.
						

						
							Wherever men sing love of heroes, these heroes will not be forgotten.
							Graven too deep are their names for the ravage of Time to destroy.
						

						Thermopolyae sent word of defeat. From the Alamo none brought the message.
					






					

					
						
						
							It seemed a livin' thing t' me--that rail fence by th' road--
							A livin', breathin' human friend that years ago I'd knowed.
						
					



					

					
						The Rail Fence By the Road

						
							Me an' Marthy's left th' farm an' come in here t' town
							T' kinda take things easy an' sort o' settle down
							With Mary Ellen an' her man, that works in one ' th' stores.
							They let us sort o' potter 'round an' he'p'em with th' chores,
							But it's jist a trifle lonesome with nothin' much t' do
							'Cept tinker round at this an' that an' I git feelin' blue.
							An' tother day I tuk a walk out past th' aidge o' town
							Jist fer a little breathin' spell an' sorter look aroun.'
							I sa'ntered down an old woods road, all lined with briers an' weeds,
							An' passed a patch o' swamp land, growed up in cat tail reeds,
							Down thoo a little holler where a spring branch crossed th' road,
							On, up th' hill on tother side, an' found a friend I knowed.
							An ole rail fence! Not many left, an' so it seemed t' be
							A friend from out th' airly days a-waitin' there fer me;
							A friend enshrined in briers an' bresh an' wreathed in pizen vine,
							And ever' rail was greetin' me with "Howdy, friend o' mine."
							I waded over to it thoo th' weeds an' briers an' grass
							An' clim' up on a corner where a little sassafras
							Saplin' reared its head an' kinda seemed t' be
							A-sayin', thoo its rattlin' leaves, a "Howdy do" t' me.
							I let my hand rest on th' rails an' it seemed t' me as though
							I felt th' pulsin' heart beats--felt th' blood-rush come an' go;
							It seemed a livin' thing t' me--that rail fence by th' road--
							A livin', breathin' human friend that years ago I'd knowed.
							It stretched its length afore me, zig-zaggin' down th' hill,
							Acrost th' bottom pasture an' on t' Hudson's mill
							Where, in a patch o' timber, its sight was lost t' view--
							An' ever' wind-tossed blade an' leaf was wavin' "Howdy do."
							An' while I set there musin' a chipmunk hopped along
							A rail an' stopped t' lessen to a thrush's cheerin' song;
							A squirrel run down a shagbark an' up a chinkapin
							An' yander in th' medder a quail was chimin' in
							With his three-note whissel solo. An' in a patch o' brush
							Two jays was sassin' squallin', then they swooped out with a rush
							Fightin' as they went. Th' hull bunch seemed t' be
							A-singin', squallin', whisselin' a "Howdy do" to me.
							An' then I got t' thinkin' of th' days that's past an' gone
							An' thinkin' of th' time t' come when I'd be passin' on
							To th' land o' light an' glory where th' sun is never hid,
							Where we'll know an' greet our neighbors as on earth we allus did;
							Where th' gates is made of jasper an' th' streets is paved with gold
							An' where we'll all be born ag'in t' never more grow old;
							But when I git t' heaven, one thing I want t' see--
							Saint Peter on a rail fence wavin' "Howdy do" t' me.
						
					



					

					
						Kitchen Shower Gifts

						
							BAIL! BAIL!

							
								If, on the sea of wedded life,
								Waves, rolling mountain-high,
								Threaten to swamp the little craft
								Don't fret, but "dipper" dry.
							
						

						
							LULLABY

							
								She sits beside the glowing hearth
								And the cradle gently rocks,
								Soothing the little one to sleep
								With the music of the "rattle-box."
							
						

						
							MUSICAL

							
								Mendelssohn and Gottschalk
								May soothe an aching soul,
								But the stomach likes the music
								Of the wooden "Chopin" bowl.
							
						
					

					
						Good Night Nurse

						
							First there came a touch of Typhus, followed quickly by the Grippe;
							Then, as springtime flowers blossom, we receive another dip,
							And the Measles, little elf, just lays back and spreads itself,
							Till the "measly" rascal's got the whole blame city in his grip.
						
					



					

					
						Visitin' at Grampa's

						
							I can 'member, 'ist as well,
							Grampa's log house standin' there,
							Out'n th' country an' ever'thing
							Ist as quiet, ever'where.
							Wuzn't no racket goin' on,
							'Less Uncle George's boys
							Comedy over; 'nen you bet
							They's ist all kinds o' noise.
						

						
							'Cause we'd all ist run an' jump
							An' whoop an' holler an' yell
							An' play leap frog 'n' hidenwhoop--
							Ist me an' Ben an' El'.
							Nen out under th' cedar trees
							Set wite down on' th' ground
							An' eat corn dodgers gramma maked
							An' lay there an' waller round.
						

						
							An' grampa in his rockin' chair
							Ud set up in th' door
							A hummin' tunes, an' purty soon
							He'd stop an' don't hum any more
							'Cause he's asleep; an' he'd ist nod,
							An' drop his walkin' stick,
							An' nod some more; 'n' all at once
							He'd wake up 'ist as quick.
						

						
							An' gramma'd make corn dodgers
							An' give t' me; 'n'en
							I'd run out to th' barn yard
							T' feed th' speckled hen
							An' th' gooses an' th' ganders
							An' th' goslin'ses an' all.
							My! How they'd come a-runnin,
							An' a-squawkin' when I'd call!
						

						
							Th' li'l' red nosed goslin'ses
							Wuz th' cutest li'l' things;
							They had th' funniest lil' feet
							An' teenty weenty wings.
							An' onct 'ole gobbler gobbled me
							An' I ist purt nigh died
							F'm skeer, but ma said "Shoo!"
							An' he runned, an 'en I cried.
						

						
							I can 'member, ist as well,
							That ole house a-standin' there,
							Whur ever'thing 'uz still as death
							An' all's outdoors an' air.
							With gramma in th' kitchen
							A-movin' here an' there,
							An' grampa settin' in th' door
							A-dozin' in his chair.
						
					


					

					
						The Battle of Brawn

						Adapted from the original, apropos of the football
									season.

						
							It was a summer evening,
							Old Kaspar's work was done
							And he, before his cottage door,
							Was sitting in the sun.
							And by him' sported on the green
							His little grandchild Wilhelmine.
							She saw her brother Peterkin
							Roll something large and round
							Which he, beside the rivulet,
							In playing there, had found.
							He came to ask what he had found
							That was so large and smooth and round.
							Old Kaspar took it from the boy
							Who stood expectant by,
							And then the old man shook his head
							And with a natural sigh,
							"'Tis some poor fellow's skull," quoth he
							"Who fell in that great victory.
							I find them in the garden,
							For there's many hereabout,
							And often when I go to plow,
							The plowshare turns them out,
							For many, many men," said he
							"Were slain in that great victory."
							"Now tell us what 'twas all about,"
							Young Peterkin, he cries,
							While little Wilhelmine looks up
							With wonder-waiting eyes.
							"Now tell us all about the fight
							And why they killed them all outright."
							"It was the Princetons," Kaspar cried,
							"Who put the Yales to rout,
							But what they killed each other for
							I could not quite make out.
							But everybody said," quoth he,
							"That 'twas a famous victory.
							My father lived at Harlem then,
							Near old Long Island Sound,
							He went to see that football game
							And was right there on the ground;



							

							He and his wife, they saw the game,
							Saw them mangle and crush and maim
							With rush and tackle and rush again
							They slew on every side
							And many a college chappie
							Went there that day and died.
							But things like that, you know, must be
							At every famous victory.
							They say it was a shocking sight,
							After the game was won,
							For many, many bodies there
							Laying baking in the sun.
							But things like that, you know, must be
							At every famous victory.
							Great praise the Princeton players won
							No braver men were seen."
							"Why, 'twas a very, wicked thing!"
							Said little Wilhelmine.
							"Nay, nay, my little girl," quoth he,
							"It was a famous victory.
							And everybody praised the men
							Who this great game did win."
							"But what good came of it at last?"
							Asked little Peterkin.
							"They beat the Yales on that great day,"
							Old Kaspar said, said he,
							"And won the football championship
							In that great victory."
						
					




					

					
						The Poet Laureate

						
							A poet young and hungry with ambitions high and great
							Sighed for highest honors--to be Poet Laureate.
						

						
							He journeyed into Africa 'mid hot and burning sands,
							To write his odes in solitude-his songs of far-off lands.
						

						
							One day as he sat wrapt in thought he was "rapped" behind in deed
							And the Cannibal King said "Laura, dear, we'll serve him fricaseed."
						

						
							"Who art thou?" asked St. Peter of the shade outside the gate.
							And the shade spake up and softly lisped: "I'm the poet Laura ate."
						
					

					
						Ye Fisher

						
							As summer days grow warm and fine
							Anon ye fisher with his hook and line
							And saplin' pole doth amble to ye stream
							To idly lounge in happiness supreme.
							He angles long, but angling bringeth naught;
							Ye suckers and ye bass will not be caught.
							Anon, forlorn, he ambles back at night
							With trousers damp, and mammoth appetite.
						
					





					

					
						The Men Behind the Guns

						Dedicated to the Yankee Soldiers and Sailors in
									1898

						
							When we sing our heroes' praises and the deeds that they have done;
							When we tell our childrens' children of the bloody battles won;
							When we tell of Dewey's duty and of Shafter's nobly done,
							Don't forget to breathe a whisper for the man behind the gun.
						

						
							For the powder-blackened heroes mid the sickening, blinding smoke,
							Dirt-begrimed and blood be-spattered, galling 'neath the battle-yoke.
							Think of these fire-tested heroes--Liberty's loyal, loving sons--
							Think of these and add a whisper for the men behind the guns.
						

						
							When we decorate the headstones of our nation's loyal dead;
							When we plant a little banner o'er each loyal sleeper's head;
							When salutes are fired in honor of the sleeping, silent ones,
							Drop a tear and ask God's blessing for the men behind the guns.
						
					


					
						Ode to a Waier Melon

						
							The meloncholera days are come,
							The saddest of the year;
							The southern winds and chirping birds
							Proclaim that summer's here.
							Lonesome lying in a window
							Of a grocery store down town,
							Is a pale green water melon
							And a card which says "Marked down."
						

						
							Gaily then we go and mortgage
							House and lot and all things dear,
							And buy that festive water melon,
							Take it home the folks to cheer.
							Gathered round the supper table
							We eat that melon with delight
							And suffer pangs of cholera morbus
							All through the lonesome night.
						
					



					

					
						Old Rush Branch Church

						
							Idly here close by the roadside
							An old log cabin stands,
							Showing by its sad forlornness
							The work of Time's defacing hands.
							The stone fireplace has fallen in--
							A bed where rank weeds grow,
							Grass and mosses, vines and thistles--
							And daisies their meek faces show.
						

						
							Up the walls and o'er the shingles
							The poison ivy slowly creeps,
							And from among the mud-chinked rafters
							The timid little lizard peeps.
							Up through cracks in the flooring
							The wild grass thickly grows,
							While through the roof and o'er the walls
							God's blessed sunlight shows.
						

						
							O'er the old and broken doorway
							A spider's web is spun--
							A fragile bar which seems to say
							"Admittance here to none."
							Among the rafters overhead
							Are little homes of mud--
							Insects, animals, reptiles cold
							Occupy this House of God.
						

						
							House of God! How great the contrast
							'Twixt this house of logs and clay
							And the modern architecture
							That we praise God in today.
							House of God! How lonely standing!
							Left to crumble and decay;
							"Dust thou art, to dust returneth"--
							Man and his work thus pass away.
						

						
							House of God. Here once assembled
							When the week's rough toil was o'er,
							Honest men to offer praises
							To the God of rich and poor.
							Not as master and the mastered
							Came they here to sing their praise,
							But as men they came, and brothers,


							

							Together sang God's melodies.
							Caste! There was none, all were equal.
							Caste! It was not known to them,
							Brother shook the hand of brother,
							Face to face they stood as men.
							Here they came and knelt together
							On the rugged, rough-hewn planks;
							Here they came, and here together
							Offered God their humble thanks.
						

						
							Thanks for health and rugged manhood,
							Thanks for love and light and life,
							Thanks to God for manly courage
							To meet Life's fitful, changing strife.
							No bell called them to' this Chapel,
							No clock ticked the hours away--
							Each one knew that he was wanted,
							Needed, on the Sabbath day.
						

						
							Here they came and knelt together
							On the rugged, rough-hewn floor;
							Here they came, the proud and humble,
							And to none was barred the door.--
							Idly now the old log structure
							Stands lone and lonely there,
							Scarred by Time's relentless fingers--
							An old log House of Prayer.
						
					

					
						Lines

						To Owen County's old Court House.

						
							Reuben, Reuben, I've be'n thinkin'
							An' I still am in the dark;
							I've be'n tryin' t' figger out, sir,
							What become of Noah's ark.
						

						
							Cynthy, Cynthy, I'm a thinkin'
							I can clear up all yore doubts.
							Noah's ark's right here in Spencer--
							Owen County's old Court House.
						
					




					

					
						The Trimmer

						
							In the spring the Trimmer's fancy takes a soaring, sky-high flight
							And she rigs up Easter bonnets in a style that's "out o' sight";
							She corrals the Muse with ribbons, then with whisk and swish and swirl,
							She turns out hats ecstatic to delight the summer girl.
						

						
							With a thousand twists of ribbons bright; with feathers, defunct birds,
							She produces bonnets that defy all Noah Webster's words.
							Takes feathers from the ostrich, caught in Afric's burning sands,
							And plumage from the myriad birds of all the foreign lands,
						

						
							Takes sea weed from old Ocean's depths and beads from Hindoostan,
							And tiger eyes from India, fancy lace from old Japan--
							She combines all nature's products with a flighty, stray sunbeam
							And they collect and intermingle in the Trimmer's dizzy dream.
						
					

					
						Follow-Ups

						
							
								Her cherry lips are out of reach,
								To pair with her I often sigh;
								Full well I know she is a peach,
								She is the apple of my eye.
							

							--Cincinnati Enquirer.
						

						
							
								The turgid current of my joy
								In vain I would be stemmin'.
								You have plumcot this fair haired boy,
								I hope you're not a lemon.
							

							--Indianapolis Star.
						

						
							
								Tut, tut, young fair-haired laddie boy,
								Why don't you use your reason?
								You know a lemon's always best
								After it's had a squeezin'.
							
						
					



					

					
						Joe Pinkard's Weddin' A Chronicle of the Early
								Days of Owen County.

						
							I often think of gran' dad's yarns
							Of th' airly days; of buildin' barns
							An' livin' quarters, an' rollin' logs,
							Burnin' bresh an' killin' hogs;
							Th' big barn dances an' huskin' bees.
							Spellin' matches an' sometimes these
							Blanket kickin's that used t' be
							So popular back in 'twenty-three;
							Th' big wood choppin's they used t' hold
							An' a lot of other tales he told.
							But th' weddin' story appeared t' be
							Th' best of th' lot; so't seemed t' me.
							He'd set in his cheer--I c'n see him yit--
							By th' wide fireplace, an' smoke an' spit
							In th' open fire an' talk of days
							Of th' airly times an' th' airly ways.
						

						

						
							Now this weddin' yarn he used t' tell
							Concerned Joe Pinkard, a fairly well
							Meanin' young farm workin' hand
							Who was tendin' a crop on Hudson's land--
							Up north o' here some six, eight mile--
							Grubbin' stumps an' layin' tile
							Thoo th' oozy swamp land 'long th' branch
							That meandered down thoo Hudson's ranch.
							Joe tuk a shine to as sprightly a lass
							As ever peeped into a lookin' glass;
							Rosy cheeked an' ruby lipped
							With a wisp o' ches'nut hair that slipped
							Kinda out f'm under her bonnet's edge
							An' fluttered about like a tuft o' sedge
							Grass down 'n th' bottom lands.
							Her eyes fair sparkled an' flashed commands
							That Joe'd jist jump t' carry thoo
							Er bust a gallus tryin' to.
							Tall an' straight, clean limbed an' strong,
							A stiddy worker an' jist along
							About nineteen year' old er
							So when Joe begun a-sparkin' her.
							She worked fer old John Mitchell then,



							

							He'pin his wife. But 'y jacks, when
							Mitchell begun t' smell a mouse
							He mighty nigh tore down th' house;
							Stormed an' r'ared an' jist went on,
							Fumed an' fussed till his breath was gone.
							He cracked his fists an' stomped his hat
							An' said he'd putt an end t' that
							Forthwith an' sudden. Then he thinks
							T' call her names: "ungrateful minx",
							"Brazen hussy", "spiteful cat"
							An' a lot o' ugly things like that.
							But Marthy smiled an' tossed her head
							A little higher an' then, 'y Ned,
							She jist lit in an' give ole John
							A real tongue lashing with whiskers on.
							She'd worked fer him "f'm dawn t' dusk
							Year in, year out, an' nary a husk"
							Had he paid her 'cept board an' keep.
							She 'lowed if her work was s' overly cheap
							She'd work fer herse'f in a home o' her own;
							An' out she went an' left'em alone.
							When John come to fust thing he knowed
							He seed her marchin' down th' road
							With head helt high an' arms a-swing;
							On past th' willer that shaded th' spring,
							Round th' hill where th' thick bunch grass
							Had nigh outgrowed th' sassafras
							Along th' fence row. An' so she left
							Th' Mitchells whur she'd done th' heft
							O' th' work fer up'ards o' thirteen year.
							She come on over t' gran' dad's here
							An' nothin'd do but he must go
							T' Hudson's an' take th' word t' Joe.
							She set th' time for noon next day--
							Joe, of course, had nothin' t' say--
							But git th' squire er minister,
							Hitch her t' him an' him t' her.
							It caught Joe nappin' an' his su'prise
							Jist stared out thoo his big round eyes,
							But he gapped fer breath an' heaved a sigh
							An' over his face come a "do-er-die"
							Sort of a look, an' then he smiled
							That he was happily rikonciled
							To th' inscrutable ways of Provi-dence.
							He sa'ntered over t' th' garden fence,



							

							Leaned his big frame 'crost th' gate
							An' begun forthwith t' enumerate
							Th' details of th' great event
							That he considered wuz heaven-sent.
							Joe'd looked forward fer quite a spell
							To th' ringin' of his weddin' bell,
							An' had figgered ahead on this an' that
							Of all his outfit--boots t' hat.
							But here it wuz, th' day of days,
							An' he wuz ketched contrariways;
							Clothes he had--two homespun suits
							An' a coonskin cap, but had no boots.
							He'd worked th' hull blame summer in
							Buck skin pants an' moccasins--
							Savin' his homespun an' waitin' th' day
							Th' old boot maker tromped round that way,
							Figgerin' he'd have a bran new pair
							Th' day he wed his lady fair.
							But here he wuz, the big day come,
							An' him no boots, an' say, 'y gum,
							He done some figger'n'--fust an' last--
							An' done some thinkin', quick an' fast;
							But ever' idy wuz cast aside
							Huntin' fer one more simplified.
							But Hudson had some hides he'd tanned
							An' said he'd make a pair by hand
							An' promised shore he'd have 'em done
							By noon next day. An' he begun
							Forthwith t' measure an' cut an' sew
							An' fashion th' weddin' boots fer Joe.
							Stitching' an' vampin' far in th' night
							By a taller candle's feeble light;
							His eye balls burned, th' whites turned red,
							An' he pulled wax ends till his arms felt dead.
							Up next mornin' an' at it ag'in,
							Workin' th' dull awl out an' in;
							Pullin' th' wax' ends hard an' tight
							An' drivin' pegs with all his might.
						

						

						
							But hard luck hit pore Joe ag'in--
							More trouble come a-edgin' in;
							Now that they'd found th' cowhide, tanned,
							Th' pesky cows they tuk a hand.
							Here it wuz, Joe's weddin' day,
							An' th' tarnal cows had wandered away.




							

							Lost in th' woods, th' Lord knowed where--
							Some'rs out in th' big "Out There."
							Hudson wuz busy makin' boots
							An' hadn't time t' hunt th' brutes
							So he detailed Joe an' off he went
							Lickety split on th' old gray, bent
							Kneed mare. He rid an' rid--
							Th' clouds come up an' th' sun wuz hid;
							He hunted here an' hunted there,
							Nervously urgin' th' old gray mare
							To faster gait--an' ever on
							They traveled till noonday wuz gone.
							No trace of th' cows could pore Joe find
							Though many a mile he'd left behind;
							Rode east an' south--er thought he did--
							Couldn't tell fer th' sun wuz hid--
							But he traveled furder an' furder still
							Searched dusky holler an' thicket an' hill
							But found no cows, ner any trace
							Of Red er Spot er old Bald Face.
							He looked about in fear an' awe--
							But not a landmark he ever saw
							Before wuz there t' greet his eye;
							He searched th' woods an' searched th' sky
							Tryin' t' find some familiar thing
							T' guide him in his wandering.
							An' then at last he knowed he's lost
							When down in a holler he come acrost
							A spring branch he had never seen.
							That gurgled an' babbled along between
							Th' beeches an' oaks an' sycamores;
							Not a spot in th' hull outdoors
							That Joe, in his plight, could reco'nize
							As he stared about with frightened eyes.
							Then he tuk th' shakes an' his fever riz
							An' his muscles ached like th' rheumatiz;
							His throbbin' head jist buzzed an' roared
							Like bumble bees inside th' old gourd
							Dipper hung 'longside th' well.
							As his fever riz his spirits fell
							Till he was e'ena' most tuckered out
							Tryin' t' figger his way about.
							He thought of bears an' catamounts,
							An' Indians that wandered hereabouts--
							He wondered if they'd scalp him first,
							Er kill him 'fore they done their worst;



							

							Bewildered an' he'pless, Joe looked about
							Tryin' t' figger which way out
							O' th' trackless woods an' home ag'in
							Where bride an' Squire awaited him
							Till finally a bright idee
							Formed in his mind an' he says, says 'e
							"I'll turn th' old mare loose, 'y jacks,
							She knows th' way an' she'll make tracks
							Straight for home an' Hudson's barn."--
							So here th'old mare enters this weddin' yarn.
							Th' mare turned round an' started back,
							Joe follerin' close in th' old gray's track;
							She kep' th' lad a-travelin' fast--
							She stepped out brisk fer noon was past
							An' she was hungry an' wanted corn.
							But in this haste new trouble was born.--
							She stepped in a yeller jackets' nest
							An' f'm that p'int on, 'y jing, th' rest
							O' that trip was made by travelin' fast.
							Joe knowed blame well he didn't dast
							Lose a sight o' that old gray mare
							'T' leave him wanderin' he'pless there.
							Her head helt high, her tail a-whisk,
							Kickin' an' snortin' an' tryin' t' frisk
							Herse'f free of th' pesky things
							That follered close on angry wings,
							Thoo hazel thickets, thoo briers an' brush
							Th' gray mare charged with frightened rush
							Seekin' t' brush th' plague aside
							That burned an' stung her old gray hide.
							She threshed thoo thickets an' over logs,
							Floundered her way thoo oozy bogs,
							Joe a-follerin' like old Grim Death
							Runnin' his best an' gappin' fer breath.
							He knowed full well deliverance lay
							In stickin' close t' that old gray.
							A swingin' limb hit his face a slap,
							A brier snatched off his coonskin cap--
							Th' only cap he had, an' yit,
							He couldn't stop t' rescue it.
							On he floundered, an' ever on,
							Heavin' great sobs, his breath clean gone,
							He struggled an' staggered an' follered along
							Though certain sure th' mare wuz wrong.
							Then thoo a thicket he plunged at last
							T' stop in wonder an' stare aghast--




							

							There wuz th' clearin'; th' cabin stood
							Jist yander at th' aidge o' th' wood;
							An' there wuz Hdson an' Marthy, too,
							Wringin', her hands an' laughin' thoo
							Tear-soaked eyes that welcomed him.
							There wuz Nin' Steele an' there stood Jim
							Bigger an' th' marryin' Squire--
							Feller named Jake McIntyre--
							Jim Galletly an' Hart an' Dunn
							An' all th' neighbors--ever' one.
							An' "looky yander! Drat my stars!"
							Th' cows wuz at th' feedin' bars!
							Joe heaved a sigh that shuk his frame
							An' staggered a step er two an' blame
							My trap, he looked--an' stopped--
							An' then, 'y jing sir, down he dropped
							Like a poll-axed beef 'n' there he laid.
							Marthy screamed an' then she made
							About two jumps an' retch his side
							An' grabbed him in her arms an' cried,
							An' tuk on scan'lous--petted him--
							Ruffled his hair-an' called t' Jim
							T' bring some water-an' rubbed his han's,
							An' kissed his face, an'--oh, my lan's--
							I dunno what she didn't do
							Till Joe showed signs o' comin' to
							An' set up, kinda mystified,
							While Marthy jist knelt there an' cried
							An' laughin' at him thoo her tears--
							Hysteric mixture, joy an' fears.
							Joe wuz up in about three shakes
							Of a lamb's tail; then he takes
							Marthy in his arms like he's fergot
							They's other folks there on th' spot,
							Er jist don't care--guess that's what
							We'd orter say, as like as not.
							Joe swapped his tattered workday clo'es
							Fer his weddin' suit, an' goodness knows
							Them boots looked queer t' say th' least--
							Jist tan leather an' not been greased
							Er colored. Too big 'n th' top
							They seemed disposed t' kinda lop
							Over sideways, gee an' haw.
							Joe looked funny 'nuff, but shaw,
							Him ner Marthy didn't care
							An' looked as proud a-standin' there




							

							As a weddin' team of Royalty
							While each to each pledged loyalty.
						

						

						
							An' that's th' yarp gran' dad told me--
							Th' best o' th' lot, it seemed t' me--
							As he set in his cheer--I c'n see him yit--
							By th' wide fire place, an' smoked an' spit
							In th' open fire, an' talked of th' days
							Of th' airly times an' th' airly ways.
						
					

					
						A Reply To H. A. J.'s verse; "Another
								Patriot."

						
							That don't sound like loyalty--
							"Jeff" surely must be jokin'.
							We'd banked on Jeffries bein'
							Right up whar twuz smokin'.
						

						
							Surely he won't set around
							Whar th' fish is bitin'
							An' t'other boys up in front,
							Dyin' bravely fightin'.
						

						
							Grab a, smokin' musket,
							Load up an' wade right in
							An' when th' fightin's over
							Take up yer pole ag'in.
						

						
							Henry, when we uster
							Go wheelin' 'long th' pike
							You'd give vent to feelin's
							Kinda poet-like.
						

						
							Talkin' 'bout th' scen'ry
							An' our glorious land;
							Now the country needs yuh--
							Step up an' show yer hand.
						

						
							Think it over, Jeffries,
							Change yer mind a bit;
							Lay yer fishin' pole away,
							Come up an' show yer grit.
						
					


					

					
						Rastus Drove the Turkey

						
							Jevver watch a darky
							Drive a turkey through a gap?
							Specially when th' turkey
							Wouldn't go through worth a snap?
							Seed one try it yistidy;
							Golly, how he'd swear!
							Didn't do a bit o' good--
							Turkey didn't care.
							He'd flop his wings an' gobble,
							Go a-sailin' past th' gate
							'N' back ag'in. Th' darky stopped
							An' scratched his wooly pate,
							An' swore awhile an' scotched awhile
							An ripped around an' tore;
							But th' turk just passed th' gate ag'in,
							Same's he'd done before.
							Then th' darky grabbed some sticks
							An' went a-sailin' in,
							An' said "Now dern yer onry pelt",
							An' then th' fun come in.
							"G'lang thar," sez 'e, an' blazed away;
							"Y'all caint fool 'ith me,
							I pays mah hones' debts, I do"--
							Broke a stick across his knee.
							"Shoo thar," sez 'e, an' hit th' fence,
							But th' turkey wasn't there,
							An' th' darky he jist fumed an' fussed
							An' cuss words filled th' air.
							Then he got his dander up
							An' tried t' run him down;
							Got him cornered, made a grab;
							K-slap, he hit th' ground.
							This made th' darky pow'ful mad.
							He grabbed a hick'ry limb
							An' says "I'll fix yuh now, 'y jacks,"
							An' blindly waded in.
							He shut his eyes an' raised his club
							An' brought it down k-smack;
							He hit th' turk an' awful lick
							Right squar' acrost th' back--
							Er thought he did--but when he looked
							Th' turkey he was minus,



							

							'But thar he was, way down th' fence,
							Struttin' like th' fines'.
							Th' darky then drapped down t' rest
							An' says "Well, I don' care.
							I didn't want yuh in nohow;
							Stay outside where yuh air."
							But th' darky jist k'flummixed--
							He was laid out jist plumb cold
							When th' turkey come a-walkin' up
							An' sa'ntered through th' hole.
							Now, allus, when yer doin' things,
							Jist use yer common sense
							If yer only drivin' turkeys
							Through a hole 'n a barnyard fence.
						
					

					
						Keep Pegging Away

						
							There's a little old shoemaker lives in our block
							Who works right ahead like a Seth Thomas clock;
							He goes to work early and quits his work late
							Day in and day out--never misses a date.
						

						
							He sits at his bench with his long apron tied
							Tight 'round his waist; with his tools at his side--
							His hammer, his last, his knife and his awl;
							And he trims and he shaves while the leather chips fall.
						

						
							I stop at his door, he looks up with a grin,
							A cheery "good morning" and "won't you come in?"
							He'll chat with you, laugh, anytime of the day,
							But while he is chatting, keeps pegging away.
						

						
							He says that's his motto to carry him through
							And it fits everybody, whatever we do;--
							Be sure of your goal as you meet life each day,
							And once your goal's set, keep pegging away.
						
					




					

					
						hit or Miss

						
							MODERN MILKMAID

							
								"Where are you going, my pretty maid?"
								"I'm going milking, sir," she said.
								"The cows went this way", the youth replied;
								"But the pump is yonder" she laughingly cried.
							
						

						
						
							READ'EM

							
								Of all the signs that dot the land
								You sure can bank on this'n
								When driving upon a railroad track;
								"Stop--and Look--and Listen".
							
						

						
						
							MODERN BRAND

							
								Music (?) hath charms to soothe the savage,
								Rend the rock and bu'st the cabbage.
								Rip the pickets off the fence
								And rob a man of his common sense.
							
						

						
						
							NOW YOU TELL ONE

							
								O, ever thus from childhood's hour
								This cruel fate hath beep my lot;
								The cheerful idiot wakes me up
								To tell a tale he most forgot.
							
						

						
						
							COLD WAVE

							
								Little Willy had a mirror
								And he licked the back all off;
								This caused his throat to tickle
								And this tickle caused a cough.
								Little Willy now is happy
								In the Happy Hunting Ground--
								'Twas a chilly day for Willy
								When the mercury went down.
							
						
					



					

					
						Walnut Time

						
							Course I don't know who's t' blame,
							But seems t' me it's a daggone shame
							'At jist when walnut time sets in
							A feller's school days has t' begin.
							Who wants t' say his A B C's.
							When he ort t' be a-climbin' trees
							An' shakin' walnuts? Gee-mi-nee!
							Hones' t' goodness, I can't see
							Whur's th' fun o' settin' still
							An' lookin' out th' winder till
							Yuh jist go plumb purt nigh t' sleep
							An' dream an' nod, an' nod an' keep
							Wakin' up an' noddin' till, by heck,
							Yuh jist, w'y, might' near crack yer neck.
							Gee-mi-nee it sure takes cheek
							T' make us go five days a week
							An' set inside; daggone it's tough--
							W'y jimminy crickets! one's enough!
							Th' way it is we' only got
							One day a week, an' like as not
							It'll be rainy. Jist one day!
							Can't git walnuts thataway.
							Jist Sattiday! Cause when Sunday comes
							We gotta set an' twist o'r thumbs
							An' be dressed up. W'y, hully gee.
							That way o' doin' don't suit me.
							An' I know whur th' walnuts is--
							Jist oodles of 'em. An' gee whiz--
							Grea' big trees! Big 'round as that!
							Walnuts, too, big as yer hat
							Might' near; jist hangin' thick--
							An' me here with a 'rithmetic
							An' spellin' book! But Sattiday
							Me an' Scrubby's goin' away-y-y-y
							Clean out 'crost Rattlesnake
							To Ring schoolhouse, an' we're go' take
							O'r two-wheel carts with a box nailed on
							An' fetch in walnuts by th' ton.
							An' in th' evenin's after school
							We'll set in th' shade whur's nice an' cool
							An' hull'em. 'N' I'll bet my neck
							'At we'll have more'n a hundred peck
							A dryin' on th' woodshed roof an'




							

							Scrubby's barn. An' if I can
							I'm a-goin' t' try an' git
							Jist a lot more walnuts yit.
							An' when they're hulled an' put away
							An' we go back t' school next day
							With o'r hands all black er brown
							Teacher'll up an' call us down
							'Bout o'r dirty hands, an' say:
							"You rapscallions! wash away.
							Scrub 'em hard an' don't you quit
							Till you've washed off ever' bit."
							But jimminy beeswax! taint no use
							T' try t' wash off walnut juice
							Cause it won't come off. W'y it jist stays
							An' won't come off fer days an' days,
							Till it jist wears off.--'N'en, yuh know,
							We put more on ever' day er so.
						
					



					
						THE CHICAGO RIVER

						
							I stood on the bridge at midnight,
							Or some'ers near that hour,
							While the fumes rose up about me
							And hid the dark church tower.
						

						
							How often! O! how often
							In the days that lie before,
							Will the microbes chant their death songs
							As they used to heretofore.
						
					

					
						CORNS

						
							We've been to see chiropodists and doctors by the score
							But still that misery's there as 'twas in days of yore.
							We've used corn salve of different kinds, cornplasters, sealing wax,
							But still the corns are hanging on--we think we'll try the axe.
						
					



					

					
						The hobsonito

						Popular Back in 1898

						
							There's a bug that's causing trouble
							Round about us everywhere
							And animated kisses
							Whiz about us through the air.
							It's a species new to northern climes
							But in hotter ones abound,
							But since Hobson made his world-famed tour
							The Kissing Bug's come round.
						

						
							He lights on lips that ne'er were kissed
							And kisses right and left--
							He has no thought of unkissed lips
							When he commits his theft--
							But takes alike the young and old,
							The white or colored miss,
							And buzzes round and round and round,
							And then he takes his kiss.
						

						
							The air, they say, is full of them--
							These naughty little bugs;
							The atmosphere is thronged with them--
							These same crustaceous thugs.
							The unkissed lips of Sweet Sixteen
							Are on the kisser's list
							And he'll be around to see you
							So no one will be missed.
						

						
							So, when you're on the avenue
							To take a little walk,
							Or settled on your coal front porch
							To have a quiet talk,
							You'd better mind your business--
							Better watch what you're about--
							For the Kissing Bug'll get you
							If you don't watch out.
						
					




					

					
						Squibs

						
							A HAIR'S BREADTH

							
								Oh dreary day! Oh rainy day!
								My heart's with anguish wrung,
								I dare not go outside today
								For bangs will not stay bung.
							
						

						

						
							HELPS SOME

							
								"The melancholy days are come,
								The saddest of the year."
								But joyous thought! Oh happy boon!
								The time for sorghum's here.
							
						

						

						
							JOHNNY GETS THE GUN

							
								Little Willy had a monkey
								Mounted on a stick.
								He licked the paint all off the monk
								Which made him very sick.
								No more will Willy shoot at Johnny
								With his little wooden gun;
								He has gone where he don't need it,
								So--"Johnny gets the gun."
							
						

						

						
							BACK IN '98

							
								Shafter, he's a cracker-jack,
								Shafter, he's a stunner;
								He said he'd lick old Toral, and
								By jiminy, he done'er.
							
						

						

						
							THE GOLFER

							
								Now comes ye wild-eyed golfer with the Oolong style of hair,
								Across the hazy pasture land we see him everywhere,
								Putting at the gutta percha,
								"Foozles" in a way that hurtsya
								While Scottish Highland cuss words rip and rattle through the air.
							
						
					





					

					
						here and There

						
							MOTHER GOOSE ELABORATED

							
								Little Miss Muffett sat on a tuffet
								Eating of curds and whey;
								Along came a spider and sat down beside'er
								And so frightened Little Miss Muffett that she fell over backwards
									and rolled down the back steps and let out a yell
								And broke three ribs in her umberell.
							
						

						

						
							END OF THE DROUGHT

							
								A filtering rain-drop struck the dust
								With dull, resounding thud
								And said, "I'm onto you at last--
								Your name is mud."
							
						

						

						
							THE PESSIMIST

							
								It's awful, oh, it's awful--but what's a feller goin' t' do?
								And how's he goin' t' do it when th' world bu'sts through?
							
						

						

						
							A NEW GRAFT

							
								The organ man's retired with his organ-grinding graft,
								And the Megaphone's reclining in an easy chair abaft;
								While from these freaks polluted
								Has by some means evoluted
								That freakish combination called the "Megaphonograft."
							
						

						

						
							CONSOLATION

							
								'Tis sweet to love, but O! how bitter!
								To love a girl and then not git 'er.
								Although--
								'Tis better to have loved and lost
								Than to have married and be bossed.
							
						
					



					

					
						An Untold Riley Yarn

						Copyright by Farm Life Pub. Co., Published by Courtesy of Farm Life

						
							There's one Jim Whitcomb Riley yarn that's never yit been told
							An' I better give it to you now, afore it gits too old;
							Twuz a crowd of Indynoplus friends that Riley once brought down
							Fer a picnic on th' Fletcher place out here adjoinin' town.
							These city chaps, so Riley said when he writ t' Uncle Cal,
							Was comin' down t' gether nuts; an' each one and his gal
							Was countin' on a splendid time--no ifs ner ans ner buts--
							An' ever'one was figgerin' on a bag o' hick'ry nuts.
							Cal Fletcher liked t' play a joke as well as anyone
							An' saw his chance, with Riley's crowd, t' have a batch o' fun;
							He called his hired man an' boys an' sent 'em sever'l days
							To his hundred-acre Flatwoods farm out east o' here a ways.
							Th' nuts was layin' thick as flies out in them hick'ry woods
							An' Fletcher told his hired han's 'to bring in all they could.
							They searched th' Flatwoods over, scratched among th' leaves an' grass
							An finely got 'em gethered an' brought 'em in at last,
							They hauled 'em in to Fletcher's--near half a wagon load--
							An' Uncle Calvin chuckled as himself an' helpers throwed
							Th' hull blame kit an'b'ilin'--broadcasted, if yuh please--
							Till th' nuts was layin' shoe mouth deep in a grove of simmon trees.
							Fletcher th'owed his ole straw hat an' jist rared back an' laughed
							Till th' hired man an' th' fam'ly thought th' old man gone plumb daft;
							An' then he told 'em--laughin'--th' why of what he'd done,
							Swore 'em all t' silence an' t' wait an' watch th' fun.
							Th' Riley crowd come troopin' in one bright October day,
							An' nothin' seemed t' please 'em but t' pitch in right away
							A-huntin' nuts. So Uncle Calvin, squeezin' back a grin,
							Tuk 'em out an' showed 'em an' told 'em "Jist wade in,"
							Wade in they did an' went t' work with basket, bag an' sack,
							A-grabbin' nuts jist right an' left; each one humped his back
							An' grabbled up th' shagbarks with shouts of joy an' glee
							But never one o' them city chaps tuk time t' see a tree.
							Riley watched 'em quite a spell an' chuckled now an' then,
							While peepin' f'm th' haymow wuz Fletcher's hired men;
							They watched th' thing with eager eyes, a-laughin' up their sleeves
							Th' way them folks was scratchin' 'mongst th' dead persimmon leaves.
							Then Riley beckoned Uncle Cal an' tuk him off one side
							An' whispered to him, laughin', "They's jist one thing that I'd
							Like t' have you tell me 'bout these hick'ry-simmon trees,"
							But Fletcher laughed an' whispered back:"Jist leave 'em on their knees."
						
					



					

					
						Limericks

						
							I sa'ntered out to th' street car track,
							An' an auto bit me jist k'smack;
							"Look out" says he
							As he flew past me.
							'What fer?" sez I; "Air yuh comin' back?"
						

						

						
							TAULT TRAULT

							
								A Michigan man from the Sault
								Went over to Kalamazault
								He drank himself tight,
								Got into a fight
								And the Judge said "It's ten days for yault."
							
						

						

						
							AN OLD TIMER

							
								A young lady who lived in Nantucket,
								Wore a bustle as big as a bucket;
								She cleaned it up fine
								Hung it out on a line
								And a goat came along and he tuck it.
							
						
					






					

					
						More Limericks

						
							RIDE'EM, COWBOY

							
								A native from near Albuquerque
								Went up to Chicago to wuerque;
								He took in the sights
								Shot out some of the lights,
								But the cops brought him up with a juerque.
							
						

						

						
							CHING-A-LINGO

							
								The Chinaman wears a long queue
								And a silk shirt of beautiful hueue;
								Has very strange views
								And wears odd little shiews.
								Now I think he's funny; don't yueue?
							
						
					



					

					
						Squibs

						
							NOT QUITE FRUITLESS

							
								He was married to a peach
								Who soon became the boss,
								And now whene'er he thinks of "peach"
								It's only apple sauce.
							
							--Sullivan Union.
						

						
							
								Experience doth surely teach--
								This "love stuff" he's condemin';
								He thought that he had wed a peach
								But she proved to be a lemon.
							
						

						
							NEW VERSION

							
								London Bridge is falling down
								My fair Lady-O;
								Before the darn thing hits the ground
								You'll hear of it by radio.
							
						

						
							NE PLUS ULTRA

							
								Of all the pesky critters
								That ever chanced to be,
								The peskiest, meanest, bitin'est
								Are the bed bug and the flea.
							
						

						
							A BANKRUPTS CHRISTMAS CARD

							
								The Christmas season always brings
								Good wishes, gifts and lots of things;
								I'd like to send them all to you
								But if truth be spoke
								I'm plumb flat broke
								And all I can say is "Howdy do."
							
						
					



					


					
						Squibs

						
							LINES

							
								To Our Doughboy Statue during a rainy
										season.
							
							
								(Copyrighted.)
							


							
								Our doughty "Doughboy" pauses not
								In his dignified advance,
								But mutters through his chattering teeth:
								"It rains more here than it did in France."
							
						

						
							A REPLY

							
								To Mary Bostwick's querry as to when Leap Year would make its leap.
							

							
								The Leap-Year doesn't plan to leap,
								The Leap-year's not contrary;
								So fret no more, nor vigils keep--
								It's up to you, Miss Mary.
							
						

						
							LATE MARCH

							
								Old Winter still keeps holding on
								With blustry winds and snow;
								And a voice from the groundhog hole
								Murmurs "I told you so."
							
						
					




					

					
						How Old is Santa Claus?

						
							How old are you, dear Santa Claus?
							I'd really like to know;
							My mamma says when she's a girl,
							A long, long time ago,
							You always filled her stocking
							At Christmas every year;
							An' 'gran'ma's too, so you must be
							A hundred now, might' near.
						

						
							Thus wrote a bright eyed little lass
							To Santa Claus one time;
							And Santa told her of his age
							And answered her in rhyme.
						

						
							"My age, dear little friend of mine,
							Is counted not in years;
							My age increases only when
							I see a child in tears.
							At each good deed of boy or girl
							I one day younger grow.
							And thus each week of earthly time
							I lose a year or so.
							"And so, a long as time shall last,
							I'll daily younger grow
							When little girls and little boys
							Act just the best they know;
							But when they're bad or when they cry
							My years climb up a score;
							So you be good end help me live
							Forever evermore."
						
					

					
						Lines

						
							Sent with a Necktie on a Birthday
						

						
							Tankum, lad you're twenty-one
							And haven't yet been kissed:
							Now try to figure, Tankum,
							All the kisses you have missed.
						

						
							So herg's a neck-piece, Tankum,
							"Tie" up to something quick.
							And I'm hoping that our friendship
							May forever, ever, stick.
						
					





					

					
						Golden Wedding Lines

						
							AnniVERSEary
							
								Accompanying gift of gold-plated scissors on a Golden Wedding
										anniversary.
							

							
								This happy day we haste to give
								These "Golden Wedding" shears.
								By "sheer" good fortune you may live
								Another fifty years.
							
						

						

						
							FOLLOW-UPS

							
								A funny girl is Edna Race
								She does not carry a vanity case.
							
							--Sullivan Union.

							
								An odd affair, we're 'here to relate:
								But how does she know her face is on straight?
							
						
					

					
				






				

				
					A Group of Political Parodies

					

					
						The Ravin' OF WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN
							A Nightmare.

						
							Once upon a midnight dreary, Willie Bryan weak and weary,
							Sought his couch in fruitless hope that he would sweetly sleep and snore,
							But he tossed in troubled slumber and dreams came in endless number,
							And he gazed in awe and sadness at his sword above the door;
							At his sword and his commission idly resting 'bove the door,
							--And he feebly, deeply swore--
						

						
							To the people he had spoken, using silver as the token,
							Of the good that he could do them with his little silver mint,
							And he poured forth floods of language, sweeping, tidal waves of language;
							In a cataract of language talked he to them without stint.
							But his talk was not ALL SILVER as it was four years before--
							There was this time something more.
						

						
							He said things about our navy, sailing seas all blue and wavy,
							Claiming lands we had no right to--islands more than he could count:
							Islands to the eastward lying where heathen banners should be flying;
							This he talked and talked and talked of--this, the issue paramount,
							His talk was Anti-Annexation--Porto Rico's cash taxation;--
							Wept some tears for Aguinaldo--tears of pity, nothing more.
						

						
							But he had no words of pity for the vast white-tented city,
							Where the dead sleep in intrenchments that deep sleep of Evermore;
							How the brave blue coats died smiling, while he coward, was beguiling
							Idle moments writing speeches to be heard the country o'er;
							And his new sword hanging listless on a peg above the door--
							Hanging IDLY--nothing more.
						

						
							Oh! that sword and that commission! and his sins of rank omission;
							And his resignation written while his troops were breaking camp!
							Do you wonder that he tumbled in his sleep and deeply grumbled
							At that sword and that commission hanging there above the door
							And his resignation hidden, to all prying eyes forbidden;
							Deep within his trunk 't was laying hid from sight forevermore,
							Double-locked forevermore.
						

						
							As he tosseed in restless slumber mocking dreams in endless number,
							Mocking dreams came by the dozen, aye they came sixteen to one;
							And a ghost-form Jeffersonian, cried in tones deep and stentorian,
							"How about Louisiana bought in eighteen hundred three?
						




						

						
							Then the people all cried: "Take 'er--one and one-half cents an acre?
							And we took 'er, Bryan, took 'er, though my power stretched till it cracked.
							In dreams he gave back annexations to the old back number nations;
							And he sliced off territory till he stood on Plymouth Rock;
							And he wildly gasped for water, saying things he hadn't oughter
							Of that Jeffersonian purchase made a hundred years before--
							And he shook his two fists doubled at that sword above the door--
							Shook his fists and madly swore.
						

						
							But that Nemesis pursued him and away from sweet sleep wooed him
							And he saw a row of dinner pails chuck full for four years more;
							And he cried out in his sadness, "What is hell to all this madness?
							If that Elephant steps on me I am done forevermore!"
							Thus poor Billy Bryan slumbered--ravin' on from twelve till four.
							Simply ravin'--nothing more.
						
					

					
						Fourty Years Ago

						
							Adapted from the Original
						

						
							I've wandered to the village Tom.
							I've sat beneath the tree,
							Upon the Court House "Plaza" Tom.
							That sheltered you and me;
							But few were left to greet me, Tom.
							And the few I chanced to know,
							Said taxes. Tom, are twice as high,
							As forty years ago!
						

						
							The Plaza's grown bald-headed, Tom,
							And where we used to play
							They've built a jail.--the Court House, Tom.
							Is but a step away,--
							They've had the books examined,Tom
							"Six thousand short," by Joe!
							In six short years! now what's the tune
							Since Forty Yearn ago?
						

						
							The old Court House is altered some
							You know we used to go
							Up stairs to pay our taxes; now
							They pay 'em down below.
							But the same old bricks are in the wall,



							

							The bell swings to and fro;
							It's music's just about the same
							As forty years ago.
						

						
							The Spring that bubbled near by, Tom.
							Beneath the locust tree,
							Is gone; they've dug a deep well, Tom,--
							Near where it used to be;
							And stooping down to take a drink.
							Dear Tom, I started so.
							To think how much the water'd changed
							Since forty years ago.
						

						
							And everything has altered, Tom.
							I scarcely know a face
							I saw about the Court House, Tom--
							The "gang" now runs the place.
							The county's Democratic, Tom,
							At least they claim it's so--
							But majorities are whittled down
							Since forty years ago.
						

						
							And the old "Official Organ", Tom,
							That used to print the news,
							Has changed its tactics now and prints,
							The poor, "forlorn bird's" views,
							And the editor's (?) editorials, Tom.
							You'd like to read, I know.
							Although he uses language coined
							Since forty ,years ago.
						

						
							They're holding "kitchen caucuses,"
							When they ought to be at church,
							And the "crowless rooster's" roostin'
							On a stingin' red-hot perch.
							The license law is changed, too Tom,
							A "dog and pony show"
							Now gives out "comps".--It wasn't thus
							Some forty years ago.
						

						
							The old Court House is still red, Tom,
							The outside walls' you know,--
							But the inside, Tom's been ''white- washed" some



							

							Since forty years ago.
							And when our time shall come, dear Tom,
							If we are called below,
							Well meet the "gang" that's skinned 'em, Tom,
							Since forty years ago.
						
					



					
						Enameline A Tale of Whitewash in Sweet
							Owen.


						
							Here stands the Court House primeval--the murmuring tax-payers and voters
							Stand like an adamant wall and cry out, "Investigation!"
							They long for the time to come when its secrets are loosed to the public;
							But still is the work undone, with no symptoms of ever beginning.
						

						
							Here stands the Court House primeval, the Temple of Justice of Owen
							The Court House of brick and of mortar, one laid upon top of the other;
							Here in the midst of the village, surrounded by hitch-rack and shade trees--
							Trees of the days of the seventies, set out in the days of Ham Moffet
							Moffet, the Sheriff of. Owen, Sweet Owen, the State of the Hoosier.
							Here, under the trees in the summer, on the bald-headed lawn, and the settees,
							Lounge the. wiseacres of Owen, who, lounging, swap yarns and tobacco,
							And speak of the days "ante-bellum," the airly days" back in the thirties,
							When our children's grandfathers were youngsters and wore the sore toe and the
								stone bruise;
							Those days when the Court House was builded in the year twenty- five, by the
								masons
							Who worked under Hart, the contractor, chief of the masons and builders.
							They talked of the days when the Court Room was on the ground floor of the
								building,
							And the office rooms reached by a stairway that led to the story above it;
							They speak of the courts and the judges, and men who have been the officials,
							The Recorder, the Auditor, Treasurer, the Sheriff and Board of Commissioners.



							

							They talk of the papers and books--the records locked tight from the public,
							The records of moneys and taxes paid into the funds of the County,
							The records of moneys expended, the whys and the wherefores and so forth;
							And they long for a peep at the records of the doings of bygone officials--
							Officials whose nests have been feathered in some unaccountable manner,
							Officials who clothed in fine linen, and gathered much money about them,
							Who rode in their chariots of gold with their coat of arms richly emblazoned,
							Gilded and streaked with red like the lithograph of a circus.
							But the mystery grows deeper and deeper while officials are still wrapped in
								silence,
							Silence as deep and profound as the empty slippers of dead men.
							They mention the century past--the cycle we've just left behind us.
							They speak of the month of March, bleak March of the year ninteen hundred
							And the appropriation of money--one thousand cold plunks, known as dollars,
							And then they speak of the time when the Council had gathered together,
							When, smokiing their black cigars, they talked of the wish of the people
							And murmured against the thought of spending the tax-payers money,
							Money which they had earned by labor incessant and galling;
							And they argued for and against--spoke pro and con on the question,
							And after much wrangling among them, decided at last on an issue,
							"An investigation of records to be made by an expert accountant".
							Containing also the proviso "not exceeding six years at the furthest"
							So said the Honorable Council in open session assembled;
							And a contract in due form was arranged and an expert accountant named
								Graffis--
							Graffis the friend of the gang, the "Ancient Order of Auditors"--
							Promised to do the work and straightway went hence without signing.
							The contract was thus laid aside with never the name of this Graffis--
							Nowhere upon its clean page is the scratch of his pen or his pencil;
							Gone is he now from our midst--gone without even a whisper--
							Never a lisp of the name of the village whereto he was going;--
							Gone is he now from our midst--gone as the light from a candle
							When caught in a draft through the casement, or snuffed with the fingers at
								bed-time;
							Gone from us now and we call him, while naught but the echoes give answer--
							Echoee that impart to us nothing--but mockingly answer back, "Graffis".


							

							Still is his business undone with no symptoms of ever beginning--
							Thus is the matter enameled-smeared over with coatings of white- wash,
							Covered with costly enamel-Enameline, known to the "ancients"--
							Thus does the matter lie resting--finished before the beginning.
							And so ends Enameline's story--a tale of whitewash in Sweet Owen.
						

						

						
							Still stands the Court House primeval; the murmuring tax-payers and voters
							Long for the time to come when its secrets are loosed to the public;
							But still is the work undone, with no symptoms of ever beginning;
							Thus was Enameline spread o'er the books of the county of Owen.
						
					

					
						hamlet and the Ghost

						In Two Scenes

						Prologue

						Bill Skinner of Dogwalk" was hung by the gang about the year 1884. Since
							then he has, of course, been silent. In the present year-- 1902-- the gang, "forlorn
							and distressed, wet, bedraggled and harassed, driven from pillar to post" (to use
							their own words)--has fallen into the habit of "seein' things at night." Among others
							they think they see "Bill Skinner of Dogwalk."

						
							SCENE I
							
								Cast of Characters

								Hamlet
									G. Reuben G--
								Horatio
									W. W Farewell C--
								Macellus, Bernardo, Guards
									J. Haha C-- and N. Darnit C--
								Ghost
									"Bill Skinner of Dogwalk."
								Lords, Officers, Messengers, Hoodoos, Jonahs, and other attendants.
							

							Scene--Sweet Owen.

							
								Ham.
								
									Bill Skinner! Methinks I see Bill Skinner.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Where at, me Lord?
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									In me mind's eye, Horatio.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									I saw him once; I think in '84.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									He was a stemwinder, take  him for all in all.
										I shall not look upon his like again.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Me Lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Saw? Who?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Me lord, that man, Bill Skinner.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Bill Skinner!
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Aye, true, me lord.
									Hold you your 'taters for while;
									Keep on your shirt, likewise
									Your pantaloons--your shoes and socks till I
									Into your ear do put a bug;
									Upon the witness of these two gazaboes
									I will impart to you a tale
									Of ghostly visitation.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Shades of Levi! let me hear.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Two nights together had these fellows here,
									Marcellus and Bernardo on their way
									To kitchen caucus at the rendezvous
									Been thus encountered; a figure like Bill Skinner.
									Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe
									Appears before them, and with solem march
									Goes slow and stately by them; thrice he walked
									By their oppress'd and fear surprised eyes,
									Within a truncheon's length; while they distilled
									Almost to jelly with the act of fear
									Their knees a-quiver, hearts a- thump like drums
									Stand dumb and speak not to him.
									This to me
									In dreadful secrecy impart they did
									And I with them the third night kept the watch
									Where, as they had delivered, both in time,
									Form of the thing, each word made true and good,



									

									The apparition comes; the same old geezer
									That we hung in '84--I knew Bill Skinner--
									This spook, me lord, I swear was Bill's "dead ringer."
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									But where was this?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Me lord, upon the thoroughfare, as we
									Were kitchen caucus bound, ferninst
									The alley east of Buck and Stringtown line.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Did you not speak to it?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Me lord, I did.
									But answer made it none--it was as silent
									As the grave from whence it came --aye, lord,
									As silent as the statute books on complimentary tickets;--
									And yet me thought that once
									It lifted up its head and did address
									Itself to motion as it would speak;
									But even then the "forlorn bird" did flit
									Athwart the path; the crowless rooster gaped
									And at the sight it slunk in haste away
									And vanished from our sight
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									You've got me guesssing.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									As I do live, me honored lord,
									I swear by Gentry's comps, 'tis true,
									And we did think it stood us much in hand
									To rustle thence and tell the tale to you.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Indeed, indeed sirs, but this troubles me;
									Go you tonight again to kitchen caucus?
								
							
							
								Mar. & Ber.
								
									Aye lord, you betcher neck.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Armed, say you?
								
							



							

							
								Mar.
								
									Armed, me lord. As has been said,
									Armed cap-a-pe, at point exactly;
									The pen ferninst the ear--the same
									Think-cap pushed back athwart his brow
									So that we saw his face; his brows were knit as if in thought--
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									What, looked he frowningly?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Pale, or red?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Nay, very pale.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									And fixed his eyes upon you?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Most constantly, and honored lord,
									Those piercing eyes did burn our very souls,
									Made each particular hair to stand on end
									Like quills upon the fretful porcupine,
									The while the cold and slimy lizards of despair
									Did frolic up our spines.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									I would I had been there.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									It would have skeered your liver white,
									Me lord, till chalk would make
									A dark complected mark thereon.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Very like, very like. Stayed it long?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									While one with moderate haste might count
									The gang in Precinct One.
								
							
							
								Mar. & Ber.
								
									Longer, longer. It stayed at least a minute.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Not when I saw it.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									His beard was grizzled--no?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									It was as I had seen it in his life,
									A sable, silvered, or a grizzled gray.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									I'll mosey down that way to night.
									Perchance 'twill walk again.



									

									If it assume Bill Skinner's form
									I'l1 speak to it though hell itself should gape
									And bid me hold me peace. I pray you all
									If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight
									Keep mum as oysters. And if again
									The sucker haunts the night we'll blow his shape
									So full of holes that he will leak
									As freely as a sieve. Now fly your kites.
								
								(Exuent all but Hamlet)
								
									Bill Skinner's spirt in arms! all is not well!
									Something is rotten in Sweet Owen
									And -----'s to pay; foul deeds will rise.
									Though all the earth o'erwhelm them to men's eyes.
								
							
						

						

						
							Scene II
							
								Hamlet, G. Reuben 'G--
								Horatio, W. Farewell C----
								Marcellus, J. Haha C----.
								Ghost, William Skinner, of Dogwalk.
								King, the Gang.
							

							Scene--The Thoroughfare.

							Enter Ham. Hor. and Mar.

							
								Ham.
								
									The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Methinks 'twill frost the night.
								
							
							
								Mar.
								
									Not so, me lord, the while the clouds scoot thus athwart the moon's pale
										face.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									What hour now?
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Me lord, it lacks of twelve.
								
							
							
								Mar.
								
									Nay; didst not hear the gang's chronometer.
									Ferninst the Temple, as we left.
									Peal forth the hour thirteen?
								
							



							

							
								Hor.
								
									'Tis time to get it fixed, forsooth.
								

								(Flourish of tin horns, sacbuts and bass drum sticks within. Also a cannon
									shot.)

								
									What does this mean, me lord?
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									King Gang doth wake tonight and takes his rouse.
									Keeps wassail, drinks his health;
									And as he drinks his draughts of Pabst and Schlitz.
									The kettle drum and trumpet thus bray out
									The triumph of his pledge.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Is it a custom?
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Aye, marry, is't;
									But to my mind--it is a custom
									To be improved forsooth, as 'twas in Ripley.
									By mere addition of a slab of fish
									That fits the hand. They do it so
									In Osgood. But good me lord, it is a custom
									More honored in the breach than the observance.
									This heavy headed revel east and west
									But causes talk; it stirs up wrath;
									The yoke is galling to the plebians
									And they in mighty voice do seek
									Investigation. They clepe us Robbers
									And with swinish phrase soil our addition.
								
							
							
								Hor.
								
									Look, me lord it comes.
								
							

							Enter Ghost

							
								Ham.
								
									Shades of Gentry's dogs, defend us!
									Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd
									Bring with the airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
									Thou comest in such questionable shape



									

									That I will speak to thee; I'll call thee Skinner--
									Bill Skinner--royal Bill--O answer me!
								
								
									Let me not bust in ignorance; but tell
									Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
									Have burst their cerements; why thy sepulchre--
									Thy political tomb to which we once consigned thee--
									Has oped its ponderous and marble jaws
									To cast thee up again? Art thou a Jonah
									To the grave as was Jonah to the whale?
									Canst not thou rest in peace
									Within the bowels of Earth? Or did they
									Heave and cough as Jonah's whale.
									And spit thee up through Pelee's smoking-crest?
								
								
									What may this mean, that thou--O Bill--
									Again with think-cap on, and fountain pen,
									Do scoot athwart the moon's pale beams
									As once thou did in life? and we fools of nature
									Do horribly shake our knees in fear and bump
									The one against the other? Say, why is this?
									Wherefore? What shall we do?
									Tell us
									The whichness and the whatness of the why.
								
							

							(Ghost beckons Hamlet)

							
								Hor.
								
									It beckons you to follow it
									As if it some impartment did desire
									To you alone. But do not go.
								
							



							

							
								Mar.
								
									By no means! No!
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									It will not speak: then will I follow it.
									For what should be the fear?
									I do not set my chances at a pin's fee;--
									It waves me still! Go on--
									I'll follow thee--Hold off your hands--
									Unhand me, fellows--By jing
									I'll make a ghost of him that hangs
									Ferninst the tail of me coat.
								
							

							(Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet)

							
								Hor.
								
									Have after. To what end will this come?
								
							
							
								Mar.
								
									I'faith I know me not: let's follow him.
								
							
							(Scene-In the rear of the woodshed corner North st. and Cholera Ave.)

							(Enter Ghost and Hamlet).
							
								Ham.
								
									Where are you going at? By jing, I'll go no furder.
								
							
							
								Ghost.
								
									Mine hour is almost come When I must get me hence.
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Speak-speak.
								
							
							
								Ghost.
								
									I am Bill Skinner's spirit--
								
							
							
								Ham.
								
									Oh, say not so.
								
							
							
								Ghost.
								
									I am Bill Skinner's spirit.
									The which King Gang did hang in '84.
									You mentioned me three weeks agone
									In issue of thy Megaphone. Thus am I
									Conjured up. I could a tale unfold
									Of doings of King Gang, whose lightest word
									Would harrow up thy soul--freeze thy young blood.
									Make thy two eyes like stars start from their spheres--
									"Bug out," as 'twere, beyant your face--




									

									Make thy knotted and doube-twisted locks to part
									And each particular hair to stand on end
									A la mode le Pompadour.
									Now, Hamlet, hear!
									Thy time has come. Pull back the curtain
									Of the future state and there emblazoned
									Thou wilt read the burning words
									"Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin."
									Which, translated means
									"Thou hast been weighed and found wanting--
									Thy finish is at hand."
									If thou wouldst "finish" well
									Go not to bed; keep on thy boots--
									Die game, me lord, and have
									Thy boots on when thou fall.
									The doings of King Gang, me lord,
									Would make the angels weep.
									And all their tears, if dropped up- on the page,
									Could not blot out the dirt
									And leave it white again.
									Thou, in the columns of thy Megaphone,
									Did conjure me by words and thots
									Of slur and ridicule--beware thou then,
									Of how thou conjure me again.
									For should I rise me up
									From out the marble sepulchre
									Thou then shall rue the day
									That saw thee come to Owen.
									'Twere better far that thou hadst stayed
									In Ripley to the south where they do hang
									The Levites by the fives
									Than that thou shouldst have come
									To Owen, where they hang in effigy.
								
								
									Remember me--young man--remember me,




									

									Remember me--that I was thick with Gang,
									I knew his secrets well in '84,
									Perchance I know them now
									And if again thou callest me,
									Thy name is Mud.
									Hamlet, farewell. Remember me,
									Forget me not.
								
							

							(Exit Ghost)

							
								Ham.
								
									Hold, hold, me heart, and you.
									My sinews, grow not instant old
									But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
									Ye gods--I think I will while memory holds her seat
									In this distracted globe. O gang!
									King Gang!
									My note-book--meet it is I set it down
									That one may smile and smile and be a villain still--
									At least I'm sure it may be so in Owen.
								
							
							Quick Curtain
						
					



					

					
						Griffin's Bird

						G. R. Griffin, editor of the Democrat, stated in one of his issues that the G. O. P.
							convention was to be postponed and likely never would be held. Mr. Griffin stated that
							he got a lot of laughs out of . the reply that followed this announcement. The parody
							on "Poe's Raven" follows:

						A Parody.

						
							Once upon a storm day dreary, Griffin sat there weak and weary
							Musing o'er the leery prospects that his party saw before;
							As he sat there, nodding, napping, suddenly there came a tapping
							As of someone gently rapping, rapping at the sanctum door;
							"Wonder who it is," said Griffin, and his fingers 'gan to stiffen
							As he thought of some delinquent with his back pay at the door.
						

						
							Then he ambled to the portal thinking he would find some mortal
							Waiting with the "jingling needful" that was due in days of yore;
							But instead he saw the hallway--just the bare and vacant hallway--
							And he rubbered down the stairway till his rubber neck was sore;
							And he pondered and he wondered while outside it rained and thundered,
							And the lightning flashed and sizzled as he stood there at the door.
						

						
							"Tis as idle, mocking fancy--'tis a sort of necromancy
							Juggling my imagination as it often has before,"--
							As he turned back to his writing, on the window-ledge alighting;
							Griffin saw a bird bedraggled, wet and weary, sick and sore--
							Saw a bird with feathers ruffled and its fragile form all muffled
							In a coat of drooping plumage;--and it "tap-tapped" as before
						

						
							Then did Griffin ope' the shutter and with hurry, fuss and flutter
							Through the window flew the birdlet weak and wounded, sick and sore;
							Not the least obeisance made he, not a moment stopped or stayed he
							But flew straight to Billy Bryan hanging near the sanctum door--
							To the picture of poor Bryan hanging,near the sanctum door.
							Perched upon the late lamented--shrieked out, "Griffin, nevermore!"
						

						
							Stunned was Griffin--stunned to dumbness--with a feeling 'kin to bumness,
							And he marvelled at the aspect of this bird so near the door,
							And his footsteps pottered, pottered, as around the room he tottered
							Thinking that, b'gosh, he had 'em as he'd never had before.
							"Sure it must portend disaster," and his thought ran fast and faster




							

							As he gazed in awe and wonder at the bird so near the door.
						

						
							Then the bird forlorn and battered shook its feathers torn an tattered
							Griffin's bird so "scared and weakened", opened up to say some more;
							And the words that it had spoken came again in accents broken--
							In a wildly-weird crescendo, shrieking, "Griffin nevermore!"
							Cried out, "Griffin, please make mention that the G.O.P. convention
							Nevermore'll he held in Owen as it.used to heretofore.
							-----Never, never, nevermore!"
						

						
							Then rushed Griffin to the cases, pushed the workmen from their places,
							Grabbed a stick and set up "blarney" as he never set before.
							And his face was cracked with smiling as he went on there compiling
							What the little bird had told him as it sat so near the door:!
							What the weary bird had spoken in its accents weak and broken--
							What the "forlorn bird" had told him as it sat beside the door.
						

						
							And the news the bird had brought him, proved a haunting ghost that sought
								him--
							Sought him even in his slumbers--woke him up with "Nevermore!"
							Proved a Nemesis:--pursued him: and away from sweet sleep wooed him
							As the story books say Furies did in jolly days of yore;
							And in nightmares bird-beaks bit him;--boomerangs flew back and hit him,
							And in dreams a "crowless" rooster with the "gaps" shrieked, "Nevermore!"
						
					



					

					
						All Chaw hay

						
							Steve S---- upon a summer's day
							Empaneled a jury, so they say--
							A "juryless jury" by the way--
							And charged five dollars; that's too much pay
							For empaneling juries any day.
							But howsomever, anyway
							Steve swore the jury in that day
							The while the taxpayers raked the hay.
							Trying to "rake up" money to pay
							Their taxes which, I've heard folks say,
							Were 'highern' they should be anyway;
							But you know 'what Shakespeare used to say,
							That "Every dog will have his day,"
							So kind o' sort o' jist don't say
							Nuthin' much but "all chaw hay,"
							On votin' day.
						
					
				





				

				
					Thank You

					
						You've read these verses, grave and funny,
						Some are gloomy, some are sunny;
						Don't loan the book to any other;
						Tell'em "Buy one, buy one, brother,"
						For you know the starving author needs the money.
					






					



				
			
		

		
			
				THE OWEN LEADER PRINT SHOP
				SPENCER, INDIANA
			
		
	
