
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Beard, Reed, 1862-. The battle of Tippecanoe. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8220

	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		




			

			

				
					
						Yours Truly Reed Beard.
					
				


				[I was born in Iowa, August 31, 1862, and in infancy became totally blind. During the
					same year my parents removed to Indiana. At the age of ten, I entered the Indiana
					Institute for the Education of the Blind, from which I graduated eight years later. To
					that institution I owe what success I have achieved.--R. B.]

			
			

			
				
					THE
						BATTLE OF
						TIPPECANOE

					HISTORICAL SKETCHES
						OF THEFAMOUS FIELD UPON WHICH GENERAL WILLIAM HENRYHARRISON WON
							RENOWN THAT AIDED HIM IN REACHING THE PRESIDENCY

					LIVES OF THE PROPHET AND TECUMSEH
						WITH MANY INTERESTING INCIDENTSOF THEIR RISE AND
						OVERTHROW.


					THE CAMPAIGN OF 1888
						AND ELECTION OFGENERAL BENJAMIN HARRISON>
				
				
					BY
					
					REED BEARD
					AUTHOR OF "BRIEF BIOGRAPHIES OF AMERICAN PRESIDENTS"
				

				

				PRICE 50 CENTS

				

				

					CHICAGO
					DONOHUE & HENNEBERRY
						PRINTERS AND BINDERS


					1889

				
			


			

			
			
				Entered according to Act of Congress, in the Year 1889, by REED
					BEARD in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
				
			

			

			
				PREFACE

				Among the earthly spots that mark the rise or fall of some distinguished hero, but few
					are more memorable than the Battle Ground. The unpretentious little village which bears
					its name, should it exist until the close of history, can add nothing to the perpetuity
					already vouchsafed the memory of events that transpired there long ago.
				Well nigh a century has passed since the battle of Tippecanoe was fought. It wrought
					immediate and significant changes in the conditions of races and governments for the
					period that followed, and those results have found favor and appreciation in the public
					mind. Many tributes have been paid the brave men who fell on that field, and the American
					people have recognized the renown won by the heroic leader in that fierce fight. He was
					taken from successful contests on the field of battle and elevated to the chief office
					within the gift of man. Affairs of government in which his life performed a potent part,
					fill many chapters of our Country's history.
				Nor does the close of his career mark the end of political events that have gathered
					impulse and power, or grew in sentiment so generously supplied from the fountain of
					cherished annals surrounding the name of Tippecanoe.
				The year but recently closed renewed and revived the history of that field. Another
					president will soon preside over the destinies of this Republic, whose warmest personal
					and party friends refer to the Hero of Tippecanoe with reverence and pride.
				REED BEARD

				LAFAYETTE, IND., February 1, 1889.

			
			

			
				CONTENTS
				

					CHAPTER I - The Prophet13
					
					CHAPTER II - Tecumseh21
					
					CHAPTER III - The Confederacy25
					
					CHAPTER IV - The March to Prophet's Town47
						
					
					CHAPTER V - The Battle59
					
					CHAPTER VI - Incidents of the Battle69
					
					CHAPTER VII - Effect of the Battle75
					
					CHAPTER VIII - The Battlefield85
					
					CHAPTER IX - Tippecanoe in Politics89
					
					CHAPTER X - The Campaign of 188897
					
				
			

			

			
				ILLUSTRATIONS
				

					PORTRAIT OF AUTHORFrontispiece
					
					WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON12
					
					THE PROPHET16
					
					TECUMSEH20
					
					PRESENT SITE OF PROPHET'S TOWN30
					
					BURNETT'S CREEK AND BATTLE GROUND, FROM THE WEST38
					
					PLAN OF THE BATTLE GROUND58
					
					PROPHET'S ROCK AND RATTLE-SNAKE CAVE68
					
					MEANDERING RUN, BY WHICH HARRISON MARCHED OUT74
					
					THE BATTLE GROUND, FROM THE NORTHWEST86
					
					A BATTLE-SCARRED OAK92
					
					BENJAMIN HARRISON99
					
				
			

			
			


			
				To General Benjamin Harrison President-elect of the United
					States

				This Volume Is Respectfully Dedicated
				by the
				Author

			

			

			
			
				
					W. H. Harrison
				
			
			
			
		
		
			

			
				The Battle of Tippecanoe.

				

				
					CHAPTER I.
					The Prophet.
					
						THE year 1805 is memorable in the annals of Indian warfare as the one
						in which that notorious impostor, The Prophet, and his brother Tecumseh, began the
						formation of their famous confederacy. These brothers were of the Shawnee tribe, which
						came from Georgia and located in Ohio. The Prophet was born about the year 1771, near
						Piqua, Ohio, and in early life was known by the name of Laulawasikaw, or Loud Voice. In
						history he is known by various names or forms of the same name, such as Olliwachica,
						Tenskwatawa and Pensquatawa. In childhood The Prophet is reported as having displayed no
						evidence of superior mental endowment. It was not until 1805, after the death of the
						aged prophet of the Shawnees (Penegashega, or The Change of Feathers) that he laid claim
						to supernatural power. His doctrines were first expounded in November of that year to an
						assembly of Indians on the Auglaize river, Ohio. The meeting was composed of
						representatives of the Senecas, Wyandottes, Ottawas and Shawnees.
					In the religion taught by The Prophet were found many virtues, gained for the most part
						by contact with white travelers, and adulterated with Indian superstition.  He insisted upon temperance, preaching total abstinence from
						intoxicants. He taught reverence for old age and sympathy for the weak and infirm. He
						condemned the intermarriage of different races and believed that the Indians should
						adhere to their own customs of living, especially in dress. The weak and superstitious
						character of a great majority of Indian minds made it possible for The Prophet to exert
						a great influence in his own and many kindred tribes by means of his religious
						pretensions. He claimed his will to be supreme, and whoever controverted it endangered
						themselves. Many lives were thus sacrificed. The power of the brothers in their own
						tribe was opposed by the venerable chief, Black Hoof, who throughout his life had
						frequently observed the folly of Indians going to war with white men. This chief had
						been present at Braddock's defeat, 1755, in the old French and Indian War, and had
						learned many lessons in his long life of eventful experience. He died in 1813, having
						reached the remarkable age of 110 years.
					Throughout the year 1806 The Prophet continued his residence at Greenville, Ohio, and
						in 1807, with Tecumseh, gathered several hundred of his followers there, engaging in the
						practice of superstitious rites. This large body of Indians had the effect to alarm the
						white settlers of that neighborhood; and as the Indians were occupying lands ceded by
						them to the United States government in 1795, the governor of Ohio sent commissioners to
						inquire their reasons for so doing and request them to quit the place. To these agents
						the Indians replied that they were there in obedience to the command of the Great
						Spirit.
					Toward the close of the year 1807, The Prophet extended his religion to the Chippewa
						Indians of the upper peninsula of Michigan, a tribe made famous by  Longfellow in his poem entitled "Hiawatha." The formalities of his doctrine
						were observed with zeal for a time by these Indians, but were subsequently
						abandoned.
					Proselytes from many tribes continued to visit The Prophet at Greenville, Ohio, and his
						teachings were received with much favor. To overthrow the false claims of The Prophet
						and disestablish the supremacy he had attained over his followers, Gen. William Henry
						Harrison sent the following letter to these Indians, urging them to test the power of
						the great pretender and thus escape the imposture and circumvention of his
						leadership:
					
						"My children: My heart is filled with grief and my eyes are dissolved in tears at the
							news which has reached me. You have been celebrated for your wisdom above all the
							tribes of the red people who inhabit this great island. Your fame as warriors has
							extended to the remotest nations, and the wisdom of your chiefs has gained you the
							appellation of grandfathers from all the neighboring tribes. From what cause, then,
							does it proceed that you have departed from the wise counsel of your fathers, and
							covered yourselves with guilt? My children, tread back the steps you have taken, and
							endeavor to regain the straight road you have abandoned. The dark, crooked and thorny
							one which you are now pursuing will certainly lead to endless woe and misery. But who
							is this pretended prophet who dares to speak in the name of the great Creator? Examine
							him. Is he more wise and virtuous than you are yourselves, that he should be selected
							to convey to you the orders of your God? Demand of him some proof at least of his
							being the messenger of the Deity. If God has really employed him, He has doubtless
							authorized him to perform miracles that he may be known and received as a prophet. If
							he is really a prophet, ask him to cause the sun to stand still, or the moon to alter
							its courses, 
							
								THE PROPHET.
							
							 the river to cease to flow or the dead to rise from
							their graves. If he does these things you may believe that he is sent from God. He
							tells you that the Great Spirit commands you to punish with death those who deal in
							magic, and that he is authorized to point them out. Wretched delusion! Is, then, the
							Master of Life compelled to employ mortal man to punish those who offend Him? Has He
							not the thunder and the power of nature at His command? And could not He sweep away
							from the earth the whole nation at one motion of His arm? My children, do not believe
							that the great and good Creator has directed you to destroy your own flesh, and do not
							doubt that if you pursue this abominable wickedness, His vengeance will overtake you
							and crush you.
						"The above is addressed to you in the name of the Seventeen Fires. I now speak to you
							from myself, as a friend who wishes you nothing more sincerely than to see you
							prosperous and happy. Clear your eyes, I beseech you, from the mist which surrounds
							them. No longer be imposed upon by the arts of an impostor. Drive him from your town
							and let peace and harmony prevail amongst you. Let your poor old men and women sleep
							in quietness, and banish from their minds the dreadful idea of being burnt alive by
							their own friends and countrymen. I charge you to stop your bloody career, and if you
							value the friendship of your great father, the president, if you wish to preserve the
							good opinion of the Seventeen Fires, let me hear by the return of the bearer that you
							are determined to follow my advice."
					
					By "Seventeen Fires," the Indians meant the seventeen States (or council fires, in the
						Indian method of speaking) which composed the Union at that time.
					President Jefferson afterward wrote to President Adams the following concerning The
						Prophet:
					
					
						"The Wabash Prophet is more rogue than fool, if to be a rogue is not the greatest of
							all follies. He arose to notice while I was in the administration, and became, of
							course, a proper subject for me. The inquiry was made with diligence. His declared
							object was the reformation of red brethren, and their return to their pristine manners
							of living. He pretended to be in constant communication with the Good Spirit; that he
							was instructed by Him to make known to the Indians that they were created distinct
							from the whites, of different natures, for different purposes, and placed under
							different circumstances adapted to their nature and destinies; that they must return
							from all the ways of the whites to the habits and opinions of their forefathers; that
							they must not eat the flesh of hogs, of bullocks, of sheep, etc., the deer and the
							buffalo having been created for their food; they must not make bread of wheat, but of
							Indian corn; they must not wear linen nor woolen, but must dress like their fathers,
							in the skins and furs of animals; they must not drink, and I do not know whether he
							extended his inhibition to the use of the gun and gunpowder, in favor of the bow and
							arrow. I concluded from all this that he was a visionary, enveloped in their
							antiquities, and vainly endeavoring to lead back his brethren to the fancied
							beatitudes of their golden age. I thought there was little danger of his making many
							proselytes from the habits and comforts they had learned from the whites, to the
							hardships and privations of savageism, and no great harm if he did. But his followers
							increased until the British thought him worth corrupting and found him corruptible. I
							suppose his views were then changed; but his proceedings in consequence of them were
							after I left the administration, and are, therefore, 
							unknown to me; nor have I been informed what were the particular acts on his part
							which produced an actual commencement of hostilities on ours. I have no doubt,
							however, that the subsequent proceedings are but a chapter apart, like that of Henry
							and Lord Liverpool in the book of the Kings of England."
					
				

				

				

					
						TECUMSEH.
					

					

					CHAPTER II.
					Tecumseh.

					
						TECUMSEH was born on Mad river, in Clark county, Ohio, 1768. He was
						the fourth of a family of seven children, consisting of six sons and one daughter. His
						father, Puckeshinwau, a chief of remarkable ability, lost his life in the battle of
						Kanawha, 1774. His mother, Methoataske, was also an Indian of exceptional mental power.
						His father was of the Kiscopoke, and his mother of the Turtle tribe of the Shawnee
						nation, and he, therefore, a full-blooded Indian. The education of Tecumseh devolved
						upon an elder brother, who sought to store his mind with a great love for the truth and
						contempt for wrong. He excelled all his fellows in the use of the bow and arrow, and in
						many ways exerted a great influence over the youth of his tribe.
					The first warlike movement in which Tecumseh participated was about the year 1783. It
						was an attack made upon some flatboats in the Ohio river, near Limestone. All the
						boatmen were killed except one, who was taken prisoner and burned to death. This
						terrible scene of human destruction so impressed Tecumseh's mind with the cruelty of
						this method of Indian warfare that he resolved never to burn a prisoner. It is believed
						that he always kept that resolution inviolate. While yet a young man, Tecumseh spent two
						years among the Cherokee nations of the South, returning home in 1790, shortly after the
						defeat of Harmar's expedition. From that time until  the
						treaty of Greenville, 1795, he participated in many skirmishes with the whites,
						displaying remarkable coolness and good judgment in the command of his men. He led the
						Shawnee Indians in the battle near the rapids of the Maumee, August, 1794. Though the
						Indian forces were disastrously defeated by General Wayne in this engagement, Tecumseh's
						followers fought with great valor. It was in this fight that General Harrison and
						Tecumseh first met in battle. The valor and bravery displayed then by these heroes of
						the battlefield was indicative of their future military renown. Tecumseh refused to
						attend the meeting of chiefs who negotiated the treaty of Greenville, August 3, 1795,
						and always opposed the enforcement of its provisions.
					In the spring of 1797, Tecumseh changed his abode from Urbana and Piqua to the
						headquarters of White Water river. The following year he accepted an invitation to join
						the Delawares, who resided along the White river in Indiana.
					In 1805 Tecumseh and his followers joined some fragments of their tribe near the source
						of the Auglaize, Ohio. At a council in Greenville, held in 1807, Tecumseh expressed
						great dissatisfaction with the treaty of 1795.
					In the spring of 1808, the Kickapoos and Pottawatomies invited Tecumseh and The Prophet
						to locate in their country at the junction of the Tippecanoe and Wabash rivers. This
						invitation they accepted, and the Indians journeyed thither and built the town of
						Tippecanoe, commonly known as Prophet's Town. This place was of great importance, it
						being the abiding place of The Prophet and headquarters of the confederacy he and
						Tecumseh strove to create. About this time Tecumseh's plan of forming a confederacy of
						the tribes of the Northwest, and attacking the white settlers, began to be apparent.  The idea of a confederation of the Indian tribes in a vain
						attempt to check the progressive strides of civilization to the west was not original
						with Tecumseh. It had been nurtured as the favorite hope of Pontiac, Little Turtle and
						other leading spirits of the Indian race. Their object was the accomplishment of one
						purpose--to stay the advance and spread of white settlements. Tecumseh's plans were
						far-reaching. He sought to build a vast Indian empire in the wilderness, with himself at
						its head. The Prophet and his superstitious religion were used as tools by Tecumseh.
						Although The Prophet appeared for some time the greater, his popularity was made to
						serve the ambitious political purposes of his intellectual and sagacious brother, who
						promulgated a new political doctrine among the Indians. Tecumseh insisted that the
						Indians were one people, and claimed that no tribe could, without consent of others,
						make a valid transfer of lands. He journeyed from tribe to tribe for several years,
						laboring with Indians of all sections to secure their cooperation in his great work.
					Tecumseh was daring and far-seeing--a sagacious and able orator, a remarkable military
						chief and a successful negotiator. He was an enthusiastic leader and very productive of
						expedient. There was an instinct of hatred for the white man in his heart, which he
						nurtured and cultivated. He had sworn eternal vengeance against the white race.
						Particularly qualified in that sort of tact which distinguishes the artful politician,
						he appealed with great suavity and success to the people, referred artfully to topics
						which awakened the spirit of vanity and pride and a desire for plunder. Although some of
						the more conservative chiefs, through policy, were reluctant to join him, and many of
						the old men objected to engaging in a contest that would stop their annuities and awaken
						the  revenge of the United States, the young warriors
						eagerly listened to his schemes and were desirous of joining his confederacy. The
						thoughtless, the daring and the intemperate elements of the native towns rallied in
						support of his plans.
					Although artful, revengeful and full of cunning, Tecumseh possessed many noble traits.
						The Prophet had but little to commend him. He was crafty, haughty and unscrupulous. He
						was lazy and licentious, and under a variety of excuses extorted his maintenance from
						the Indians. A combination of circumstances gave him an ascendancy over the native
						tribes altogether disproportionate to his ability. He was an abler orator than Tecumseh,
						and it is said was the most graceful of all Indians, but he never spoke while in council
						with Tecumseh, so great was the sway Tecumseh held over him. The idea of ruling the
						Indians by a supposed mediator between them and God, in all probability had its origin
						in Tecumseh's fertile mind.
				
				

				
					CHAPTER III.
					The Confederacy.

					
						AFTER the arrival of the brothers at their new home on the Wabash,
						Governor Harrison sent a letter to the Indians, which was read in the presence of The
						Prophet. He said: 
							"My children, this business must be stopped; I will no longer suffer it. You have
								called a number of men from the most distant tribes to listen to a fool who speaks
								not the words of the Great Spirit, but of the devil and the British agents. My
								children, your conduct has much alarmed the white settlers near you. They desire
								that you shall send away those people. If they wish to have that impostor with them
								they can can carry him along with them. Let him go to the lakes, he can hear the
								British more distinctly."
						
					
					In August, 1808, The Prophet visited Governor Harrison at Vincennes, where he remained
						a considerable length of time, his object being to converse with Harrison. In the course
						of these interviews The Prophet impressed the governor that he was honest in his
						intentions, but ere long the general came to regard him again as crafty, cunning and
						unreliable. He came to the conclusion that The Prophet and Tecumseh were plotting
						against the United States government, and in the event of a war with England they would
						exert their influence toward forming an alliance of the Indians.
					In one of his interviews The Prophet spoke to Governor Harrison as follows: 
						
							"It is three years since I first began that system of religion I now practice. The
								white people and some of the Indians were against me, but I had no other intention
								but to introduce among the Indians those good principles of religion which the white
								people profess. I was spoken of badly by the white people, who reproached me with
								misleading the Indians, but I defy them to say that I did anything amiss.
							"Father, I was told you intended to hang me. When I heard this I intended to
								remember it and tell my father when I went to see him, and relate to him the
								truth.
							"I heard when I settled on the Wabash, that my father, the governor, had declared
								that all the land between Vincennes and Fort Wayne was the property of the Seventeen
								Fires. I heard also that you wanted to know, my father, whether I was God or man;
								and that you said if I was the former I should not steal horses. I heard this from
								Mr. Wells, but I believed it originated with himself.
							"The Great Spirit told me to tell the Indians that He had made them, and made the
								world--that He had placed them on it to do good and not evil.
							"I told all of the redskins that the way they were in was not good, and they should
								abandon it.
							"That we ought to consider ourselves as one man, but we ought to live agreeably to
								our several customs, the red people after their mode and the white people after
								theirs; particularly that they should not drink whisky; that it was not made for
								them, but for the white people who knew how to use it, and that it is the cause of
								all the mischief the Indians suffer, and that they must listen to Him, as it was He
								that made us. Determine to listen to nothing that is bad, do not take up the
								tomahawk should it be offered by the British or by the Long Knives; do not meddle
								with anything that does not belong to you, but  mind
								your own business and cultivate the ground, that your women and children may have
								enough to live on.
							"I now inform you that it is our intention to live in peace with our father and his
								people forever.
							"My father, I have informed you what we mean to do, and I call the Great Spirit to
								witness the truth of my declaration. The religion which I have established for the
								last three years has been attended by all the different tribes of the Indians in
								this part of the world. Those Indians were once different people, they are now but
								one; they are all determined to practice what I have communicated to them, that has
								come immediately from the Great Spirit through me.
							"Brothers, I speak to you as a warrior. You are one. But let us lay aside this
								character and attend to the care of our children, that they may live in comfort and
								peace. We desire that you will join us for the preservation of both red and white
								people. Formerly, when we lived in ignorance, we were foolish; but now, since we
								listen to the voice of the Great Spirit, we are happy.
							"I have listened to what you have said to us. You have promised to assist us. I now
								request you, in behalf of all the red people, to use your exertion to prevent the
								sale of liquor to us. We are all pleased to hear you say that you will endeavor to
								promote our happiness. We give you every assurance that we will follow the dictates
								of the Great Spirit.
							"We are well pleased with the attention you have shown us, also with the good
								intentions of our father, the president. If you give us a few articles, such as
								needles, flints, hoes, powder, etc., we will take the animals that afford us meat
								with powder and ball."
						
					
					The position of Governor Harrison was one of great responsibility. He was charged with
						the protection of the  pioneer settlers. The
						administrations of Presidents Adams, Jefferson and Madison had instructed him to use
						conciliatory means, and avoid, if possible, a recourse to arms. At many times, when the
						whites were nominally at peace with the tribes, some lawless Indians would, contrary to
						the wishes of the great majority of their people, invade the settlements, murder or
						plunder the inhabitants, and burn their buildings. These depredations led to retaliation
						from the whites, who were frequently in the wrong. Besides these difficulties, British
						emissaries were constantly at work for several years prior to the War of 1812, in
						anticipation of that struggle, creating an ill feeling among them toward the United
						States. Such was the speech of Colonel McKee in 1804. "My children," said he, "it is
						true that the Americans do not wish you to drink any spirituous liquors, and therefore
						have told their traders that they should not carry any liquor into your country, but, my
						children, they have no right to say that one of your father's traders (that is, the
						British traders) should carry no liquor among his children. My children, your father,
						King George, loves his red children, and wishes his red children supplied with
						everything they want. He is not like the Americans, who are continually blinding your
						eyes, and stopping your ears with good words, that taste sweet as sugar, and getting all
						your lands from you."
					On a similar occasion, in 1805, he again said to them: 
							"My children, there is a powerful enemy of yours to the east, now on his feet, and
								looks mad at you, therefore you must be on your guard; keep your weapons of war in
								your hands, and have a lookout for him."
						
					
					In 1809 Governor Harrison negotiated a treaty with the Delaware, Miami and Pottawatomie
						Indians by which a tract of land extending on each side of the Wabash to a  point sixty miles north of Vincennes was sold to the
						Government. Tecumseh was absent when this treaty was made. The Prophet gave no
						opposition. When Tecumseh returned home he affected great dissatisfaction with the sale,
						and threatened some of the chiefs who had consented to it with death.
					He claimed that these tribes could not make a valid transfer of land without the
						consent of all the chiefs.
					In July, 1810, Governor Harrison sent a letter to The Prophet at Tippecanoe, the object
						of which was to point out the folly of his conduct and give him assurance of the
						friendly intentions of the United States government. In this communication he said: 
							"What reason have you to complain of the United States? Have they taken anything
								from you? Have they ever violated the treaties made with the red men? You say they
								have purchased land from those who had no right to sell. Show the truth of this and
								the land will be instantly restored. Show us the rightful owners of those lands
								which have been purchased. Let them present themselves. The ears of your father will
								be open to their complaints, and, if any lands have been purchased from those who
								did not own them, they will be restored to their rightful owners. I have full power
								to arrange this business. But if you would rather carry your complaints before your
								great father, the president, you shall be indulged. I will instantly take the means
								to send you, and three chiefs, to be chosen by you, to the city where your father
								lives. Everything necessary shall be prepared for your journey, and means taken to
								insure your safe return."
						
					
					The reception of Joseph Barron, the bearer of this letter, was somewhat remarkable. He
						was ushered into the presence of The Prophet and made to stand at a distance 
						
							PRESENT SITE OF PROPHET'S TOWN.
						
						 of ten or twelve feet from him for a considerable time
						before The Prophet, though he knew him well, uttered a word. He then inquired,
						contemptuously, upon what errand he came. He said: "Brouillette was here; he was spy.
						Dubois was here; he was a spy. Now you have come. You, too, are a spy.
						There is your grave! look on it! The Prophet then pointed to the ground near where
						Barron stood. Tecumseh presently entered and assured Mr. Barron that his life was in no
						danger.
					The contents of Governor Harrison's letter was then made known. Tecumseh stated that he
						would visit the governor at Vincennes within a short time, and would then reply in
						person to his message. Governor Harrison, fearing that treachery might be meditated by
						Tecumseh, requested that when on his visit he should be accompanied by but few warriors.
						Contrary to this request, Tecumseh took with him seventy-five well armed men. He reached
						Vincennes on the 12th of August, where he remained until the 22d, holding frequent
						interviews with the governor. In a speech delivered at the opening of these councils he
						said: 
							"I have made myself what I am, and I would that I could make the red people as
								great as the conceptions of my mind, when I think of the Great Spirit that rules
								over all. I would not then come to Governor Harrison to ask him to tear the treaty,
								but I would say to him, brother, you have liberty to return to your own country.
								Once there were no white men in all this country; then it belonged to red men,
								children of the same parents, placed on it by the Great Spirit, to keep it, to
								travel over it, to eat its fruits, and fill it with the same race--once a happy
								race, but now made miserable by the white people, who are never contented, but
								always encroaching. They have driven us from the great salt water, forced us  over the mountains, and would shortly push us into the
								lakes--but we are determined to go no farther. The only way to stop this evil is for
								all the red men to unite in claiming a common and equal right in the land, as it was
								at first, and should be now--for it never was divided, but belongs to all. No tribe
								has a right to sell, even to each other, much less to strangers, who demand all, and
								will take no less. The white people have no right to take the land from the Indians,
								who had it first; it is theirs. They may sell, but all must join. Any sale not made
								by all is not good. The late sale is bad--it was made by a part only. Part do not
								know how to sell. It requires all to make a bargain for all."
						
					
					Governor Harrison, in his reply, said: 
							"The white people, when they arrived upon this continent, had found the Miamis in
								the occupation of all the country of the Wabash, and at that time the Shawnees were
								residents of Georgia, from which they were driven by the Creeks; that the lands had
								been purchased from the Miamis, who were the true and original owners of it; that it
								was ridiculous to assert that all the Indians were one nation, for if such had been
								the intention of the Great Spirit, He would not have put six different tongues in
								their heads, but would have taught them all to speak one language; that the Miamis
								had found it for their interest to sell a part of their lands, and receive for them
								a further annuity, in addition to what they had long enjoyed, and the benefit of
								which they had experienced, from the punctuality with which the Seventeen Fires
								complied with their engagements, and that the Shawnees had no right to come from a
								distant country to control the Miamis in the disposal of their own property."
						
					
					In a speech delivered on the 20th of August, which was written down by order of
						Governor Harrison, Tecumseh said: 
						
							"Brothers, I wish you to listen to me well. As I think that you do not clearly
								understand what I before said to you, I will explain it again.
							"Brothers, since the peace was made, you have killed some of the Shawnees,
								Winnebagoes, Delawares and Miamis, and you have taken our land from us, and I do not
								see how we can remain at peace if you continue to do so. You try to force the red
								people to do some injury. It is you that is pushing them on to do mischief. You
								endeavor to make distinctions. You wish to prevent the Indians doing as we wish
								them--to unite, and let them consider the lands as the common property of the whole.
								You take tribes aside and advise them not to come into this measure; and, until our
								design is accomplished, we do not wish to accept of your invitation to go and see
								the president.
							"The reason I tell you this, you want, by your distinctions of Indian tribes, in
								allotting to each a particular tract of land, to make them war with each other. You
								never see an Indian come and endeavor to make the white people do so. You are
								continually driving the red people; when, at last you will drive them into the Great
								Lakes where they can't either stand or walk.
							"Brother, you ought to know what you are doing with the Indians. Perhaps it is by
								direction of the president to make those distinctions. It is a very bad thing and we
								do not like it. Since my residence at Tippecanoe, we have endeavored to level all
								distinctions--to destroy village chiefs, by whom mischief is done. It is they who
								sell our lands to the Americans. Our object is to let our affairs be transacted by
								warriors.
							"Brothers, this land that was sold and the goods that were given for it was only
								done by a few. The treaty was brought here, and the Weas were induced to give  their consent to it because of their small numbers. The
								treaty of Fort Wayne was made through the treats of Winnemac, but in the future we
								are prepared to punish those chiefs who may come forward to propose to sell the
								land. If you continue to purchase of them, it will produce war among the different
								tribes, and at last I do not know what will be the consequence to the white
								people.
							"Brother, I was glad to hear your speech. You said that if we could show that the
								land was sold by people who had no right to sell, you would restore it. Those that
								did sell did not own it. It was me. These tribes set up a claim, but the tribes with
								me will not agree with their claims. If the land is not restored to us you will see,
								when we return to our homes, how it will be settled. We shall have a great council,
								at which all the tribes will be present, when we shall show to those who sold that
								they had no right to the claim they set up. We will see what will be done to those
								chiefs that did sell the land to you. I am not alone in this determination. It is
								the determination of all the warriors and red people that listen to me. I now wish
								you to listen to me. If you do not, it will appear that you wished me to kill all
								the chiefs that sold you the land. I tell you so because I am authorized by all the
								tribes to do so. I am the head of them all; I am a warrior, and all the warriors
								will meet together in two or three moons from this; then I shall call for those
								chiefs that sold you the land and shall know what to do with them.
							"Brother, I do not believe I came here to get presents from you. If you offer us
								any we will not take them. By taking goods from you you will hereafter say that with
								them you purchased another piece of land from us. * * * * It has been the object of
								both myself and brother to prevent the lands being sold. Should you not return  the land it will occasion us to call a great council
								that will meet at the Huron village, and those who sold the land shall be called and
								shall suffer for their conduct.
							"Brother, I wish you would take pity on the red people and do what I have
								requested. If you will not give up the land, and do cross the boundary of your
								present settlement, it will be very hard and cause great trouble among us. How can
								we have confidence in the white people? When Jesus Christ came on earth you killed
								Him and nailed Him on a cross. You thought He was dead, but you were mistaken. You
								have Shakers among you, and you laugh and make light of their worship. Everything I
								have said to you is the truth. The Great Spirit has inspired me, and I speak nothing
								but the truth to you. * * * Brother, I hope you will confess that you ought not to
								have listened to those bad birds who bring you bad news. I have declared myself
								freely to you, and if any explanation should be required from our town, send a man
								who can speak to us. If you think proper to give us any presents, and we can be
								convinced that they are given through friendship, we will accept them. As we intend
								to hold our council at the Huron village, which is near the British, we may probably
								make them a visit. Should they offer us any presents of goods we will not take them.
								Should they offer us powder and the tomahawk we will take the powder and refuse the
								tomahawk. I wish you, brother, to consider everything I have said as true, and that
								it is the sentiment of all the red people that listen to me."
						
					
					At the close of Tecumseh's address, Governor Harrison commenced a reply. He was
						speaking of the justice with which the United States government had treated the most
						insignificant tribes, when he was interrupted by Tecumseh, who, in an angry manner and
						with violent gesticulations, denounced his assertions as untrue.
					
					When he commenced, a number of Indians sprang to their feet, armed with war clubs and
						tomahawks. The governor did not understand the Shawnee tongue, and was unable to tell
						what Tecumseh was saying until it was explained by an interpreter. But General Gibson,
						the secretary of the territory, who understood the Shawnee language, was present, and
						fearing that trouble would ensue, ordered Jesse Jennings with his guard of twelve men to
						come up. When Harrison learned what Tecumseh had said, he declared that he would proceed
						no further, but would dismiss the council at once. When an interpreter visited Tecumseh
						on the following morning, he disclaimed any intention of rudeness or insult by his
						conduct on this occasion. Governor Harrison said: 
							"He also told Mr. Barron that he had been informed that the citizens here were
								equally divided--one-half on my side and the other on his--one-half opposed to the
								purchase of lands from the Indians, and the other, with me, determined to drive the
								Indians to extremities; that he had been told that I purchased the lands against the
								consent of the government, and one-half of the people, who, in fact, did not want
								the land, as they already had more than they could use. This he knew to be true, as
								he had sent some of his men to reconnoiter the settlements, and he found that the
								lands toward the Ohio were not settled at all."
						
					
					Governor Harrison granted another council which was convened on the 21st of August in a
						grove near his residence. Tecumseh was very polite in his speech and repeated in
						substance what he had told Mr. Barron in the morning. The governor requested of him a
						definite answer as to whether or not the Kickapoos would accept their annuities, to
						which he replied: 
							"Brother, when you speak of annuities to me, I look at the land and pity the women
								and children. I am authorized to say that they will not receive them.  Brother, we want to save that piece of land. We do not
								wish you to take it. It is small enough for our purpose. If you do take it, you must
								blame yourself as the cause of trouble between us and the tribes that sold it to
								you. I want the present boundary line to continue. Should you cross it, I assure you
								it will be productive of bad consequences."
						
					
					On the 22d, accompanied only by his interpreter, Governor Harrison visited the Indian
						camp and held a long interview with Tecumseh. He told him that his claims to the lands
						in question would never be acknowledged by the president of the United States. To this
						Tecumseh responded: 
							"Well, as the great chief is to determine the matter, I hope the Great Spirit will
								put sense enough into his head to induce him to direct you to give up the land. It
								is true, he is so far off he will not be injured by the war. He may sit still in his
								town, and drink his wine, while you and I will have to fight it out."
						
					
					After this the council adjourned, and Tecumseh and his followers returned to the Indian
						country.
					Toward the close of May, 1810, a conference was held at a place known as "the cow
						pasture" on the St. Joseph river, of Lake Michigan. In this council there were
						representatives of the Delawares, Pottawatomies, Chippewas, Ottawas and Shawnees. This
						council, through the influence of the Delawares and the friendly Pottawatomie chief,
						Winnemac, refused to join The Prophet's confederacy. The natural consequence of these
						disturbances was to retard settlement in the Indiana Territory throughout the year 1810.
						Governor Harrison made persistent attempts to preserve peace with the various Indian
						tribes. He sent frequent messages to The Prophet at Tippecanoe, as well as to the Miami,
						Pottawatomie and Delaware tribes. His ablest spies and messengers were 
						
							BURNETT'S CREEK AND BATTLE GROUND, FROM THE WEST.
						
						 Touissant, Dubois, Joseph Barron, M. Brouillette, Francis
						Vigo, John Conner, Pierre La Plante and Willam Prince. Late in the summer a party of
						Indians stole four horses from a settlement in the northern part of Knox county.
						Depredations were also committed on the settlements along White river. About September,
						1810, Captain Cross arrived at Vincennes from Newport, Ky., with a body of troops. These
						soldiers were intended, with three companies of militia infantry and a company of
						dragoons, for the purpose of erecting a fort on the left bank of the Wabash near the
						northern boundary of the territory acquired by the Government through the treaty of Fort
						Wayne, in 1809. But the erection of this fort was postponed until the following
						year.
					Early in 1811 the British agent of Indian affairs in Canada, believing a war between
						his Government and the United States to be inevitable, began, with unusual vigor, to
						stir up discontent with the United States government among the Northwestern Indians,
						that they might be made allies of Great Britain. Governor Harrison's instructions from
						Washington advised a conciliatory policy as long as such would be consistent with the
						duty the Government owed its citizens. The secretary of war intimated to Governor
						Harrison that the surest way of securing good conduct from Tecumseh and The Prophet
						would be to make them captives. A Creek Indian at Vincennes was murdered by a white man,
						and, though put on trial for murder, the jury refused to convict. Two Wea Indians were
						wounded about twenty miles from Vincennes by whites, a party of government surveyors
						were frightened from their work and a murder committed by Indians in the Illinois
						Territory. In 1810 The Prophet refused to accept his annuity of salt, but in the spring
						of 1811 he seized an entire boat load, which was intended for a number  of tribes, and sent word to the governor not to be angry at
						his seizing the salt as he had got none last year and had more than 2,000 men to
						feed.
					In June, 1811, General Harrison sent the following speech to Tecumseh, The Prophet and
						others by Capt. Walter Wilson: 
							"Brothers, listen to me: I speak to you about matters of importance both to the
								white people and yourselves; open your ears, therefore, and attend to what I shall
								say. Brothers, this is the third year that all the white people in this country have
								been alarmed at your proceedings; you threaten us with war; you invite all of the
								tribes to the north and west of you to join against us. Brothers, your warriors who
								have lately been here deny this, but I have received information from every
								direction; the tribes on the Mississippi have sent me word that you intended to
								murder me, and then to commence a war upon our people. I have also received the
								speech you sent to the Pottawatomies and others to join you for that purpose, but if
								I had no other evidence of your hostility toward us, your seizing the salt I lately
								sent up the Wabash is sufficient. Brothers, our citizens are alarmed, and my
								warriors are preparing themselves, not to strike you, but to defend themselves and
								their women and children. You shall not surprise us as you expect to do; you are
								about to undertake a very rash act. As a friend, I advise you to consider well of
								it; a little reflection may save us a great deal of trouble and prevent mischief; it
								is not yet too late.
							"Brothers, what can be the inducement for you to undertake an enterprise when there
								is so little probability of success? Do you really think that the handful of men
								that you have about you are able to contend with the Seventeen Fires, or even that
								the whole of the tribes  united could contend against
								the Kentucky Fire alone? Brothers, I am myself of the Long Knife Fire [Virginia and
								Kentucky]. As soon as they hear my voice you will see them pouring forth their
								swarms of hunting-shirt men, as numerous as the mosquitoes on the shores of the
								Wabash. Brothers, take care of their stings. Brothers, it is not our wish to hurt
								you. If we did we certainly have power to do it. Look at the number of our warriors
								east of you, above and below the Great Miami; to the south on both sides of the
								Ohio, and below you also. You are brave men, but what could you do against such a
								multitude? We wish you to live in peace and happiness.
							"Brothers, the citizens of this country are alarmed. They must be satisified that
								you have no design to do them mischief, or they will not lay aside their arms. You
								have also insulted the Government by seizing the salt that was intended for other
								tribes; satisfaction must be given for that also. Brothers, you talk of coming to
								see me, attended by all your young men; this, however, must not be so. If your
								intentions are good, you have need to bring but a few of your young men with you. I
								must be plain with you; I will not suffer you to come into our settlements with such
								a force.
							"Brothers, if you wish to satisfy us that your intentions are good, follow the
								advice I have given you before; that is, that one or both of you should visit the
								president of the United States and lay your grievances before him. He will treat you
								well, will listen to what you say, and if you can show him that you have been
								injured, you will receive justice. If you will follow my advice in this respect, it
								will convince the citizens of this country and myself that you have no design to
								attack them. Brothers, with respect to the lands that were purchased last fall, I
								can enter into no negotiations with you on that subject; the affair  is in the hands of the president. If you wish to go and
								see him, I will supply you with the means.
							"Brothers, the person who delivers this is one of my war officers. He is a man in
								whom I have entire confidence. Whatever he says to you, although it may not be
								contained in this paper, you may believe comes from me.
							"My friend Tecumseh, the bearer is a good man and a brave warrior. I hope you will
								treat him well. You are yourself a warrior, and all such should have esteem for each
								other."
						
					
					Captain Wilson was received by Tecumseh with great courtesy. He sent the following
						reply to Governor Harrison's letter: 
							"Brother, I give you a few words, until I will be with you myself--Tecumseh.
							"Brother, at Vincennes, I wish you to listen to me while I send you a few words;
								and I hope that they will ease your heart. I know you look on your young men and
								your women and children with pity, to see them so much alarmed. Brother, I wish you
								to now examine what you have from me. I hope it will be a satisfaction to you, if
								your intentions are like mine, to wash away all these bad stories that have been
								circulated. I will be with you myself in eighteen days from this day. Brother, we
								can not say what will become of us, as the Great Spirit has the management of us at
								His will. I may be there before the time, and may not be there until that day. I
								hope that when we come together, all these bad tales will be settled. By this I hope
								your young men, women and children, will be easy. I wish you, brother, to let them
								know when I come to Vincennes and see you, all will be settled in peace and
								happiness. Brother, these are only a few words to let you know that I will be with
								you myself; and when I am with you I can inform you better.  Brother, if I find that I can be with you in less than eighteen days, I
								will send one of my young men before me, to let you know what time I will be with
								you."
						
					
					On the 27th of July, Tecumseh, with about 300 Indians, of whom twenty or thirty were
						women, arrived at Vincennes. When about twenty miles from that place, he was intercepted
						by Captain Wilson, with a message from Governor Harrison, in which he complained of the
						Indians approaching his capital with so large a force. Tecumseh stated that he had but
						twenty-four warriors with him, and that the remainder of the delegation came
						voluntarily. The appearance of so many Indians alarmed the governor and the people of
						Vincennes. On the day of their arrival the governor reviewed the county militia, which
						consisted of about 750 well-armed men, and stationed two companies of militia infantry
						and a detachment of dragoons on the borders of the town. Tecumseh made friendly
						professions to Governor Harrison. He disclaimed any intention of making war against the
						United States, and stated his object to be simply the formation of a confederacy among
						the Indian tribes. This, he said, had been effected with the Indians of the North, and
						that he was then on his way to accomplish a similar result among the Creeks, Choctaws
						and Chickasaws and other southern Indians. He was opposed to the murdering of white
						settlers by the Indians, and advised the various tribes to refrain from such
						depredations. He thought that the whites should forgive the past Indian murderers,
						inasmuch as he had forgiven white men guilty of the same offense against the red men.
						Tecumseh's stay at Vincennes was brief. He soon left, accompanied by twenty warriors,
						moving down the Wabash on his way to the southern tribes. Many of the white people at
						Vincennes believed that Tecumseh meditated hostile intentions when he approached their
						town,  but abandoned them in view of the large military
						display made under the direction of Governor Harrison.
					In his report to the war department concerning this council, Governor Harrison speaks
						of the implicit obedience and respect that the followers of Tecumseh paid to him as
						wonderful. In this letter he says: 
							"If it were not for the vicinity of the United States, he would perhaps be the
								founder of an empire that would rival in glory Mexico or Peru. No difficulties deter
								him. For four years he has been in constant motion. You see him today on the Wabash,
								and in a short time hear of him on the shores of Lake Erie or Michigan, or on the
								banks of the Mississippi, and wherever he goes he makes an impression favorable to
								his purpose. He is now upon the last round to put a finishing stroke upon his work.
								I hope, however, before his return that that part of the work which he considered
								complete will be demolished and even its foundation rooted up."
						
					
					It seems that, not withstanding the power of Tecumseh over the majority of his
						adherents was established upon their great regard for him, some were conquered by fear
						alone, and the instant Tecumseh had departed from their vicinity for the South, they
						took occasion to express their dissatisfaction.
					We have only some fragmental accounts of Tecumseh's visit with the Indians of the
						southern States. He told the Creeks that he came more than a thousand miles from the
						borders of Canada to visit their nation, and, if possible, influence them to join with
						the English against the Americans, when he should desire them. A midnight conference of
						the chiefs was convened. A powerful address was delivered by Tecumseh, and the chiefs
						unanimously agreed to commence hostilities when he requested them. Teoumseh afterward
						labored with the Indians of  Florida, Alabama and Missouri.
						He moved with a great caution in the establishment of his confederacy, and met with
						little opposition in the South. He appealed with great eloquence to the superstitions
						and passions of the various Indian tribes. He had told Governor Harrison that he would
						spend nearly a year among the southern Indians upon this mission, and on his return
						would visit the president of the United States and make an amicable settlement of all
						difficulties. He requested the governor in the meantime to refrain from settling the
						territory acquired by the treaty of Fort Wayne. But the governor was informed that
						Tecumseh would be gone but three months, and he, therefore, acted with promptness, so
						that when Tecumseh returned to the Wabash with his plans completed, he found that his
						capital had been destroyed. For some time previous to the battle, the murderous
						depredations of the Indians continued to keep the white settlers in constant alarm. The
						people of Vincennes, in a public meeting held on the 31st of July, 1811, requested the
						general government to afford them military protection. President Madison had, however,
						on the 17th of that month, placed the Fourth Regiment of mounted infantry, commanded by
						Colonel Boyd, at the disposal of Governor Harrison, with orders to proceed with caution
						and if possible avert a general conflict. In August, 1811, the governor sent a speech to
						all the Indian tribes of that locality, demanding the surrender of all Indians who were
						murderers of American citizens. He also required of the Miamis that they should prove
						that they were not connected with Tecumseh's confederation. In the following month a
						party of Indians from The Prophet's Town visited the governor at his capital, Vincennes,
						and made extravagant professions of friendship toward the United States government. But
						about the same time a  number of horses belonging to
						settlers were stolen. They were tracked to the town of Tippecanoe and were surrendered
						to the searching company, but were retaken by the Indians who appeared to regret that
						they had delivered them to the whites.
				
				

				
					CHAPTER IV.
					The March to Prophet's Town.

					
						HARRISON, having lost hopes of a peaceful solution of difficulties,
						determined upon an aggressive policy. He resolved to march on The Prophet's Town before
						Tecumseh should return from the South. The following are some of the orders given by
						General Harrison before his army moved from Vincennes: 
							"HEADQUARTERS, VINCENNES,
								16th September, 1811.
							"The governor of the Indiana Territory and commander-in-chief of the militia, being
								charged by the president of the United States with a military expedition, takes
								command of the troops destined for the same; viz.: The detachment of regular troops
								under command of Col. John P. Boyd (consisting of the Fourth United States Regiment
								of infantry, and a company of the rifle regiment), the present garrison of Fort
								Knox, and the various detachments of militia, infantry and dragoons which have been
								ordered for this service. As the present garrison of Fort Knox is to form a part of
								Colonel Boyd's command, the officer commanding that post will receive the Colonel's
								orders. Captain Piatt, of the Second United States Regiment, has been appointed
								quartermaster for all the troops employed on the expedition, and is to be obeyed and
								respected as such. Capt. Robert Buntin is appointed quartermaster for the militia,
								and is to be obeyed and  respected accordingly. Henry
								Hurst, Esq., and the Hon. Waller Taylor, aids-de-camp to the commander-in-chief,
								and, having the rank of majors, are announced as such; all orders coming from them,
								in his name, whether in writing or verbally delivered, are to be respected and
								obeyed, as if delivered by the commander-in-chief in person. Captain Piatt is to
								have the superintendence of persons appertaining to the quartermaster's or military
								agent's department, and the direction of all stores destined for the use of the
								expedition."
						
						
							"HEADQUARTERS, VINCENNES,
								21st September, 1811.
							"The commandants of the several infantry corps will immediately commence drilling
								their men to the performance of the evolutions, contemplated by the
								commander-in-chief, for the order of march and battle. The principal feature in all
								these evolutions is that of a battalion changing its direction by swinging around on
								its center. This, however, is not to be done by wheeling, which for a large body, is
								impracticable in woods. It is to be formed thus: The battalion being on its march in
								a single rank, and its center being ascertained, the front division comes to the
								right about, excepting the man in the rear of that division; at the same time the
								front man of the second division takes a position about four feet to the left of the
								man in the rear of the front division, and dresses with him in a line at right
								angles to the line of march, these two men acting as guides or markers for the
								formation of the new alignment. At the word 'form the new alignment, march!' the men
								of the front division, passing in succession to the left of their guide and doubling
								round him, form on his right; the men of the rear division at the same moment filing
								up in succession to the left of their guide, dress in a line with him and the guide
								of the front  division. This movement may be performed
								by any number of men whatever--by a company or platoon as well as by a
								battalion.
							"Joseph Hamilton Daveiss, Esq., has been appointed and comissioned major of
								dragoons in the militia of Indiana Territory; and is appointed to the command of all
								the dragoons employed on the present expedition--which, for this purpose, will form
								one squadron."
						
						
							"HEADQUARTERS, VINCENNES,
								22d September, 1811.
							"The whole of the infantry, regulars and militia, is to be considered as one
								brigade, to be under the command of Col. John P. Boyd as brigadier-general.
								Lieutenant-colonel Miller will command the first line, composed of the whole of the
								United States troops; and Lieutenant-colonel Bartholomew the second line, composed
								of the whole of the militia infantry; and these officers will report to, and receive
								their orders from, Colonel Boyd. The whole of the cavalry will be under the command
								of Major Daveiss, who will report to, and receive his orders from, the
								commander-in-chief. Captain Spencer's company of volunteers will act as a detached
								corps, and the captain will receive his orders from the commander-in-chief; they are
								received as a company of mounted volunteers.
							"The whole army will parade to-morrow at 1 o'clock; the infantry in two columns of
								files in single rank. The regular troops will form the leading battalions of each
								column; the militia infantry the rear. The columns will be at such a distance from
								each other that when the battalions change their order to one at right angles to
								their order of march their flanks will meet. Major Daveiss will place his largest
								troop of dragoons in a squadron at open order 150 yards advanced of the columns  of infantry, and at right angles to the order of march.
								The next largest troop will be placed in the same form and order at 150 yards in
								rear of the columns. The third troop will be placed, in single line, on the right
								flank, at 150 yards from the line of infantry, and parallel thereto. Captain
								Spencer's company will be formed on the left flank, in single rank, and in a line
								parallel to the infantry, at a distance of 150 yards from the left column.
							"The army, thus formed, will commence its march--the columns taking care to keep
								their distance and their heads dressed. When in the woods the movements will be
								regulated by signals from the drums. The maneuvering on to-morrow being on open
								ground, the sight will be sufficient to govern the movements. Upon the word being
								given to 'receive the enemy in front in two lines,' each battalion (of which there
								are supposed to be four--two in each column) will swing round on its center in the
								manner directed by the general order of the 21st instant. The dragoons in front will
								be supposed to keep the enemy in check until the lines are formed, when they will be
								recalled by a signal, which, for the present, will be the retreat. The dragoons and
								mounted riflemen on the flanks and in the rear will continue their first positions
								until ordered otherwise. If the second line should be ordered up to form on the
								flank of the first line, the commanding officer will order the line to break off by
								files from the right of platoons--the right battalion marching obliquely to the
								right, and the left to the left, and forming, respectively, upon the right and left
								of the front line. At the same time the dragoons and mounted riflemen on the flanks
								will incline to the right or left, as the case may be, to give room for the infantry
								to form, and will endeavor to turn the flank of the enemy. When the first troop of
								dragoons is called, it will pass in short columns of files through the  intervals of the front line, and form a corps de reserve immediately in the rear of the front line; and, upon the
								moving up of the second line of infantry, the rear troop of dragoons will move up
								and join the advanced troop in the rear of the first line. The lines of march will
								be formed again in the manner the commander-in-chief shall direct. Dr. Blood, having
								been appointed a surgeon's mate, Dr. Foster will employ him in such a manner as will
								be most beneficial to the service."
						
						
							"HEADQUARTERS, VINCENNES,
								22d September, 1811.
							"After Orders.--The army being formed in the order of march prescribed by the
								general order of the day, if an attack should be made on the right flank, the whole
								will face to the right, and it will then be in two lines parallel to the line of
								march, the right column forming the front line and the left the rear. Should the
								attack be made on the left flank, the reverse of what is here described will take
									place--i. e., the whole army will face to the left, the left
								column acting as the front line, and the right as the rear--the same maneuver as is
								directed for an attack in front, with this difference only, that the leading grand
								division of each battalion will form by the filing up of each man in succession, and
								the second grand division by doubling round its front guide and displaying to the
								left. To resist an attack in front and rear, the two leading battalions will perform
								the maneuver directed for the front attack, and the two others that which has been
								last described. In all cases where there is an attack other than a front one, the
								dragoons and riflemen will consider themselves as front, rear, or flank guards,
								according to the situation they may be placed in, relatively to the rest of the
								army, and perform the duties which those situations respectively require, as
								heretofore directed."
						
					

					

					On the 26th of September, General Harrison, in command of this military expedition,
						left Vincennes. On the 3d of October he encamped at a point on the east side of the
						Wabash, two miles north of the present site of Terre Haute. This place, known by the
						French settlers as Bataville des Illinois, was, according to Indian
						tradition, the scene of a great battle between the Illinois and Iroquois tribes. Here
						General Harrison erected a fort, which, by unanimous request of his commissioned
						officers, was named Fort Harrison. General Harrison sent a message to the friendly
						Delaware chiefs, inviting them to meet him on the Wabash. The request was complied with
						by all who were able to march. While on their way to join Harrison, the Delaware chiefs
						were met by some of The Prophet's followers and told that the Indians were soon to take
						up arms against the Americans, and requested them to join the confederacy, and
						threatened them with punishment if they refused. Sending a message to Harrison to inform
						him of this, they visited The Prophet. On the evening of the 10th of October, a sentinel
						in Harrison's camp was severely wounded by some Indians who fired on him. Governor
						Harrison had hoped that the advance of his army from Vincennes would overawe the Indians
						and avert a conflict. The impression on them, though not sufficient for this, was very
						perceptible. The Miami chiefs started to visit him, and the Wea tribe declared that they
						would never join The Prophet. Harrison, being convinced of the warlike intentions of the
						savages, determined to march upon Tippecanoe, desiring, if possible, to bring the
						contest to a close before Tecumseh should return from among the southern Indians. His
						departure from Fort Harrison was delayed because of poor arrangements concerning his
						supply of provisions.
					On the 27th of October, the Delaware chiefs, who  had
						visited The Prophet at Tippecanoe, arrived at Fort Harrison. They reported to the
						general the hostile preparations of The Prophet. They stated that he treated them with
						great contempt and that he was practicing his diabolical rites and holding great war
						dances every night. They stated that the Indians, who fired on and wounded the sentinel
						at Fort Harrison, had returned to Tippecanoe, and that they belonged to the Shawnee
						tribe. And that The Prophet had declared his intention of burning the first prisoner
						taken.
					After a conference it was decided to send a deputation to The Prophet by the friendly
						Indian chiefs. The governor demanded of The Prophet that all stolen horses should be
						returned to their owners, and that Indian murderers of white settlers be delivered up to
						him, and that the Kickapoo, Pottawatomie and Winnebago Indians, then at Tippecanoe,
						should return to their tribes. Fort Harrison was completed on the 28th of October, and
						left garrisoned by a few soldiers, the majority of whom were invalids, under Lieutenant
						Miller.
					The army resumed its march for The Prophet's Town on the following day. It consisted of
						about 910 men, composed of 250 regular troops, under Col. John P. Boyd; about sixty
						Kentucky volunteers; and some 600 voluneers from the Indiana Territory, including
						companies organized at Corydon and Vincennes, and other points along the Wabash and Ohio
						rivers. Of these about 120 were dragoons. Among the Kentucky volunteers were some of
						that State's most gallant sons, such as Joseph Hamilton Daveiss, an eminent lawyer, a
						man of remarklble eloquence and talents; Gen. Samuel Wells, who had rendered valuable
						service in former Indian wars; Col. Abraham Owen, a venerable participant in frontier
						struggles; Colonel Guiger, who organized a small company near  Louisville; in this army also were Croghan, O'Fallon, Shipp, Cheem and
						Edwards, who afterward distinguished themselves as officers in the army of the United
						States.
					The march to Tippecanoe was conducted with great caution. There were two routes leading
						to The Prophet's Town in general use by the Indians; one on each side of the Wabash
						river. The one on the left, or southeast side was the shorter, but lay in a wooded
						country where the army would be exposed to ambuscade. The route on the right, or
						northwest side of the Wabash, presented less opportunity for such attacks, and was
						therefore preferred by General Harrison, over which to conduct his army. In order to
						deceive the Indians if possible, General Harrison caused the road on the southeast side
						of the river to be reconnoitered and opened into a wagon road. The army started from
						Fort Harrison, moving up the east bank until it had crossed Big Raccoon creek. But
						suddenly, on the 31st, he crossed the Wabash near the site of the present town of
						Montezuma, Parke county, and took the other trail. On the 2d of November, the army built
						a block-house about twenty-five feet square, in a small prairie, at a point on the west
						bank of the Wabash, nearly three miles below the mouth of the Big Vermillion river. At
						this post a guard of eight men and a sergeant were stationed for the purpose of
						protecting the boats, which up to this place had been used in the transportation of
						supplies. The uncertainty concerning the movements of the Indians had been a source of
						uneasiness to General Harrison. Had he been opposed by an army similar to his own, it
						would have been his duty as a military commander to have ascertained the situation of
						the enemy and to interpose his force between them and the unprotected settlements he
						left behind him. But, with an army of savages, who had no artillery or military supplies
							 to carry with them, who could traverse the forests
						without roads, who could dissolve their army organization into single men and reunite at
						a given point with the greatest secrecy and dexterity, the situation was hazardous.
						Since Governor Harrison was the civil as well as the military head of Indiana Territory,
						he was charged with the responsibility of protecting the women and children in the
						unprotected settlements. The thought that the Indian might be stealing his way to murder
						the defenseless inhabitants of Vincennes while he, with all available military force of
						the settlements, was marching to attack him in his own stronghold, bore heavily upon the
						governor's mind. He arose one night from his restless sleep and ordered Major Jordan of
						the Indiana volunteers to take with him forty picked men and return to Vincennes. His
						orders were, in case the army should be destroyed, to fortify the courthouse and other
						public buildings and to dispatch the governor of Kentucky, with the utmost speed, for
						assistance. The army proceeded on its march, there being no incident worthy of mention
						until it reached Big Pine creek in Warren county. This stream was bordered by high,
						rocky bluffs, covered by cedar and pine trees. The defile through which the army would
						have to pass in going down into and coming up out of this stream was long and narrow,
						and afforded an opportunity where a few men might successfully dispute the progress of
						his entire army. The Indians had twice availed themselves of this pass in opposing
						expeditions sent against them. First, in 1786, against an expedition led by General
						Clarke. Secondly, in 1790, against Colonel Hamtramck, who led a portion of the American
						army.
					General Harrison halted and sent forth a reconnoitering party to find a crossing where
						his army would be less exposed to attack. A ford, evidently used by the Indians,  was found further up the stream, on the border of a prairie
						country. The beauty of this region, stretching away to the northwest, toward the
						Illinois river, a distance of about 100 miles, was viewed by the soldiers with great
						admiration. The Big Pine was crossed in safety. No Indians were seen until the army had
						well nigh reached The Prophet's Town.
					On the night of the 5th of November, the army encamped near the present village of
						Montmorenci, in the western part of Tippecanoe county, about ten miles from The
						Prophet's Town. On the following day the march was resumed. Indians were seen lurking
						about, and the interpreters in front of the army were instructed to interview them. The
						Indians refused to talk, and replied only with defiant gestures. At 2 o'clock in the
						afternoon of the 6th of November, the army arrived within about a mile and a half of The
						Prophet's Town. General Harrison was urged to make an immediate attack. But his
						instructions were to avoid hostilities, if possible, and he still hoped for the arrival
						in his army of the deputation of friendly Indians, which he had sent while yet at Fort
						Harrison, concerning whom nothing had been heard or seen. General Harrison sent Captain
						Dubois, accompanied by an interpreter, forward with a flag of truce. The Indians refused
						to converse with him, and endeavored to cut them off from the army on their return.
						Harrison determined to encamp for the night, and started in search of suitable ground.
						When he had almost reached the town, The Prophet sent forward a deputation of three
						Indians, including his chief counsellor. With much pretended innocence they inquired why
						the American army had approached so near their town. They disclaimed all hostile
						intentions, and told Harrison that The Prophet had sent a pacific message to him by the
						friendly Indians, who  had returned to Fort Harrison by the
						road on the southeast side of the Wabash, and had by that cause failed to meet him. It
						was arranged that General Harrison should meet The Prophet on the following day and
						conclude a treaty of peace. He inquired of the Indians for a suitable camping ground,
						where the army could have plenty of fuel and water. They referred him to a site on a
						creek northwest of the town. Harrison dispatched two of his officers, Majors Marston G.
						Clark and Waller Taylor, to inspect this ground. After an examination, they reported
						everything satisfactory, and the army went into camp for the night.
				

				

				
					
						PLAN OF THE BATTLE GROUND.
					

					

					CHAPTER V.
					The Battle.

					
						THE camping ground was a spot of high oak land rising several feet
						above a marshy prairie fronting it on the southeast, and extending to the Indian town.
						The height at the west bank of this tract was much greater and overlooked a small
						prairie, through the edge of which, near the border of the camping ground, ran a small
						stream, now known as Burnett's creek. This stream was skirted on either side by a dense
						growth of willow and other shrubs. The place was an admirable camping ground, but it
						afforded every facility for a night surprise, which was just the kind, of an attack
						meditated by the Indians. Such a treacherous spirit no doubt prompted their
						recommendations of the spot to General Harrison. To offset this danger, Harrison ordered
						his army to encamp in readiness for battle, the men sleeping upon their arms. The front,
						or southeast, and rear lines along the creek were guarded by columns of infantry,
						separated on the north, or left flank, by about 150 yards, but at the right, or south
						end, where the ground approached an abrupt point, the front and rear lines were but
						about eighty yards distant. This flank occupied a line about 150 yards north of the
						point, and was composed of Captain Spencer's company of eighty mounted riflemen. This
						company was known as the Yellow-jackets, because of the color of their uniform. The left
						flank was more exposed and consisted of 120  mounted
						riflemen, under command of Major-general Wells, of the Kentucky volunteers. The front
						line, facing the marshy prairie to the southeast, was composed of Major Floyd's
						battalion of United States infantry, flanked on the left and right by two companies.
					The rear line, facing Burnett's creek, was occupied by Major Baen's battalion of United
						States infantry, and four companies of militia infantry, commanded by Lieutenant-colonel
						Decker. Two companies of dragoons, consisting of sixty men, under command of Major
						Joseph H. Daveiss, occupied a position in the rear of the left flank, while Captain
						Parke, with a larger force, was placed to the rear of the front. In case a night attack
						was made, the dragoons were instructed to parade dismounted, with pistols in belt, as a
						reserve corps.
					The following account of the battle of Tippecanoe is taken from the official dispatch
						sent by General Harrison to the secretary of war, on the 18th of November, eleven days
						after the battle: 
							"I had risen at a quarter after four o'clock, and the signal for calling out the
								men would have been given in two minutes, when the attack commenced. It began on the
								left flank; but a single gun was fired by the sentinels, or by the guard in that
								direction, which made not the least resistance, but abandoned their officer and fled
								into camp; and the first notice which the troops of that flank had of the danger,
								was from the yells of the savages a short distance from the line; but, even under
								these circumstances, the men were not wanting to themselves or to the occasion. Such
								of them as were awake, or were easily awakened, seized their arms and took their
								stations; others, which were more tardy, had to contend with the enemy in the doors
								of their tents. The storm first fell upon Captain Barton's company, of the Fourth
									 United States Regiment, and Captain Guiger's company
								of mounted riflemen, which formed the left angle of the rear line. The fire upon
								these was excessively severe, and they suffered considerably before relief could be
								brought to them. Some few Indians passed into the encampment near the angle, and one
								or two penetrated to some distance before they were killed. I believe all the other
								companies were under arms, and tolerably formed, before they were fired on. The
								morning was dark and cloudy. Our fires afforded a partial light, which, if it gave
								us some opportunity of taking our position, was still more advantageous to the
								enemy, affording them the means of taking a surer aim. They were, therefore,
								extinguished as soon as possible.
							"Under these discouraging circumstances, the troops (nineteen-twentieths of whom
								had never been in an action before) behaved in a manner that can never be too much
								applauded. They took their places without noise, and with less confusion than could
								have been expected from veterans placed in a similar situation. As soon as I could
								mount my horse, I rode to the angle that was attacked. I found that Barton's company
								had suffered severely, and the left of Guiger's entirely broken. I immediately
								ordered Cook's company, and the late Captain Wentworth's, under Lieutenant Peters,
								to be brought up from the center of the rear line, where the ground was much more
								defensible, and formed across the angle, in support of Barton's and Guiger's. My
								attention was then engaged by a heavy firing upon the left of the front line, where
								were stationed the small company of United States riflemen (then, however, armed
								with muskets), and the companies of Baen, Snelling and Prescott, of the Fourth
								Regiment.
							"I found Major Daveiss forming the dragoons in the rear of those companies, and
								understanding that the  heaviest part of the enemy's
								fire proceeded from some trees about fifteen or twenty paces in front of those
								companies, I directed the major to dislodge them with a part of the dragoons.
								Unfortunately, the major's gallantry determined him to execute the order with a
								smaller force than was sufficient, which enabled the enemy to avoid him in the front
								and attack his flanks. The major was mortally wounded, and his party driven back.
								The Indians were, however, immediately and gallantly dislodged from their
								advantageous position, by Captain Snelling, at the head of his company.
							"In the course of a few minutes after the commencement of the attack, the fire
								extended along the left flank, the whole of the front, the right flank and part of
								the rear line. Upon Spencer's mounted riflemen, and the right of Warrick's company,
								which was posted on the right of the rear line, it was excessively severe. Captain
								Spencer, and his first and second lieutenants, were killed, and Captain Warrick
								mortally wounded. Those companies, however, still bravely maintained their posts;
								but Spencer's having suffered so severely, and having originally too much ground to
								occupy, I reinforced them with Robb's company of riflemen, which had been driven,
								or, by mistake, ordered from their position in the left flank, toward the center of
								the camp, and filled the vacancy that had been occupied by Robb with Prescott's
								company of the Fourth United States Regiment. My great object was to keep the lines
								entire--to prevent the enemy from breaking into the camp, until daylight should
								enable me to make a general and effectual charge. With this view I had reinforced
								every part of the line that had suffered much; and as soon as the approach of
								morning discovered itself, I withdrew from the front line Snelling's, Posey's (under
								Lieutenant Allbright) and Scott's, and from the rear line  Wilson's companies, and drew them up upon the left flank; and, at the
								same time, I ordered Cook's and Baen's companies--the former from the rear, and the
								latter from the front line--to reinforce the right flank, foreseeing that, at these
								points, the enemy would make their last efforts. Major Wells, who commanded on the
								left flank, not knowing my intentions precisely, had taken the command of these
								companies--had charged the enemy before I had formed the body of dragoons with which
								I meant to support the infantry; a small detachment of these were, however, ready,
								and proved amply sufficient for the purpose. The Indians were driven by the infantry
								at the point of the bayonet, and the dragoons pursued and forced them into a marsh,
								where they could not be followed. Captain Cook and Lieutenant Larrabee had,
								agreeably to my order, marched their companies to the right flank and formed them
								under fire of the enemy; and, being then joined by the riflemen of that flank, had
								charged the Indians, killed a number, and put the rest to precipitate flight.
							"The whole of the infantry formed a brigade, under the immediate orders of Colonel
								Boyd. The colonel, throughout the action, manifested equal zeal and bravery in
								carrying into execution my orders--in keeping the men to their posts, and exhorting
								them to fight with valor. His brigade-major, Clarke, and his aid-de-camp, George
								Croghan, Esq., were also very serviceably employed. Colonel Joseph Bartholomew, a
								very valuable officer, commanded, under Colonel Boyd, the militia infantry. He was
								wounded early in the action, and his services lost to me. Maj. G. R. C. Floyd, the
								senior officer, of the Fourth United States Regiment, commanded immediately the
								battalion of that regiment, which was in the front line. His conduct, during the
								action, was entirely  to my satisfaction.
								Lieutenant-colonel Decker, who commanded the battalion of militia on the right of
								the rear line, preserved his command in good order. He was, however, but partially
								attacked. I have before mentioned to you that Major-general Wells, of the Fourth
								Division of Kentucky Militia, acted, under my command, as a major, at the head of
								two companies of mounted volunteers. The general retained the fame which he had
								already acquired in almost every campaign, and in almost every battle which has been
								fought with the Indians since the settlement of Kentucky. Of the several corps, the
								Fourth United States Regiment, and the two small companies attached to it, were
								certainly the most conspicuous for undaunted valor. The companies commanded by
								Captains Cook, Snelling and Barton; Lieutenants Larrabee, Peters and Hawkins, were
								placed in situations where they could render most service, and encounter most
								danger; and those officers eminently distinguished themselves. Captains Prescott and
								Brown performed their duty, also, entirely to my satisfaction, as did Posey's
								company of the Seventh Regiment, headed by Lieutenant Allbright. In short, sir, they
								supported the fame of American regulars; and I have never heard that a single
								individual was found out of the line of his duty.
							"Several of the militia companies were in no wise inferior to the regulars.
								Spencer's, Guiger's and Warrick's maintained their posts amid a monstrous
								carnage--as, indeed, did Robb's, after it was posted on the left flank. Its loss of
								men (seventeen killed and wounded), and keeping its ground, is sufficient evidence
								of its firmness. Wilson's and Scott's companies charged with the regular troops, and
								proved themselves worthy of doing so. Norris' company also behaved well. Hargrove's
								and Wilkin's companies were placed in a situation where they  had no opportunity of distinguishing themselves, or, I am satisfied, they
								would have done it. This was the case with the squadron of dragoons also. After
								Major Daveiss received his wound, knowing it to be mortal, I promoted Captain Parke
								to the majority, than whom there is no better officer. My two aids-de-camp, Majors
								Hurst and Taylor, with Lieutenant Adams, of the Fourth Regiment, the adjutant of the
								troops, afforded me the most essential aid, as well in the action as throughout the
								campaign.
							"The arrangements of Captain Piatt, in the quartermaster's department, were highly
								judicious; and his exertions on all occasions--particularly in bringing off the
								wounded--deserve my warmest thanks. But, in giving merited praise to the living, let
								me not forget the gallant dead. Col. Abraham Owen, commandant of the Eighteenth
								Kentucky Regiment, joined me, a few days before the action, as a private in Captain
								Guiger's company. He accepted the appointment of volunteer aid-de-camp to me. He
								fell early in the action. The Representative of his State will inform you that she
								possessed not a better citizen, nor a braver man. Maj. J. H. Daveiss was known as an
								able lawyer and a great orator. He joined me as a private volunteer; and, on the
								recommendations of the officers of that corps, was appointed to command the three
								troops of dragoons. His conduct, in that capacity, justified their choice. Never was
								there an officer possessed of more ardor and zeal to discharge his duties with
								propriety, and never one who would have encountered greater danger to purchase
								military fame. Captain Baen, of the Fourth United States Regiment, was killed early
								in the action. He was unquestionably a good officer and a valiant soldier. Captains
								Spencer and Warrick, and Lieutenants McMahan and Berry, were all my particular
								friends. I have ever had the utmost confidence in their  valor, and I was not deceived. Spencer was wounded in the head. He exhorted his
								men to fight valiantly. He was shot through both thighs and fell; still continuing
								to encourage them, he was raised up, and received a ball through his body, which put
								an immediate end to his existence. Warrick was shot immediately through the body.
								Being taken to the surgery to be dressed, as soon as it was over (being a man of
								great bodily vigor and able to walk) he insisted on going back to the head of his
								company, although it was evident that he had but few hours to live."
						
					
					The American loss in the engagement was thirty-seven killed and 151 wounded, of which
						twenty-five were mortal. Among the killed or mortally wounded were: Colonels Joseph
						Hamilton Daveiss and Abraham Owen; Captains W. C. Baen, Spier Spencer and Jacob Warrick;
						Lieutenants Thomas Berry, Richard McMahan, Thomas Randolph, Esq., and Col. Isaac
						White.
					Among the wounded were: Lieutenants Luke Decker and Joseph Bartholomew; Dr. Edward
						Scull; Adjutant James Hunter; Lieutenants George Gooding, George P. Peters; Ensign Henry
						Burchstead; Capt. John Norris and Capt. Frederic Guiger.
					The Indians engaged in this conflict have been variously estimated at from 350 to 1,000
						warriors. The exact number can never be told. It is probable that it was about equal to
						that of the American army. Their loss was about the same as that of the whites, there
						being thirty-eight bodies found on the field after the battle. This fact, when
						considered with the custom of the Indians to carry off their dead, indicates a heavy
						loss.
					The Prophet, during the battle, stationed himself upon a small point of elevated ground
						near by and chanted war songs to encourage his followers. He had  predicted the crushing defeat of Harrison's army, and said that the bullets
						would leave the Indians unhurt. When, during the course of the battle, he was informed
						that some of his braves had been killed, he commanded the Indians to fight on, promising
						them an easy victory.
					The Indians, in this battle, were under the command of three chiefs, viz.: White-loon,
						Stone-eater and Winnemac. The warriors had been gathered from many tribes, including the
						Shawnees, Wyandottes or Hurons, Kickapoos, Pottawatomies, Winnebagoes, Ottawas,
						Chippewas, Sacs and a few Miamis.
					This defeat caused the Indians to lose faith in The Prophet. The great majority of them
						returned to their tribes. The Prophet, for a time took refuge in a Wyandotte settlement
						on the Wild Cat creek; he then went to Canada and remained under British protection for
						some time. But he afterward returned to Ohio and settled with the Shawnee Indians, and
						with that tribe removed to the Indian lands west of the Mississippi, where he died in
						1834, having been a pensioner of the British government since 1813.
					The battle of Tippecanoe was fought contrary to the orders of Tecumseh, who, when he
						returned from the South with his confederacy completed, found that all had been ruined
						by the folly of his brother.
					Tecumseh joined the British army in the War of 1812, and met his death in the battle of
						the Thames, October 5, 1813. It is said that the bullet which killed him was fired by
						Col. Richard M. Johnson, of Kentucky, who was afterward elected vice-president of the
						United States.
				

				

				
					
						PROPHET'S ROCK AND RATTLE-SNAKE CAVE.
					

					

					CHAPTER VI.
					 Incidents of the Battle.

					
						IN the battle of Tippecanoe some of the American soldiers displayed
						great bravery and fearlessness. For example, a young man, the flint of whose gun was out
						of order, despite the earnest protest of his companions went to a fire, and by a light
						created, repaired it. In this work he was made, by the light, a target for the Indian
						bullets. Many shots were fired at him, but he repaired his flint and returned to his
						post unharmed. The Indians, also, displayed exceptional bravery. Their fanaticism and
						superstition were worked to the highest pitch by The Prophet. In this battle the Indians
						abandoned their usual methods of firing, from behind trees and other protections, and
						rushed into the open field of the American camp. A Winnebago chief approached a fire, at
						a place where the American lines had been pushed back, to repair his flint. A number of
						shots were fired at him, one of which accomplished its deadly mission. The chief fell
						forward in the fire. A regular soldier of the United States army from New England went
						out to take his scalp, but, as the soldier was inexperienced in the business, it
						required considerable time for the completion of the job, and when he returned to the
						American lines from his barbarous errand he not only brought the scalp of the chief as a
						trophy, but also carried a mortal wound, inflicted by an Indian rifle. The  body of the chief was rescued by the Indians and carried
						into their town, where the American troops found it when they entered.
					During this fiercely fought and bloody conflict General Harrison displayed great
						bravery and courage, moving about over the battlefield on horseback. He made able
						disposition of his forces, strengthening those parts of the lines where the Indian
						attack was severest. Though entreated by his officers to refrain from exposing his
						person, he persisted in taking an active and open part in the engagement, doing much by
						word and example toward encouraging his men to remain firm under the galling fire in the
						darkness of the morning.
					A major, whose person and uniform resembled those of the general, was found by some of
						the men lying with face down in front of the lines, having been fatally shot. And as
						Harrison had shortly before been seen in that quarter of the field, the word soon spread
						along the line that the general had fallen. But Harrison presently appeared in that
						section of the field and allayed their fears, being received with loud huzzas. The
						person of the general was a special target for the Indian bullets. They conspired to
						assassinate him early in the battle.
					General Harrison had two horses. The one he usually rode was a white one. It was kept
						saddled and bridled during the night before the battle. The stake to which it was tied
						was pulled up and the animal hitched by a servant to the wheel of a wagon. When the
						attack was made this servant was so frightened that he could not remember where he had
						placed the horse. Major Taylor loaned General Harrison his horse. Early in the battle
						one of the general's aids, who rode a white horse, was shot, it is believed, by Indians
						who mistook him for Harrison. During the fight Harrison's hat rim was pierced and his
							 hair grazed by a rifle ball. The Indians chewed the
						bullets they used in this battle, that wounds created might be more lacerating. This
						partially accounts for the large mortality among the wounded. On the day of the battle
						the American army had no meat except boiled horse flesh. This day was spent in caring
						for the wounded, burying the dead and fortifying the camp.
					Upon the night previous to the engagement three Indians were found in the American
						camp. Whether they were there as spies, or, as is more probable, for the purpose of
						assassinating the general, is not known. They were seized and sent back to The Prophet
						with a demand of him for a negro, named Ben, who had deserted the American army under
						very suspicious circumstances. The negro had been employed as a bullock driver in the
						American army. When the force approached The Prophet's Town, he stated to his negro
						companions that he was not afraid to enter the Indian town. This they questioned,
						whereupon Ben started to prove his assertion. He was met by two Indians and conducted
						into camp. Some time after dark, Captain Wilson seized Ben while he was lurking near
						General Harrison's tent. The negro pleaded innocence of desertion; he claimed that he
						was forcibly taken into the Indian town, and had been released upon the return of the
						three Indians. He entered the American camp unchallenged by the sentinels. But the
						manner of the negro and the circumstances attending his capture by Captain Wilson, and
						the fact that no one had seen him in the camp prior to his capture, made it very
						probable that he was acting in the interest of the Indians. It was believed that he was
						reconnoitering in view to point out General Harrison's tent, that he might be
						assassinated. The fellow was tried on the same day of the battle by a drum-head
						court-martial. A sentence of  death was pronounced upon
						him. General Harrison, though he believed him to be guilty, was so much moved by pity
						that he could not find it in his heart to enforce the verdict. He referred the matter to
						his officers, who, after deliberation, agreed to release Ben from the death sentence.
						This result was brought about by the influence of Captain Snelling. The reasons for this
						lenity, explained by General Harrison in a letter to General Scott of Kentucky, do honor
						to his heart: 
							"The fact was that I began to pity him, and I could not screw myself up to the
								point of giving the fatal order. If he had been out of my sight, he would have been
								executed. But when he was first taken, General Wells and Colonel Owen, who were old
								Indian fighters, as we had no irons to put on him, had secured him after the Indian
								fashion. This is done by throwing a person on his back, splitting a log and cutting
								notches in it to receive the ankles, then replacing the several parts, and
								compressing them together with forks driven over the log into the ground. The arms
								are extended and tied to stakes secured in the same manner. The situation of a
								person thus placed is about as uneasy as can possibly be conceived. The poor wretch
								thus confined lay before my fire, his face receiving the rain that occasionally
								fell, and his eyes constantly turned upon me, as if imploring mercy. I could not
								withstand the appeal, and I determined to give him another chance for his life. I
								had all the commissioned officers assembled, and told them that his fate depended
								upon them. Some were for executing him, and I believe that a majority would have
								been against him, but for the interference of the gallant Snelling.
							"'Brave comrades,' said he, 'let us save him. The wretch deserves to die; but as
								our commander, whose  life was more particularly his
								object, is willing to spare him, let us also forgive him. I hope, at least, that
								every officer of the Fourth Regiment will be on the side of mercy.' Snelling
								prevailed; and Ben was brought to this place, where he was discharged."
						
					
					 On the morning of the 8th, General Wells, in command of a company of dragoons and
						mounted riflemen, reconnoitered The Prophet's Town. They found it deserted except by one
						chief, who remained because of a broken leg. The Americans dressed his injury and
						allowed him to return to his people. They told him that if the Indians would desert The
						Prophet, their past conduct would be forgiven. Large quantities of corn and some hogs
						and domestic fowls were found, which were of great use to the army in its impoverished
						condition. After using such of these as were required, the remainder and a large number
						of brass kettles were destroyed, along with the town itself.
				

				

				
					
						MEANDERING RUN, BY WHICH HARRISON MARCHED OUT.
					

					

					CHAPTER VII.
					Effect of the Battle.

					
						THE battle of Tippecanoe was the precursor of the War of 1812. It was
						a great struggle, in which civilization triumphed over barbarism. It was by far the
						greatest military engagement ever fought on Indiana soil. It effectually checked the
						Indian depredations in the Northwest, and had it not been for the War of 1812, this
						check would have been a permanent cessation of hostilities. It broke Tecumseh's
						confederation into fragments. The calm that followed, however, was deceptive, preceding,
						as it did, the storm that broke forth on the northwestern frontier during the war which
						shortly followed. Tecumseh revisited the tribes and assisted in forming an alliance of
						the British and Indians against the United States. But the defeat of his brother at
						Tippecanoe forever put at rest his dreams of a vast Indian empire. That battle, though
						national in its results, has been more particularly appreciated by the people of
						Indiana. No less than fifteen counties of that State have been named in honor of heroes
						who participated in that conflict.
					On the 9th of November General Harrison commenced his return march from the Tippecanoe
						battlefield. He traversed the same road over which he had approached The Prophet's Town,
						arriving at Fort Harrison on the 14th. The wounded, which up to this time had been
						hauled in wagons, were sent on to Vincennes by means of boats.  Captain Snelling, with his company of regulars, was left in command at Fort
						Harrison, and the army continued its return march. The volunteers from Kentucky and
						southeastern Indiana were discharged at Bosscron Creek on the 17th. The remainder of the
						army arrived at Vincennes on the following day.
					The following preamble and resolution was adopted by the Territorial Legislature on the
						18th of November: 
							"WHEREAS, The services of His Excellency, Governor Harrison, in
								conducting the army, the gallant defense made by the band of heroes under his
								immediate command, and the fortunate result of the battle fought with the
								confederacy of the Shawnee Prophet, near Tippecanoe, on the morning of the 7th
								instant, highly deserve the congratulations of every true friend to the interests of
								this Territory and the cause of humanity: "Resolved, therefore,
								That the members of the Legislative Council and House of Representatives will wait
								upon His Excellency, Governor Harrison, as he returns to Vincennes, and, in their
								own names, and in those of their constituents, welcome him home, and that General W.
								Johnston be, and he is hereby appointed, a committee to make the same known to the
								governor, at the head of the army, should unforeseen circumstances not prevent."
						
					
					Governor Harrison had been governor of the Indiana Territory since its organization, in
						the year 1800. He had been appointed to this post in pursuance of the wishes of the
						people of the Territory, successively, by Presidents Adams, Jefferson and Madison. His
						long and vigorous administration had created many enemies among the territorial
						inhabitants. His Indian policy, though perfectly justifiable, was the most prolific in
						this respect. Many persons had opposed the expedition against the town of Tippecanoe for
						humane reasons. Some of General  Harrison's personal and
						political enemies were inclined to ascribe to Colonel Boyd the honor of having saved the
						army from defeat on the field of Tippecanoe. The following address was prepared by the
						Legislative Council (the higher branch of the Legislature), and afterward adopted by the
						House of Representatives by a vote of four to three. It was delivered to Governor
						Harrison, December 5, 1811: 
							"To His Excellency, William Henry Harrison, Governor and
									Commander-in-Chief in and over Indiana Territory:
							"When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for a nation to unsheath
								the sword in defense of any portion of its citizens, and any individual of society
								becomes intrusted with the important charge of leading the army of his country into
								the field to scourge the assailants of its rights; and it is proved by the success
								of their arms, that the individual possesses superior capacity, accompanied by
								integrity and other qualities of the mind which adorn the human character in a
								superlative degree, it has a tendency to draw out the affections of the people in a
								way that must be grateful to the soldier and the man. Such is the light, sir, in
								which you have the honor to be viewed by your country, and one which the Legislative
								Council and House of Representatives (of this Territory) think you justly entitled
								to. And, sir, in duly appreciating your services, we are perfectly sensible of the
								great benefits and important services rendered by the officers and soldiers of the
								United States infantry under your command; and it is with pleasure we learn that the
								officers and militiamen of our country acted with a heroism more than could be
								reasonably calculated upon from men (such as they generally were) undisciplined and
								unaccustomed to war."
						
					

					

					On the 9th of December Governor Harrison sent the following reply to the foregoing
						address: 
							"To the Legislative Council and House of Representatives:
							FELLOW CITIZENS,--The joint address of the
								two houses, which was delivered to me on the 5th instant by your committee, was
								received with feelings which it is more easy for you to conceive than for me to
								describe. Be pleased to accept my sincerest thanks for the favorable sentiments you
								have been pleased to express of my conduct as the commander-in-chief of the
								expedition; and be assured that the good opinion of the people of Indiana and their
								representatives will ever constitute no small portion of my happiness. If any thing
								could add to my gratitude to you, gentlemen, it is the interest you take in the
								welfare of those brave fellows who fought under my command. Your memorial in their
								favor to the Congress of the United States does equal honor to the heads and hearts
								of those in whose name it is sent, and is worthy of the Legislature of the Indiana
								Territory."
						
					
					On the 4th of December the House of Representatives adopted the following resolutions:
							
							"Resolved, by the House of Representatives of Indiana Territory,
								That the thanks of this body be given to Col. John P. Boyd, the second in command,
								to the officers, non-commissioned officers, and private soldiers comprising the
								Fourth United States Regiment of infantry, together with all the United States
								troops under his command, for the distinguished regularity, coolness and undaunted
								valor, so eminently displayed by them in the late brilliant and glorious battle
								fought with the Shawnee Prophet and his confederates on the morning of the 7th of
								November, 1811, by the army under command of His Excellency, William Henry
								Harrison.
							
							"Resolved, That the said Col. John P. Boyd be requested to
								communicate the foregoing to the officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates
								belonging to the said Fourth Regiment, and that a copy of these resolutions, signed
								by the speaker of this House, be presented to the said Colonel Boyd by a committee
								of this House.
							"Resolved, by the House of Representatives of the Indiana
									Territory, That the thanks of this House be presented to Col. Luke Decker and
								Col. Joseph Bartholomew, the officers, non-commissioned officers, and men composing
								the militia corps under their command, together with the officers, non-commissioned
								officers, and soldiers composing the volunteer militia corps from the State of
								Kentucky, for the distinguished valor, heroism and bravery displayed by them in the
								brilliant battle fought with the Shawnee Prophet and his confederates on the morning
								of the 7th of November, 1811, by the army under command of His Excellency, William
								Henry Harrison."
						
					
					The following reply to these resolutions was sent to the House of Representatives by
						Colonel Boyd: 
							"United States Troops, Main Quarters, VINCENNES, December 4, 1811.
							"TO THE HONORABLE, THE HOUSE
									OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE INDIANA TERRITORY:
							
								Gentlemen,--I have the honor, for myself, the officers and
								soldiers comprising the Fourth United States Regiment, the rifle company attached,
								and the small detachment of Posey's company, to return you thanks for the
								distinguished notice you have been pleased to take of our conduct in the battle with
								the Shawnee Prophet and his confederates, on the morning of the 7th of November,
								1811, by your resolution of this day. If our efforts in discharging our duties shall
								have resulted in  advancing the public good, we are
								gratified; and to believe that we have merited this tribute of applause from the
								assembled representatives of this very respectable portion of our country, renders
								it peculiarly flattering to our honor and pride."
						
					
					Five days after the adoption of the resolutions addressed to Colonel Boyd, General
						Harrison sent the following message to the House of Representatives: 
							"Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: Your speaker has
								transmitted to me two resolutions of your House, expressive of your thanks to Col.
								John P. Boyd and the officers and soldiers of the Fourth United States Regiment, to
								Colonels Bartholomew and Decker, and the officers and privates of the militia under
								their command, also to the Kentucky volunteers, for their bravery and good conduct
								in the action of the 7th ultimo. It has excited my astonishment and deep regret to
								find that the mounted riflemen of the Territory, who so eminently distinguished
								themselves, and the squadron of dragoons, whose conduct was so highly meritorious,
								have on this occasion been totally neglected. I can not for a moment suppose,
								gentlemen, that you have any other wish than that of rendering impartial justice to
								all the corps. I can not believe that you have the smallest tincture of that
								disposition, which certainly elsewhere prevails, to disparage the conduct of the
								militia, and to deprive them of their share of the laurels which have been so dearly
								purchased by the blood of some of our best and bravest citizens. No! I can never
								suppose that it was your intention to insult the shades of Spencer, McMahan and
								Berry, by treating with contempt the corps which their deaths have contributed to
								immortalize; nor will I believe that a Daveiss, a White, a Randolph and a Mahan,
								have been so soon forgotten, or that the corps to which they belonged  and which faithfully performed its duty, was deemed
								unworthy of your notice. The omission was certainly occasioned by a mistake, but it
								is a mistake by which, if not rectified, the feelings of a whole county, and part of
								another, now abounding with widows and orphans, the unhappy consequence of the late
								action, will be wounded and insulted.
							"The victory of the 7th ult., gentlemen, was not gained by any one corps, but by
								the efforts of all; some of them, indeed, more particularly distinguished
								themselves, and of this number was the United States Regiment. In my official report
								to the secretary of war, I have mentioned them in such terms of approbation, that if
								stronger are to be found in the English language, I am unacquainted with them. But I
								have not given them all the honor of the victory. To have done so, I should have
								been guilty of a violence of truth, of justice, and of a species of treason against
								our Republic itself, whose peculiar and appropriate force is its militia. With equal
								pride and pleasure, then, do I pronounce that, notwithstanding the regular troops
								behaved as well as men ever did, many of the militia companies were in no wise
								inferior to them. Of this number were the mounted riflemen, commanded by Captain
								Spencer. To them was committed the charge of defending the right flank of the army.
								That it could not have been committed to better hands, their keeping their ground
								(indeed gaining upon the enemy) for an hour and a half with unequal arms against
								superior numbers, and amid a carnage that might have made veterans tremble, is
								sufficient evidence. Nor can I say that Captain Robb's company, after it was placed
								by the side of Spencer's, was at all inferior to it. It is certain that they kept
								their post, and their great loss shows that it was the post of danger. The  dragoons also did everything that could have been
								expected from them in the situation in which they were placed. Before they were
								mounted they certainly kept the enemy for a considerable time from entering the camp
								by the left flank; and when mounted, they remained firm at their posts, although
								exposed to the fire of the enemy at the time when they were necessarily inactive,
								and consequently placed in a situation most trying to troops. The failure of the
								charge made by Major Daveiss was owing to his having employed too small a number,
								but even with these, it is more than probable that he would have been successful, if
								he had not, unfortunately, mistaken the direction in which the principal part of the
								enemy lay. A successful charge was made by a detachment of the dragoons at the close
								of the action, and the enemy were driven into a swamp, in which they could not be
								followed.
							"You may, perhaps, gentlemen, suppose that I ought to have given you the
								information necessary to your forming a correct opinion of the merits of each corps.
								Miliitary etiquette, however, and the custom of our country forbade this. It is to
								the Government of the United States alone that a detailed account of an action is
								made. In this communication I have given you such information only as was necessary
								to enable you to correct a mistake which I am sure was unintentional on your part.
								My sense of the merits of the other corps of the army will be known when my official
								account is published."
						
					
					The House of Representatives referred Governor Harrison's message to a committee, who
						reported the following answer, which the House adopted, on the 17th of December: 

							

							"HIS EXCELLENCY, WILLIAM
									HENRY HARRISON, GOVERNOR
								AND COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE INDIANA TERRITORY:
							
								Sir,--When this House addressed that portion of the troops to
								which you refer in your communication of the 9th inst., it was not the intention of
								this body to cast a shade over any portion of the troops that were under the command
								of your Excellency in the late engagement; nor to take from the commander-in-chief
								any of that honor which he so nobly acquired in the late victory. In the joint
								address of both houses to you, their notice of the militia in general terms was
								thought sufficient, as it was out of their power to notice every man who
								distinguished himself; therefore it was considered that any evidence of respect paid
								to the commander-in-chief was an evidence of approbation of all. It is not to be
								supposed that those gentlemen, to whom it is supposed particular respect has been
								paid, have done any more than their duty, or that they distinguished themselves any
								more than private soldiers. Those gentlemen who fell, some of them did well, and
								some others had not the opportunity, being killed too early in the battle. But there
								is not an individual in this body but acknowledges that it was a well-fought battle,
								and that praise is due, but they generally agree that the laurels won, principally,
								ought to be the property of the commander-in-chief."
						
					
					The Legislature of Kentucky passed the following resolution, notwithstanding the gloom
						which overspread the State by the untimely loss of some of her bravest and most gallant
						sons: 
							" Resolved, That in the late campaign against the Indians on the
								Wabash, Gov. W. H. Harrison has, in the opinion of this Legislature, behaved like a
								hero, a patriot, and a general, and that for his cool, 
								deliberate, skillful and gallant conduct, in the late battle of Tippecanoe, he
								deserves the warmest thanks of the nation."
						
					
					The sense in which the Government regarded the importance of this victory is expressed,
						very emphatically, by President Madison in a message to Congress, December 18, 1811: 
							"While it is deeply to be lamented that so many valuable lives have been lost in
								the action which took place on the 7th ult., Congress will see with satisfaction the
								dauntless spirit and fortitude victoriously displayed by every description of troops
								engaged, as well as the collected firmness which distinguished their commander, on
								the occasion requiring the utmost exertion of valor and discipline."
						
					
				

				

				
					CHAPTER VIII.
					The Battlefield.

					
						THE field upon which the battle of Tippecanoe was fought is located in
						Tippecanoe township, of Tippecanoe county, seven miles north of the city of Lafayette,
						Ind. The land upon which the battle occurred is situated in sections twenty-three and
						twenty-six, township twenty-four, range four west, and is embraced in a tract of 200
						acres entered by John Tipton, November 13, 1829. Mr. Tipton was a native of Tennessee,
						and enlisted in Governor Harrison's army as an ensign at Corydon, Ind. He was in the
						struggle of Tippecanoe, and after that battle received promotion for his valiant
						conduct.
					General Harrison buried his dead and burned logs over their graves to conceal the spot
						of interment. The Indians, however, found the place and disinterred the fallen brave.
						General Hopkins visited the battlefield the following year, gathered the scattered
						remains and replaced them in their graves.
					In the spring of 1830, the year following the Tipton purchase, a large meeting of
						survivors of the battle and other distinguished persons, among whom was General
						Harrison, was held upon the battlefield. The bones of the dead were collected and placed
						in one grave on the tract deeded by Tipton to the State on the 25th anniversary of the
						battle of Tippecanoe, November 7, 1836. This tract embraced sixteen and fifty-five
						hundredths acres 
						
							THE BATTLE GROUND, FROM THE NORTHEAST.
						
						 (more or less). Shortly afterward it was inclosed by a
						rail fence. This spot has been a favorite place for holding great political gatherings.
						The whigs rallied there for three days during the "Tippecanoe and Tyler" campaign of
						1840, and again in 1844, when Henry Clay was their standard bearer. In 1856 it was the
						scene of rival republican and democratic rallies. The latter was addressed by John C.
						Breckinridge, of Kentucky, then a candidate of his party for the vice-presidency. The
						campaign of 1888 revived the memories of Tippecanoe, and on October 17th and 18th a
						large republican rally was again held at the Battle Ground.
					The Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1851 made provisions for the preservation of
						the battlefield. Section 10, of Article XV, of the Constitution, reads as follows: 
							"Tippecanoe Battle Ground. It shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide
								for the permanent inclosure and preservation of the Tippecanoe Battle Ground."
						
					
					This act of the constitutional convention was a great recognition of the importance of
						that historic field. In compliance therewith, it was soon afterward inclosed with a
						substantial board fence.
					By an act of the General Assembly, approved December 18, 1872, the sum of $24,100 was
						appropriated to erect an iron fence around this famous field. This duty devolved upon
						the governor, secretary, auditor and treasurer of State, who accomplished the work in
						elegant style, using only about $18,000 of the amount placed at their command. The
						remaining $6,000 was returned to the State treasury.
					An act of March 7, 1887, provided $3,500 for repainting the fence and necessary
						repairs. The act also appropriated $300 annually thereafter, which sum is used as  salary of custodian of the grounds and for needed repairs.
						The commissioners of Tippecanoe county were made the supervisors of this work, and have
						expended about $2,500 of the amount appropriated. It is now proposed to erect a building
						upon the grounds, to be occupied by the custodian.
					A village was founded immediately north of the battlefield, and bore the name of
						Harrisonville until the construction of the Lafayette, New Albany & Chicago
						Railroad in 1853, when that place, with additions, was incorporated as Battle Ground
						City, which is now the home of about 500 souls. The place is noted in religious circles
						as the camp-meeting ground for the Northwest Indiana Conference of the Methodist
						Episcopal Church. Many religious meetings have been held there almost as strong,
						numerically, as the great political assemblies for which the site has been so noted in
						the past.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER IX.
					Tippecanoe in Politics.

					
						AFTER the close of Gen. William Henry Harrison's great campaign
						against the capital of the confederacy there followed a brief cessation of hostilities.
						The renown already won by the Hero of Tippecanoe was sufficient upon which to rest his
						fame, but subsequent events multiplied his victories and magnified the honor of his
						name.
					His life, from boyhood to old age, represents a panorama of activity, rich in civil,
						military and political honors. He was born in a great age (February 9, 1773), and was
						merging into manhood before he departed from the scenes of his birth (Berkeley, Charles
						City county, Va.). The thrilling events of the war for independence and the organization
						of the national Government must have had a great effect upon his youthful mind, and, no
						doubt, did much to mold it for the patriotic services of his life.
					His father, Benjamin Harrison, signer of the Declaration of Independence, was in good
						circumstances, and gave his children the benefit of a good education, which the subject
						of this sketch received from the common schools of Virginia and from Hampton Sydney
						College. From this institution he graduated. In accordance with the wishes of his
						father, he commenced the study of medicine under Dr. Benjamin Rush, of Philadelphia, who
						was also  a signer of the Declaration of Independence. In
						1791 his father died, leaving him under the guardianship of Robert Morris, the
						distinguished financier of the Revolution.
					Young Harrison determined upon a change of employment, and upon the counsel of
						President Washington joined the army in the Northwest. His guardian and most of his
						friends objected to this, believing his constitution not strong enough to stand the
						hardships of Indian warfare. Washington got him a position as ensign in the First
						Regiment of United States infantry, and with it he journeyed on foot across the
						mountains to Pittsburg and joined the army at Fort Washington (present site of
						Cincinnati) just after its defeat upon the Miami. Young Harrison, as a reward for
						meritorious conduct, was soon made a lieutenant. The Government sent another expedition
						against the Indians under the intrepid General Wayne, who, like his predecessor, General
						St. Clair, was of revolutionary renown. Wayne built Fort Recovery upon the old
						battlefield where St. Clair had been worsted. At this place several skirmishes occurred,
						in which young Harrison participated. The army marched from Fort Recovery to the
						junction of the Auglaize and Maumee rivers, where Fort Wayne was erected. Near this
						place, upon the 20th of August, 1794, a hard-fought battle occurred. Two thousand Indian
						warriors were concealed in ambush when General Wayne came upon them. The battle was a
						telling victory for civilization over barbarism; a triumph of intelligence over
						ignorance. It forced the Indians to cease their murderous depredations. For his conduct
						in this campaign Lieutenant Harrison was given a captaincy and the command of Fort
						Washington.
					Mr. Harrison was soon married to one of the daughters of John Cleves Symmes, one of the
						founders of the Miami  settlement, and upon a portion of
						whose land is now situated Cincinnati. He was a man of strictly temperate habits. He saw
						the evil effects of liquor while in the army, and set an example of total abstinence
						before his comrades. In 1791 he became a member of an abolition society in Virginia, the
						object of which was to better the condition of the slaves and secure their emancipation
						when that could be accomplished by legal means.
					Captain Harrison remained in command of Fort Washington until April, 1798, when he
						resigned in order to accept the secretaryship of the Northwest Territory. In the
						following year he was chosen the delegate to Congress for the Northwest Territory, and
						attended one session. His labors proved to be of great value in the development of the
						vast territory which he represented. According to the law at that time the public domain
						could not be sold in tracts of less than 4,000 acres. Mr. Harrison secured the enactment
						of a law by which the public land was sold in alternate sections of 640 and 320 acres;
						this was not as much as he desired, but was all that could be obtained at that time.
					When the Northwest Territory was divided and the Territories of Ohio and Indiana
						erected, Mr. Harrison was appointed governor of the latter, and was subsequently
						reappointed by Presidents Jefferson and Madison. This was before "rotation in office"
						came into style. In this position he remained for twelve years, from 1801 to 1813. In
						addition to this trust he was soon made governor of the Upper Louisiana Territory, so
						that he ruled with the power of a king over a vast domain. This power was never abused.
						He had innumerable opportunities for personal gain through his official capacity, but
						did not take advantage of them in any way. He negotiated treaties with the Indians
						during his gubernatorial term 
						
							A BATTLE-SCARRED OAK.
						
						 and obtained for the Government more than 60,000,000 acres
						of land over which civilization has since spread. No man did more for the advancement of
						our territorial development than Governor Harrison. His transactions were perfectly
						clean. Dishonesty in official capacity never entered his mind. A foreigner named
						McIntosh accused him of defrauding the Indians in the treaty at Fort Wayne. Governor
						Harrison demanded that the charge be investigated by a court of justice. The court not
						only vindicated his honor but fined McIntosh $4,000. This money was divided by Governor
						Harrison--one-third was given to the children of deceased soldiers and the remainder
						returned to McIntosh as an act of mercy.
					During his term as governor of Indiana Territory occurred the rise and overthrow of
						Tecumseh's confederacy, which is detailed in previous chapters.
					In 1812 Governor Harrison was given a command in the Kentucky militia, but was soon
						after made commander-in-chief of the United States Army of the Northwest. General
						Harrison was besieged in Fort Meigs early in 1813 by Proctor. The assailants were
						compelled to raise the siege after it had been kept up by them for eight days. After
						this Harrison quartered himself at Sandusky Bay, where he remained until after Perry's
						victory upon Lake Erie. He then moved across the lake to attack Proctor and Tecumseh,
						who were then in command of a motley force of British and Indians at Fort Malden. The
						enemy fled upon Harrison's approach, but were overtaken at the river Thames, where, on
						the 5th of October, 1813, a decisive American victory was won. The British troops were
						soon surrounded. Proctor escaped on horseback. The Indians fought bravely, but Tecumseh
						being shot, they fled in confusion. This battle terminated the war in the West. After
						it, the command of General Harrison being  limited by the
						secretary of war, General Armstrong, to the Eighth military district, he resigned and
						retired to his farm at North Bend, Ohio, to engage in the peaceful pursuits of
						agriculture. Congress passed the following resolution, acknowledging the invaluable
						services of General Harrison: 
							"Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
									States of America in Congress assembled, That the thanks of Congress be and
								they are hereby presented to Major-general William Henry Harrison and Isaac Shelby,
								late governor of Kentucky, and through them to the officers and men of their
								command, for their gallant and good conduct in defeating the combined British and
								Indian forces under Major-general Proctor, on the Thames in Upper Canada, on the
								fifth day of October, 1813, capturing the British army, with their baggage, camp
								equipage and artillery; and, that the President of the United States be requested to
								cause two gold medals to be struck, emblematical of this triumph, and presented to
								General Harrison and Isaac Shelby, late governor of Kentucky."
						
					
					While General Harrison was governor of Indiana Territory, he concluded thirteen
						treaties with various Indian tribes. In 1814 he was appointed, along with Governor
						Shelby, of Kentucky, and General Cass, to treat with the Indians. A new and important
						treaty was negotiated at Greenville, Ohio. In 1815 Mr. Harrison concluded an important
						treaty with nine Indian tribes at Detroit.
					In 1816 Harrison was elected by his district to fill a vacancy in the national House of
						Representatives. He was relected to the next Congress, and in 1818 declined to be a
						candidate.
					In 1819 General Harrison was chosen a member of the Ohio State Senate, in which
						position he remained for two years. In 1824 he became one of the United States  Senators from Ohio. In this body he served his country as an
						able legislator for four years. In 1828 he was appointed by President Adams minister to
						the United States of Columbia, but was recalled upon the accession of President
						Jackson.
					When he returned home he retired to his farm at North Bend, Ohio, and devoted his
						attention to agriculure for about ten years. In 1836 he was the whig candidate for
						president, but was defeated by Martin Van Buren, the democratic candidate. The National
						Whig Convention assembled at Harrisburg, Pa. December 5, 1839, re-nominated General
						Harrison for president, along with John Tyler, of Virginia, for vice-president.
						President Van Buren was a candidate for relection. The whigs during this campaign
						cried: "Hurrah for Tippecanoe and Tyler, too!" The fact that General Harrison had lived
						in a log cabin was alluded to as a reproach. They said he lived in a log cabin and had
						nothing but hard cider to drink. His friends were quick to take advantage of these
						remarks, and created a popular uprising in favor of their candidate. "Hard cider" became
						a party watchword. The campaign was distinguished for long processions, of which log
						cabins formed an important feature. Harrison was elected by an overwhelming majority.
						The electoral vote was: Harrison, 234; Van Buren, 60.
					During this campaign, on the 29th, 30th and 31st days of May, 1840, a great rally was
						held on the site of the Battle Ground. It was attended by a vast concourse of people
						from every section of the Union and addressed by many able orators of the whig party.
						Cattle, hogs, sheep and fowls were slaughtered in large numbers. This was the largest
						political gathering held in Indiana up to that date. Enthusiasm was at fever height, and
						the rallying cry of the whigs echoed throughout the land.

					

					General Harrison was inaugurated president on the 4th of March, 1841. The oath of
						office was administered by Chief Justice Taney. Immediately after inauguration President
						Harrison was beset by a throng of office seekers, composed of political friends and
						supporters, whose desires he was anxious to gratify. He therefore gave himself up to
						incessant labor. The most important event of his brief administration was the calling,
						on March 17th, of an extra session of Congress to meet on the 31st of May, to consider
						the financial condition of the country. Mr. Harrison's administration was a short one,
						lasting but a single month. His final illness was of eight days' duration, from which he
						was relieved by death upon the 4th of April, 1841, when entering upon the sixty-ninth
						year of his age. The vice-president, John Tyler, took the oath of office as president
						and entered upon his duties on the 6th of the same month. Harrison's presidential term
						is the shortest in the history of our Government. He was the first man to die while
						performing the duties of that position. His last words were uttered when thinking he was
						addressing his successor. He said: "Sir, I wish you to understand the principles of the
						government. I wish them carried out. I ask nothing more." The grief produced by this
						National calamity was great and profound. The funeral took place in Washington City on
						the 7th of April. Funeral ceremonies were also held in most of the cities and towns of
						the Union. The 14th of May was designated by President Tyler as one to be observed with
						fasting and prayer. The remains of President Harrison lie buried at his home, North
						Bend, fifteen miles west of Cincinnati. No monument or slab marks his resting-place, but
						history has built for him a more enduring monument than massive columns of marble or
						stone.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER X.
					The Campaign of 1888.

					
						THE precedent established by the American people in the early days of
						the Republic by the elevation of military heroes to the presidency, has been exemplified
						in many periods of our Nation's history. After Washington, Andrew Jackson was the next
						notable hero of war to be called to the chief office in the Nation's power to bestow.
						Gen. William Henry Harrison responded to the same impulsive call, and later on, Gen.
						Zachary Taylor, and the world-famed Grant met the honors of the presidency. While some
						of these rulers were not statesmen of the highest rank, yet their distinguishments
						gained on the battlefield when the independence or preservation of the Union was at
						stake, were enough to honor and glorify, and the Nation was safe in the hands of such
						heroic defenders.
					The campaign of 1888 was one in which the achievements of war played no unimportant
						part. While the great issues of that political contest were founded mainly upon civil
						questions, the custom of honoring the soldier was given renewed impetus by the naming of
						many for political leaders who served their country on the field of battle.
					Gen. Benjamin Harrison, the presidential candidate of the republican party in that
						campaign, though he performed well his part in the Civil War, and won enviable  distinction, it may be said of him that his achievements are
						more extensive in civil affairs of the Government than in military pursuits. His
						nomination served to revive the memories of the campaign of 1840 and brighten the minds
						of Americans in history pertaining to the life and deeds of his illustrious grandfather.
						The field of Tippecanoe, became, indeed, the Mecca of republican politics. Its incidents
						were reviewed in the press, and spoken from the stump, and the campaign of "Tippecanoe
						and Tyler, too," emulated in many respects. The year was noted for its many mammoth
						political gatherings and the great enthusiasm which prevailed. President Cleveland was
						the candidate of the democracy for reflection and Judge Allen G. Thurman, of Ohio, was
						the nominee for the vice-presidency. Hon. Levi P. Morton, of New York, was General
						Harrison's running mate. Interest in the tariff and other National issues grew more
						intense as the campaign neared the close. The city of Indianapolis, the home of General
						Harrison, presented an animated scene. Each day visitors thronged the Harrison mansion.
						Many and effective were the speeches delivered to the numerous delegations by their
						standard bearer. Harrison and Morton carried every Northern State except New Jersey and
						Connecticut, and were triumphantly elected, receiving 233 electoral votes out of a total
						of 401.
					To the honor of his ancestry General Harrison has added much by his ability and high
						character. He was born at North Bend, Hamilton county, Ohio, in the home of his
						grandfather, General William Henry Harrison, on the 20th of August, 1833. General
						Benjamin Harrison is the third in his line who has borne that name. He graduated with
						honor from Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, at the age of eighteen. He studied law with
						Hon. Bellamy Storer, in Cincinnati, and in 1854 removed to Indianapolis, and began his
						life 
						
							GENERAL BENJAMIN HARRISQN.
						
						 work. He soon demonstrated his ability, and came into
						public notice through an employment in a legislative investigation by the then
						democratic governor of the State, Joseph A. Wright. His career as a lawyer from that
						time has been a brilliant professional success. He is a lawyer of preminent qualities,
						and is regarded as one of the leaders of the Indiana bar. Being an ardent republican and
						a speaker of the Lincoln campaign of 1860, he was the republican candidate for reporter
						of the supreme court, and was elected to that office on the ticket with Henry S. Lane
						and Oliver P. Morton.
					In July, 1862, President Lincoln issued a call for 300,000 men, and Governor Morton
						requested General Harrison to assist in recruiting. Under a commission as second
						lieutenant he raised one company, was elected captain, and then others, until the
						Seventieth Regiment was completed; he was then commissioned colonel, and took his
						regiment immediately into service in Kentucky and Tennessee. In the Atlanta campaign
						Colonel Harrison's command was assigned to Ward's brigade of the Third Division of the
						Twentieth Corps, and participated in the whole of that historic service, its commander
						receiving the highest honors as a soldier. On the 15th of June, 1864, Colonel Harrison's
						regiment was assigned to lead the assault of Resaca, and most gallantly did it do its
						work, capturing the enemy's lines and four guns. At Peach Tree Creek Colonel Harrison
						was assigned to command the brigade, and gained such a signal victory as to call forth
						praise and commendation from his superior officers.
					In 1864 General Harrison was relected reporter of the supreme court of Indiana. At the
						expiration of his term of office he returned to the practice of law, bearing his full
						part, however, in all the political campaigns that intervened. In 1876 he declined the
						use of his name as  a nominee for governor, but Mr. Orth
						having resigned from the ticket in the midst of the campaign, the republican central
						committee, in deference to the universal demand of the party, nominated General Harrison
						to the vacancy, but he was defeated by James D. Williams.
					In 1880 the republicans carried the State and the Legislature, and in acknowledgment of
						the services of General Harrison, and his recognized leadership of the party, he was
						elected United States senator. At the expiration of his term as United States senator,
						he was confronted with the most remarkable odds and defeated in his contest for
						relection by Hon. David Turpie, who received a majority of two votes, although the
						republican State ticket received a plurality of 3,500 and the aggregate majority on
						their legislative candidates reached nearly 10,000.
					Gen. Benjamin Harrison is in the prime of life, and in full vigor of both body and
						mind. He is a christian man of the best type; a citizen of notable integrity of
						character; a man of clean life and reputation; a model husband and father; indeed, an
						American without fear and without reproach; one in every way worthy the mantle of his
						illustrious and honored ancestor, the hero of "The Battle of Tippecanoe."
				

				THE END.



			
		

	
