
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Biederwolf, William E. (William Edward),
							1867-1939.. History of the One hundred and sixty-first regiment, Indiana volunteer
					infantry. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8228
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		


			

			
				
					
						COLONEL WINFIELD T. DURBIN.
						
					
				
			


			

			

				
					HISTORY
						OF THE One Hundred and Sixty-first REGIMENT INDIANA
						VOLUNTEER INFANTRY
				

				

				By
					W. E. BIEDERWOLF
					CHAPLAIN OF THE REGIMENT

				

				
					1899
					WILSON, HUMPHREYS & CO.
					LOGANSPORT, IND.
				
			


			

			

				Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1899, in the office
					of the Librarian of Congress, at Wishington, D. C., by W. E. Biederwolf.
			


			

			

				Dedication.

				

				To the
					Men who Carried the Guns this
						Work is Sincerely Dedicated by their friend,
				The Chaplain.
			





			


			

			

				PREFACE.

				


				A preface is not an apology; a book that needs an apology ought never be written. Every
					man of a regiment is a part of its life, and to be a soldier is an experience that comes,
					to most men but once and makes an important chapter in the history of every man thus
					privileged. Who, that was there, can ever forget the life we led together; our camps, our
					marches, our reviews, the life of a day and the evening till taps! These will be
					remembered without a written history, but there are offices which only a written record
					can fulfill; that of acquainting the regiment's friends with the history so familiar to
					its members and of furnishing exact historical and numerical data, the value of which
					increases with time, and the perusal of which, when memory is less distinct, will make it
					all happen again as it did in '98 and '99. The preparation of such a work is no easy task,
					and all the more difficult when the author has kept no diary or chronicle of events. The
					information herein contained has been gathered from every available source, but every
					detail fully verified before giving it place in these pages. For the hearty co-operation
					of his fellow officers the fullest appreciation is here expressed by him who has
					undertaken this work. Some have rendered a material aid without which the present value of
					the book would have been impossible. Special acknowledgment is due to Lieutenant Goodrich
					for his share in the preparation of the Savannah chapter, and to Dr. George B. Jones for
					like service in the section devoted to the medical department. Special thanks are also due
					to Captain  W. T. Stott and to Lieutenants Patton, Welch
					and Owens, and also to Private E. M. Blake of Company K.
				In producing the company roster such as adhered to the form given them will show first
					the original roster in so far as promotions would allow, it being equally desirable to
					present in due form the roll of officers as they appeared at the date of mustering out.
					Where cuts are missing, it is simply because parties failed to furnish them after repeated
					solicitation, or because they were not to be had, which was the case with several among
					the dead. A few photos were poor, but the best possible was done with them. With the hope
					that this volume will bring pleasant reminders to all it is sent to press.
				W. E. BIEDERWOLF, Chaplain 161st I. V. I.
				Monticello, Indiana, June 1, 1899.
			

			
			
			
			
			
				INDEX.
				
				
				
				
				
				Chapter I--Organization 17
				
				
					
					
				Chapter II--Camp Mount 23
				
				
					
									
				Chapter III--En Route to Jacksonville 48
				
				
					
					
				Chapter IV--Camp Cuba Libre, August 14, '98-September 30, '98 60
				
				
				
								
				Chapter V--Camp Cuba Libre, October 1-23, '98 78
				
									
					
					
				Chapter VI--Camp Onward 91
				
				
					
					
				Chapter VII--Havana to Camp Columbia 115
				
				
				
				
				Chapter VIII--Camp Columbia, December 17, '98-January 31, '99 125
								
					
				
								
				Chapter IX--Camp Columbia, February 1, '99-March 31, '99 151
				
				
				
								
				Chapter X--The Departure, Voyage and Arrival 182
				
				
					
					
				Chapter XI-Mustering Out Month, Camp Homeward 193
				
							
				
				
				First Battalion--K, M, A, E 231
				
				
					
				
				Second Battalion--B, I, F, D 287
				
					
				
				
				Third Battalion--C, G, H, L 345
				
					
				
				
				Medical Department 405
				
					
				
				
				History of the Medical Department 410
				
					
				
				
				Regimental Band 425
				
					
				
				
				Roster of Regimental Band 428
				
					
				
								
				Organization of Regimental Band 429
				
					
					
					
				Bugle and Drum Corps 431
				
					
					
				
				Roster of Bugle and Drum Corps 431
				
					
					
					
				Roll of Honor 435
				
					
					
				
				History of Company A 263
				
					
					
				
				Roster of Company A 267
				
					
					
					
				History of Company B 294
				
					
					
					
				Roster of Company B 298
				
					
					
					
				History of Company C 353
				
					
					
					
				Roster of Company C 360
				
					
					
					
				History of Company D 333
				
					
					
					
				Roster of Company D 339
				
					
					
					
				History of Company E 275
				
					
					
					
				Roster of Company E 281
				
					
					
					
				History of Company F 320
				
					
					
					
				Roster of Company F 324
				
					
					
					
				History of Company G 369
				
					
					
					
				Roster of Company G 375
				
					
					
					
				History of Company H 383
				
					
					
									
				Roster of Company H 385
				
								
				
				
				
					
					
				History of Company I 306
				
					
					
					
				Roster of Company I 311
				
					
					
					
				History of Company K 239
				
					
				
				
				Roster of Company K 241
				
					
					
					
				History of Company L 396
				
					
					
									
				Roster of Company L 398
				
					
					
					
				History of Company M 250
				
					
					
					
				Roster of Company M 255
				
					
				
				
				

				
				PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS.
					
				
				Anderson, James L 393
				
				

				
				Anheire, Anthony A 304
				
					
				
				
				Backus, Victor M 232
				
					
				
				
				Biederwolf, William E 225
				
					
				
				
				Brown, Denver 444
				
					
					
					
				Brunt, John R 222
				
					
					
					
				Buchanan, Richard W 331
				
					
					
					
				Caldwell, George H 383
				
					
					
				
				Crooker, William W 273
				
					
					
					
				Comstock, Paul 317
				
					
					
					
				Cosby, Charles E 335
				
					
					
					
				Dexter, Jacob W 447
				
					
					
					
				Dority, Charles E 395
				
					
					
									
				Drapier, William H 319
				
					
					
					
				Durbin, Winfield T 216
				
					
				
								
				Durbin, Fletcher M 262
				
					
					
					
				Durbin, W. T., and Staff 21
				
					
				
								
				Espey, James E 417
				
				
					
					
				Everson, Charles 447
				
					
					
					
				Fitch, George W 249
				
					
					
					
				Fortune, James W 272
				
					
					
					
				Gerrish, Millard F 408
				
					
				
								
				Goodrich, George E 350
				
					
					
									
				Gould, Andrew 450
				
					
					
					
				Graham, Alonzo M 449
				
					
					
					
				Guthrie, William 303
				
					
				
								
				Gwinn, James M 380
				
				 
					
					
				Hudgins, Thomas J 349
				
					
					
					
				Jackson, Cyrus A 332
				
					
					
					
				Johnson, August H. W 261
				
												
			
						
					
					
					
				Kepperling, George 443
				
					
					
					
				Kimmel, Elmer E 318
				
					
					
					
				Kuns, Clarence D 441
				
					
					
					
				Lewis, John J 440
				
					
					
									
				Megrew, Harold C 288
				
				
					
					
				Menzies, Winston 290
				
					
				
								
				Meyers, James I 368
				
					
					
					
				Mount, James A 44
				
					
					
					
				McCauley, Edward A 274
				
					
					
					
				Ogborn, Albert D 366
				
					
					
					
				Olds, Lee M 346
				
					
					
					
				Owens, Temple H 238
				
					
					
					
				Parkhurst, Layton M 333
				
					
					
									
				Patton, Henry B 381
				
				
					
				
				Peterson, Eli W 394
				
					
					
					
				Pittman, Charles M 369
				
					
					
					
				Puhlman, Ernest R 439
				
					
					
					
				Reynolds, Ivy L 352
				
					
					
				
				Saltzgaber, Baird G 19
				
				
					
									
				Silverthorne, George M 260
				
					
					
					
				Smith, Charles C 237
				
					
				
								
				Smith, Will M 322
				
					
					
					
				Smith, Wickliff 406
				
					
					
					
				Starr, W. Thompson 19
				
					
					
					
				Stille, Henry 443
				
					
					
					
				Stivers, Wallace D 442
				
					
					
					
				Stott, Wilfred T 236
				
					
					
					
				Tichenor, Oliver M 220
				
					
					
					
				Trimble, Charles 448
				
					
					
					
				Turner, Joseph F 446
				
					
					
					
				Ward, John R 305
				
					
					
					
				Weaver, William G 445
				
					
					
					
				Welch, Percy 293
				
					
					
					
				West, George A 248
				
					
					
					
				Williams, Asa E 292
				
					
					
					
				Williams, Ernest S 426
				
					
					
					
				Wilson, James 410
				
									
				 
				 
				
				Company A 264
				
									
				Non-Commissioned Officers 266
				
				
				
									
					
				
				Company B 295
				
								
				Non-Commissioned Officers 297
				
					
				
					
					
					
				Company C 355
				
									
				Non-Commissioned Officers 357
				
					
					
				
					
				
					
					
				Company D 334
				
										
				Sergeants 336
				
							
				
				Corporals 338
				
				
				
					

				
				Company E 276
				
				
					
				Sergeants 278
								
					
				
				Corporals 280
				
				
				
					
					
					
				Company F 321
				
				
					
				Sergeants 323
				
					
					
				Corporals 325
				
				
				
									
								
					
			 	Company G 370
				
					
					
				Sergeants 372
				
				
					
				Corporals 374
				
				
				
					
					
					
				Company H 384
				
				
					
				Sergeants 386
				
				
					
				Corporals 388
				
				
				
					
					
				
				Company I 307
				
				
					
				Non-Commissioned Officers 309
				
				
				
					

				
				Company K 239
				
				
					
				Sergeants 242
				
				
					
				Corporals 244
				
				
				
					

				
				Company L 397
				
				
				
				Sergeants 399
				
				
					
				Corporals 401
				
				
				
					
					
				
				Company M 251
				
				
				
				Non-Commissioned Officers 253
				
				
				
					
					
				
				A Cuban Camp 122
				
				

				
				A Mixed Race 146
				
				
					
					
				Backus Garbage Burner 73
				
				

				
				Barb Wire Defense 123
				
				

				
				Barn--Camp Cuba Libre 65
				
				

				
				Bastile--Camp Cuba Libre 229
				
					
					
					
				Block House 124
				
					
				
								
				Bonaventure 104
				
					
					
								
				Bugle and Drum Corps 432
				
					
					
								
				Camp Airing 172
					
					
					
								
				Camp Columbia 139
				
									
					
								
				Company G Street by Moonlight 175
				
					
					
								
				Company Street in Camp Cuba	Libre 61
				
					
					
								
				Commissary--Camp Cuba Libre 62
				
					
					
								
				Cuban Plowman 147
				
					
					
					
				
					
					
				Fatigue Duty--Camp Mount 24
				
					
				
				
				Fumigated Gloves 191
				
					
					
								
				Going Aboard Transport "Mobile" 108
				
				

				
				Going on Board the "Logan" 185
				
				

				
				Government Warehouse at Quemados 169
				
					
					
								
				Graves 437
				
					
					
								
				Guard Mount--Camp Columbia 39
				
					
					
								
				Hangman's Tree 178
				
					
					
				
				Headquarters--Camp Onward 92
				
					
					
								
				Human Bone Yard 160
				
					
					
								
				Kangaroo Court 198
				
					
					
								
				Live Curios 184
				
					
					
					
				"Logan" 186
				
					
					
					
				Medical Officers and Helpers 420
				
					
					
								
				Midway 170
				
					
					
					
				"Mobile"--Off for Cuba 109
				
					
					
					
				Monument 143
				
					
					
								
				Morro Castle 111
				
					
					
								
				Next 176
				
					
					
								
				Off for the Mail 171
				
							
				
									
				Packing Up--Camp Onward 106
				
					
					
					
				Passing in Review--New Year's Day 135
				
					
					
				
				Post Exchange at Camp Onward 83
				
					
					
					
				Prisoners Cleaning Camp 138
				
					
					
				
				Regimental Band 427
				
					
					
					
				Regimental Hospital at Camp Columbia 141
				
					
					
					
				Relieving the Guard--Camp Mount 27
				
					
					
				
				Ruined Estate 148
				
					
					
				
				San Jose Espigon (Wharf) 183
				
					
					
				
				Sea-Sickness on the "Logan" 187
				
					
					
				
				Second Battalion, Skirmish Drill--Camp Cuba Libre 85
				
					
					
				
				Sentinel on Duty--Camp Cuba Libre 71
				
					
					
				
				Soupee! Soupee! Soup! Soup! 136
				
					
					
				
				Storm Scene at Third Division Hospital 79
				
					
					
				
				The Maine Graves 158
				
					
					
				
				The Way Mother Used to Do 137
				
					
					
					
				Vento Springs 167
				
					
					
				
				Wagon Train on its Way to Camp 113
				
					
					
				
				Waiting for the Train--Camp-Breaking at Camp Cuba Libre 89
				
					
					
				
				Wreck of the "Maine" 156
				
					
									
				
				
				
			
		




		

			

			
				History of the One hundred and sixty-first regiment, Indiana volunteer
					infantry
				

					
						CHAPTER I.
						
						
						ORGANIZATION.
					


					The war with Spain was on in earnest; Manilla had fallen, several Spanish prizes had
						been taken at sea, and every preparation was being made for pushing a vigorous campaign
						into Cuba. Already two hundred thousand troops were in the service of the United States,
						when President McKinley, on the 25th day of May, 1898, issued a second call for
						seventy-five thousand more volunteers. Indiana could have furnished them all, but after
						her other regiments, with companies averaging eighty-six men each, had been recruited to
						their full quota of one hundred and six men it was her further privilege to furnish one
						full regiment and an additional two companies of colored men. There was at once the
						greatest competition and the greatest diligence on the part of influential friends to
						secure one of the twelve coveted places in the new regiment which, in order, was to be
						the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry. Letters poured in upon the
						governor from every corner of the state telling of companies formed and ready to move at
						notice, but desiring to give the congressional districts a somewhat equal representation
						in this matter the twelve companies now composing the regiment were selected. Of this
						selection the companies were notified by the governor on the 24th day of June. The
						original intention of bringing them to the capital, a company at a time, for examination
						was abandoned as the urgency of the hour demanded that all should come as soon  as possible. Accordingly all companies were ordered to
						repair at once to the state fairgrounds at Indianapolis. The first company, "H,"
						reported at 12:40 June 30. The others in quick order, Company "I" entering the grounds
						last at 4:30, July 5th.
					The man whom Governor Mount had chosen to be colonel was Winfield T. Durbin, of
						Anderson. He was sitting in the factory of the Diamond Paper Company, of which he was at
						that time general manager, when he was 'phoned from Indianapolis by Colonel Charles E.
						Wilson, military secretary to Governor Mount, asking him to come at once to the capital.
						Upon his arrival he was informed by Secretary Wilson of the governor's desire. It was
						his first intimation of such a decision and the following day (Sunday) he called at the
						governor's home and there gave his promise to lead the One Hundred and Sixty-first
						Indiana to its destiny in the conflict then on.
					Doctor Wickliff Smith, of Delphi, was called to the position of surgeon, and Drs.
						Milliard F. Gerrish, of Seymour, and James Wilson, of Wabash, were chosen assistant
						surgeons. The surgeons were examined by the State Board of Medical Examinations, Friday,
						24th, and were the first of the officers to be mustered into the service (June 25th) as
						it was essential to begin at once the physical examination of the men. Every man had
						been required to pass one, and the majority two, similar examinations at the place of
						his enlistment, but the final and more severe test of acceptance was to be made by the
						regimental surgeons themselves. The examinations began Tuesday, July 5th, and lasted
						eleven days, the highest number of men examined in any one day being two hundred and
						eighty-six. This examination resulted in a further rejection of fourteen per cent. of
						the men, and gave to the state as sound and as healthy a body of soldiers as ever
						volunteered their service  The following statistics,
						taken toward the close of their period of service and read in their presence by the
						colonel at regimental review, will be of interest and may be appropriately inserted here
						as the regimental makeup was in general the same throughout its period of service.
					The average age was twenty-six. The average height was five feet eight inches. The
						average weight was one hundred and forty-nine pounds. Two hundred and ninety-six were
						farmers, one hundred and eighteen were clerks, three hundred and sixty-two were common
						laborers, four hundred and thirteen were skilled laborers, forty-seven were professional
						men, twenty-five were merchants; twelve hundred and sixty-five were American born,
						fifty-four foreign; one hundred and twenty-eight were married and eleven hundred and
						ninety-one were single.
					On June 28th Baird G. Saltzgaber, of Lebanon, Indiana, a recent graduate of Wabash
						College and former 
							W. THOMPSON STARR.
						
						
							BAIRD G. SALTZGABER.
						 graduate of Kenyon Military Academy, was mustered as quartermaster sergeant,
						and on July 5th W. Thompson Starr, of Richmond, Indiana, class of '98, Michigan Military
							 Academy, Orchard Lake, Michigan, was mustered as
						regimental sergeant major.
					On July 11th, at 4:30 P. M., four companies, A,
						B, C, D, each member of whom had signed the muster-in roll, were mustered. On the same
						date Harold C. Megrew, of Indianapolis, was mustered as major and Oliver M. Tichenor, of
						Princeton, as first lieutenant and regimental adjutant. The following day, July 12th,
						four other companies, E, F, G, H, were mustered and the remaining companies, I, K, L, M,
						on the succeeding day, July 13th.
					There was some unavoidable delay in the appointment of Matt R. Peterson as major. The
						position had been tendered Lieutenant Bundy, of the Third Infantry, who was at that time
						with his regiment at Santiago, Cuba. Being impossible to await his reply, owing to the
						destruction of the cables, it became necessary to make another appointment, which was
						given to First Lieutenant M. R. Peterson, of the Sixth United States Infantry, who was
						at that time on duty in the quartermaster department at Indianapolis. Lieutenant
						Waterman, of the Eighth United States Cavalry, who was the United States mustering
						officer, refused to muster the regiment as a whole until such appointment was made.
						Accordingly, on July 15th, in the evening about 6:30 o'clock, the whole regiment was
						massed to the east of the Administration Hall and in the presence of numerous friends
						and visitors who were there to witness the ceremony, Colonel Durbin and such of his
						staff as had not yet taken the oath were mustered into the service of the United States.
						Besides the colonel there was Victor M. Backus, of Indianapolis, who was mustered as
						lieutenant-colonel, and William E. Biederwolf, of Logansport, who was mustered as
						chaplain. This completed the roll of staff officers with the exception of John R. Brunt,
						of Anderson, who had been mustered as first lieutenant and 
						
							COLONEL DURBIN AND STAFF
						
						 quartermaster on June 30th, in order that he might begin
						officially the administration of his required and urgent duties.
					It will not be out of place to have here said by one who came in closest daily contact
						with the men and who learned to know their individual history and character, that the
						quality of the regiment was exceptionally fine. The men occupying the most responsible
						positions were men of experience and of the best caliber, and the official body as a
						whole may be safely characterized as one of exceptional character and capacity. Among
						the enlisted men were hundreds belonging to Indiana's best families; young men of
						learning, of profession, of wealth and of social standing, and while in any and every
						such body of twelve hundred men there is much and much-to-be-regretted immoral conduct,
						yet the record of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana during the time of its service
						shows it to be a regiment of unusual high moral character for a military
						organization.
				


				

				
					
						CHAPTER II.
						
						
						CAMP MOUNT.
					

					June 30, '98--August 11, '98.
					The State Fair ground was admirably adapted as a place for holding the regiment during
						the completion of its organization and preparation to report for duty wherever sent.
						Headquarters and the dispensary were established in the administration hall and here for
						many days was a rush of business of a character such as the place had never seen before.
						The fine art building was used as the commissary and quartermaster department and one of
						the pavilions near by as a shelter for the guard.
					To each company as it reported was assigned one of the large stock buildings. The two
						colored companies, A and B, commanded by Captains Jacob M. Porter and John J. Buckner,
						who, by the way, were the first colored captains ever commissioned, were sheltered in
						the barns nearest the main entrance to the grounds.
					The companies were, for convenience at the first, lettered according to the order of
						their arrival; they were met at the entrance by Lieutenant-Colonel Backus, who escorted
						them to their quarters, and at once, or as soon as possible thereafter, they were in
						line at the quartermaster's department for some of the articles such as would be
						immediately necessary for the new mode of life into which they were then to be
						initiated.
					They were given axes and spades and picks and rakes and wondered what it meant; then to
						each company were  also issued one hundred and six
						blankets, meat-cans, knives, forks, spoons, tin-cups, two Meyers cooking ranges with 
							FATIGUE DUTY.
						 utensils complete, one cord of wood, and one day's rations. Some of the
						companies had a little of camp experience at home, sleeping in barns taking a few meals
						picnic style, and more from the well loaded tables of their towns people, but when they
						opened those marvelous double-sided, self-sealing meat-cans to receive their first army
						cooked food and looked into the depths of those delicate quart coffee cups, washed their
						own tin-dishes, made up their own beds of boards and straw, then they knew they were
						soldiers; and so for twenty-six days they lived together, twelve large families in
						twelve large barns. Here were formed the first impressions of something, but only
						something, of what army life really was. Here the rich and poor, the college graduate,
						the mechanic, the laborer and the fellow who was "doin' nothin" touched elbows at night
						and here were formed many of those friendships such as hallow the memory of every war.
						The  work of the hour was the examination of the men.
						Each company was sent to the creek for a bath and then in squads of twenty reported up
						stairs in the administration building for the ordeal. Every one knew pretty well his
						chances from the previous like experience, and many a one stood before the scrutiny of
						the merciless surgeons and forgot their nakedness for the fear and trembling that was in
						them. And the ordeal was severe. The surgeons looked right into them. A man must be all
						there: of course there are always exceptions; the fellow with one toe did get in; they said "you can't run, suppose we have to retreat what will
						become of you"? "Run," he said, "you ought to see me; me and some more stirred a
						hornet's nest yesterday, and I beat the hull of them out of the woods." And the fellow
						who could'nt read got in: he said "--," and he forgot himself when he said it for he
						said it in an awful way, "I did'nt come here to teach school, I came here to fight."
						However the fellow in the regiment with a glass eye--but we promised not to mention it
						for you know science is very perfect these days, and a fellow can see through a glass
						eye about as well as he can through a good one. Most companies came with more than the
						required number of men, and after one out of seven had been rejected the average
						strength of the companies was ninety-six. New recruits came in from time to time and the
						companies left Camp Mount with an average strength of one hundred and four.
					As fast as the men were examined attention was turned to the preparation of the rolls
						for "muster in;" a herculean task, to do it correctly and neatly, as the best and most
						careful penman from each company will most certainly testify.
					While such steps were being taken preparatory to the complete regimental organization,
						the men were not idle;  they spent one-half hour each
						morning and evening doing the setting-up exercise and marched out of their barns every
						day at 7:30 A.
						M., 11 A. M. and 4 P. M., and spent one hour in the evolutions of squad
						and company drill. The colonel, however, at once ordered all drills to be confined
						exclusively to squad drill; in those early executions one would hardly have recognized
						the crack steppers of the Seventh Army Corps. To their last day the boys will hear the
						"left, right; one, two; hepp, hepp; unc, anc," and although the drill leaders had not as
						yet learned to spell "March" with an initial "h," nor to put the Spanish on the last
						syllable of "Attention," they did their best in pure English and the men did their best
						and it was this doing their best and the excellent Esprit de corps of
						the entire body that brought them to the enviable position they later enjoyed in the
						Seventh Army Corps.
					They were only "boys in blue" in name for the uniforms were not yet issued and the
						single outfit they brought along soon had the appearance of a "Weary Willie" costume,
						and on July 10 many of the boys had a most excellent excuse for not coming to church to
						hear the Chaplain preach his first sermon in the great grandstand by the race track. But
						this could scarcely be called their hardest trial; it was rather when she came down on the Sunday excursions to see him once more before he left. He
						hoped she would excuse his appearance and tried to explain to her something about the
						"channels" through which the new suits had to come. He never turned his back upon her
						then and when he said good-bye he backed away; anyhow those were happy Sundays with
						their home friends and their heavy baskets; the soldiers remember them; the surgeons
						remember the Monday mornings sick call.
					On the 1st day of July, when five companies only had arrived, the first guard was
						posted by Lieutenant Crooker.  There were five posts and
						three reliefs, and the men were armed with hickory clubs. Later the guard was increased
						and were armed with the old-time guns of the National Guard brought from the state
						house, and each company, 
							RELIEVING THE GUARD.
						 commencing with Company B, took its turn in doing guard duty, the chief
						service of which was to keep at bay the venders of sweetmeats and pies, the arrest of
						whisky smugglers and guard-line runners.
					It's an old saying that whisky is easy to get. Well, it was. It was captured, quart
						after quart, and turned over to the surgeons for use in the medical
							department. One scoundrel was brought in--yes, he did have a bottle for a friend
						who ordered it. Lieutenant-Colonel Backus found it difficult to locate that particular
						bottle, for, in searching the fellow, he found eight others--nine bottles on one man.
						The Colonel was indignant; he would show the fellow some military discipline; forthwith
						he and his three pals were lodged in the guard-house for the night, where they
						stayed--until they took a notion to climb out.



					

					Of course the guards had to be tested; they must learn never to surrender their gun,
						not even to the colonel; but it was just as one poor crestfallen darkey guard, who had
						surrendered his gun, said to the officer of the guard: "He done won my confidence, sah,"
						and it was a rather underhanded and merciless way to do; but it isn't generally known
						that the colonel was held up one night till the next relief came on; the calls did not
						work that night; neither corporal, sergeant nor officer of the guard came, and the
						colonel--well, he waited. The men were there for a purpose and they knew it, although
						there were some things they all as yet could not be expected to know, for instance:
					
						Stranger approaching--"Are you a sentinel, sir?"
						Company A man on guard--"No, I am a Swede."
					
					Such was life amid the busy scenes of those first days of Camp Mount until the regiment
						was ready for muster, July 15.
					The following day, July 16, Colonel Durbin issued the first general order of the
						regiment, a copy of which is here inserted. An important document to the compliance with
						the admirable tone of which is greatly due the standard afterward attained by the
						regiment under his command, and which contains regimental data of special interest for
						officers and men.
					
						
							
								
									
										
											HEADQUARTERS 161ST REG.
				IND. VOL. INF.
				CAMP MOUNT, INDIANAPOLIS,
											July 16, 1898.
										
									

									GENERAL ORDER NO. 1.
									Congratulating the officers and men of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Regiment
										Indiana Volunteer Infantry upon having passed and received the approval of the
										Examining Board and mustering officer, and imposing the fullest confidence in
										the officers and men, the following is  published
										for the information and guidance of all concerned:
									Obedience and proper respect to the superior officers are the first
										requirements of a soldier. An officer in any grade in command should and must
										receive the same obedience and respect as though he be of the highest grade.
										Fidelity to duty, with zeal and energy, is none the less a requisite.
									In the present war, to create armies and make soldiers of men in the shortest
										time is the aim of those in control. Therefore, in order that the highest state
										of efficiency may be attained, it will be expected of you that you should at
										once and at all times call forth your best energies, and let it be the effort of
										each and every one, of whatever station, to have it said of him, "duty well
										done."
									All authority should be exercised with firmness, decorum and, above all,
										impartiality, and authority should be respected by implicit obedience and loyal
										support from subordinates. Let it be the aim of each and every one to labor
										earnestly to perfect himself in military drill, instructions and discipline.
									It will be necessary, and one of the first cares, to preserve health, and as
										your commanding officer I enjoin upon officers and men to look well to
										preserving your present physical condition, which is evidenced to be good by
										reason of your acceptance by the surgeons and mustering officer. Going into a
										hot climate, as we doubtless will, it will be necessary to the preservation of
										health to abstain from the use of intoxicating drinks.
									Let your aim be at all times to be prepared for duty by presenting yourself in
										your best physical condition, without impairment of body or intellect produced
										by any article that will weaken or impair. Let your stimulants be a pride in the
										perfectness of your bodies, and a zeal and 
										energy to become the best regiment not only from our own state, but any other
										state.
									It is expected of you, and is due the government which you serve, that we will
										do nothing that will interfere with all the requirements demanded of us.

									
										The letter designations of companies is as follows: Captain Lee
												M. Olds, Company A.
											Captain Winston Menzies, Company B.
											Captain Thomas J. Hudgins, Company C.
											Captain Charles E. Crosby, Company D.
											Captain Louis C. Baird, Company E.
											Captain William M. Smith, Company F.
											Captain Albert D. Ogborn, Company G.
											Captain James M. Gwinn, Company H.
											Captain William Guthrie, Company I.
											Captain Wilford T. Stott, Company K.
											Captain James L. Anderson, Company L.
											Captain George A. West, Company M.
											The relative rank of all commissioned officers of the same grade
												corresponds to the designation by letter of their companies, those of
												Company A being senior, and through regular gradation by letter to Company
												M, its officers being junior. For instance, the captain, first and second
												lieu- tenants of Company A will be the seniors in rank in their grade in the
												regiment, and those of Company M the juniors.
											Precedence of non-commissioned officers of the same grade and the same
												relative positions in a grade will, likewise, be determined.
											For instance, the first, second, third, etc., sergeants of Company A will
												be senior in rank to the first, second, third, etc., of other companies, but
												the third sergeant of Company A will not be senior in rank to the second
												sergeant of any other company.



										


										The following assignment of companies to battalions is hereby
											announced: First Battalion, Companies A, E, K, M.
											Second Battalion, Companies B, D, F, I.
											Third Battalion, Companies C, G, H, L.
											Lieutenant-Colonel Victor M. Backus, Major Harold C. Megrew and Major Matt.
												R. Peterson, One Hundred and Sixty=first Indiana Volunteer Infantry, are
												assigned to the command of the First, Second and Third Battalions
												respectively. They will be obeyed and respected accordingly.
											Battalion commanders are authorized to appoint their commissioned and
												non-commissioned staff officers, with the approval of the regimental
												commander.
										On and after the 17th inst., officers' school will be established
											and held daily, Saturdays and Sundays excepted, from 3:15 P. M. to 4:15 P. M. Officers' call will be sounded at 3:05 P. M., at which time all officers not excused by regimental
											commander will repair to regimental headquarters.
										On and and after the 17th inst. non-commissioned officers' school
											will be held daily from 8:45 A. M. to
											9:45 A. M., at such, places as company
											commanders may designate. The instruction of each company will be under the
											supervision of company commanders, and all company officers and
											non-commissioned officers not excused by the regimental commander will be
											required to attend. School call will be sounded at 8:35 A.
												M.
										All drills, until further orders, will be squad drills. Battalion
											commanders will see that this order is strictly enforced.
										The verbal appointment of John R. Brunt, first lieutenant and
											quartermaster One Hundred and Sixty-first 
											Indiana Volunteer Infantry, to be acting ordnance officer of the regiment is
											hereby made of record.
									

									
										
											By order of Colonel Durbin.
											
											OLIVER M. TICHENOR,
												 1st Lieut. and Adjutant 161st Ind. Vol. Inf.
										
									
								
							
						
					

					It will be noticed by the order of companies herein mentioned that the company from
						Hammond, commanded by Lee M. Olds, was made the ranking company of the regiment. No body
						of men worked harder than did the boys and officers of Company A. They were at it early
						and late and attained very speedily to the degree of excellency that characterized their
						work. Other companies as well were doing most excellent work, but the Mount Vernon
						company was perhaps the one that made the Hammond boys work hardest for their
						distinction, and the earnest and pleasant rivalry resulted in a hard choice between
						them. The four company commanders first mustered were called into the presence of
						Colonel Durbin and the battalion commanders. They were given the preference of choosing
						the ranking company themselves or leaving the decision to the committee before them.
						They prefered to abide by the decision of the latter, and the choice was accordingly
						made. At a meeting of all officers the following evening a like method was determined
						upon for fixing the rank of companies mustered on the 12th and 13th.
					The first meeting of officers was held July 13th in the dispensary room of the
						headquarters building where Major Megrew, Captains Smith and Guthrie were appointed a
						committee to suggest some out-fitter's establishment for uniforms, etc. There was only
						one man in those days and his name was Pettibone. Accordingly Mr. Pettibone's agent was
						busy for weeks fitting (?) the officers out. Patience is a most excellent virture and
						the officers now  had the most excellent opportunity for
						its display. They waited many weary weeks after those gilded coats and striped pants
						were due, and when they came,--to see those fits! The officers had to do something and
						not being profane men, they had to laugh; they had a perfect fit of this. To see John R.
						Brunt poke his long arms through a Kaki that would quicker fit a Lilliputian--short
						sleeves perhaps intended for evening dress;--to see Victor M. Backus color up with blood
						as he tugged to squeeze himself on the inside of his--to see W. T. Durbin lose himself
						in his--and every one else look ridiculous--to see this would have made Pettibone
						himself laugh. In fact those were marvelous suits, self-fitting, warranted to fit
						anybody and lest any one who is in the distance heard the hilarious proceedings that
						lasted so long into the night of July 25th should form an unfavorable impression of our
						sobriety let it here be chronicled that the officers of the One Hundred and Sixty-first
						Indiana Volunteer Infantry were simply trying on the Pettibone suits.
					At a similar meeting of officers the next day the colonel announced the first officers'
						school, which met on Monday, 18th, in the upstairs of the headquarters building. A few
						remarks were made by Colonel Durbin in which he designated Major Peterson as instructor.
						A typical school in which "Tactics" were explained, for which a man was supposed to
						study his lessons, at which the roll was called and which no officer could absent
						himself without a legitimate excuse. The officers always knew how to execute the
						movement in question with their men but could not tell in school just what command they
						would use to do it with. This was the one peculiar and mysterious feature.
					On Tuesday, July 19th, the first issue of clothing was made by the quartermaster and as
						fast as possible thereafter the men were supplied from United States clothing  department. One can easily imagine the change that such
						change of garments made. The boys did really look taller, but it is doubtful if they
						looked as much taller as it seemed to them they were. On Wednesday, 20th, the first
						battalion formation was made by Major Megrew, commanding the Second Battalion.
					In the evening of the 21st the friends of Lieutenat-Colonel Backus presented him with a
						sword. Concerning that occasion the following is from the Indianapolis Sentinel, of the
						22nd of July:
					The porch of the headquarters at Camp Mount was the scene of a very pleasant gathering
						last evening on the occasion of the presentation of a sword to Lieutenant-Colonel Backus
						by a number of his friends in this city. It was filled with the officers of the
						regiment, and a number of ladies and gentlemen and a crowd of soldiers of the camp were
						gathered before it.
					Mr. Ben Webb and Mr. E. M. Johnson were the chief managers of the ceremony. The
						presentation speech was made by Mr. J. P. Dunn, who spoke as follows:
					
						"LIEUTENANT-COLONEL BACKUS--We are come to tender to you a token of esteem for the past and a
							confidence for the future. A third of a century has passed away since the gloomy cloud
							of civil war lifted from our country, but time has not dimmed the memory of the
							glorious deeds that were done in that gigantic struggle. With us of Indiana and
							Illinois there is no part in the achievements of that war that is looked upon with
							higher pride than that borne by Wilder's brigade. The rest of the country does not
							know as we know the story of that flying swarm of the pioneers of battle. We have
							listened with eager earnestness to the account of its brilliant victory at Hoover's
							gap. We have heard with breathless interest the story of its daring destruction of the
							supply depot at Decker, and its  escape over the hills
							from the overwhelming Confederate force that came just too late for its protection. We
							have thrilled with excitement over the description of the unlooked-for attack on
							Chattanooga when Lilly's guns wakened the enemy from a sense of security. We have
							heard with quickened pulse the account of its stubborn fighting at Chickamauga, at
							Selma and at Macon. It is a wonderful story of wild raids and desperate chances
							taken--of riding by night and fighting by day--for there was little rest where John T.
							Wilder commanded. And we may well wish it were all recorded in permanent form that
							those who come after us may know it as we know it. Those who can recount it are
							swiftly passing from our sight. It is but a few weeks since they laid to rest that
							true and tried soldier, John Fleming. But a little later this whole community bowed in
							sorrow at the announcement of the death of that peerless man--that knight errant in
							war and peace--Colonel Eli Lilly. Only this week you buried gallant Bill Bray--as
							brave a man as ever carried a musket in our army. And I can but think that there must
							have been great satisfaction to that grizzled veteran in his last days, when he heard
							how you, his youthful protege, the youngest soldier of the brigade, had given to
							Indiana the unprecedented honor of tendering the services of a full regiment of
							volunteers before the president's call was received.
						"But while we treasure these memories of the past, we rejoice that we have reached
							new times and new conditions. We glory in the knowledge of an united country, and we
							know that the blood now shed in battle against a foreign foe shall cement the hearts
							of all sections so that we shall be disunited no more forever. Surely our soldiers
							shall march with quickened step and lighter heart because America is all on one side
							and under one flag. We are one nation and one people.



						

						"Lieutenant-Colonel Backus, I address you in behalf of your fellow-citizens, your
							neighbors, your friends. We offer you this sword with unbounded confidence that it
							will never know dishonor. We know that if its blade shall be reddened it will be with
							the blood of the enemies of your country, shed in fair and honorable combat. We know
							that when it flashes in the charge it will be before the eyes of your men. We wish
							that when you grasp its hilt it shall bear the message to you that our hopes, our
							kindliest wishes and our prayers are with you and all your comrades who go to uphold
							the nation's honor. Some of you may not return. The enemy's arms or dread disease may
							leave you lifeless in the foreign lands. Some of you may return broken with sickness
							or with wounds. We hope for the best. We trust that God may deal kindly with you. We
							wish this sword to be with you in remembrance that whatever may befall you, and all of
							you, shall be held by us in honor, in esteem and in affection, while we shall
							live."
					
					Lieutenant-Colonel Backus received the sword with evident emotion and briefly returned
						thanks to the donors. He said that he was certain that the regiment was the best one
						that had been sent out to the war. It had the best colonel, the best majors, the best
						captains and the best men. He was certain that good reports would come from it when it
						got to the front. When he returned from the the Civil, war thirty-three years ago, he
						carried a Spencer rifle and he only hoped that this sword would come back with as good a
						record as that rifle. He would promise one thing, and that was that it should not come
						back dishonored in any event.
					On Saturday, July 23d, occurred the first wedding. The Second Batallion, of which the
						bridegroom was a member, formed in hollow square in an open space of the grove. Two
						other companies were also present, and here in the 
						presence of comrades and friends, on nature's soft carpet, and under her beautiful
						skies, after Colonel Backus had said "I give this woman to be the soldier's bride," the
						regimental chaplain performed the ceremony that made Sergeant Robert L. Cromer, of
						Company I, and Miss Pink Allen, of Logansport, man and wife, and the soldiers gave three
						rousing cheers for the happy couple. On Sunday, July 24, the first regimental parade
						took place. Visitors were in abundance that day and from the grand stand and from the
						windows and balcony of the Administration building they watched eleven hundred boys form
						in one long line of companies that stretched through the oval race track from end to
						end; it was a big crowd of soldiers and and as Lieutenant-Colonel Backus looked upon it,
						it seemed to grow bigger with every second; finally he shouted: "Right forward! fours
						right!" and after a remarkable maneuver got them to pass in review before Colonel
						Durbin. It was on this day that the adjutant's remarkable riding furnished material for
						such favorable newspaper comment.
					In the meantime international concerns were progressing exceeding slow, and while the
						men were speculating as to the when and where of our departure, public opinion was
						forming itself into the impression that we were on our first and only camping ground. As
						soon, however, as tentage was received the regiment was to change quarters, to leave the
						old barns and pitch a more model camp in the eastern portion of the grounds. This
						savored of a longer stay but was simply the purpose to improve the time and camp and
						give the men a little more military experience, even though the tents should stand only
						for a day, but who knew? Accordingly the camp was laid out, thirteen wells were driven,
						tents were issued, and on July 29 and 30 the boys took up their beds and walked to the
						little village of tents  and in the evening at taps laid
						themselves down by fives in the little white houses.
					The ground was the same as that occupied by the other Indiana regiments, but so orderly
						and in such system was this camp laid out that favorable comparisons and comments were
						heard by all who visited the regiment while there. It was the idea which later perfected
						made the One Hundred and Sixty-first camp a "revelation."
					On July 31st (Sunday) occurred the first muster for pay. "Of all the signing of rolls
						that was the best one yet," said one man as he finished. On the 2d day of August the
						45-caliber, 1884 pattern, Springfield rifles with bayonets were issued. They made the
						men appear very formidable, and they began at once the practice of the manual of arms;
						and for several days the boys drilled and speculated on the future, and posed for
						Treadwell-Shane, who hung the "Father of his Country" out to smile upon the boys, while
						he made mounted heroes out of them on a card 14 x 20, all for the small sum of $1.50
						each.
					Saturday, August 6, at 5:30, the first guard was mounted, in a military fashion, Major
						Peterson acting as regimental adjutant; Captain Olds was officer of the day, and
						Lieutenant Reynolds was officer of the guard. The band was in formation, but
						instrumentless, and two of them accompanied the ceremony with bugles. This has always
						been an attractive feature; it was interesting that evening because it was new, but
						later, when executed with such spirited precision, the inspiring music, the inspection
						of guns, the entire ceremony, from the marching up of each detail to the passing in
						review before its officers, the act, although somewhat dramatic, was attractive and
						interesting, and impressed thoughtful minds with a world of meaning. In that ceremony
						one could see the whole history of a war; so much have sentinels to do with battles.



					

					
						GUARD MOUNT, CAMP COLUMBIA. 
					



					

					Boys, do you remember the brave deed of August 5? History would be incomplete without
						it. It was 2:30 P. M. when you formed yourselves
						and with determination deeply stamped upon your brows you advanced on headquarters.
						Lieutenant-Colonel Backus was not the man you was looking for, and when he asked your
						purpose you demanded that he bring the colonel out, and the colonel came out of his
						tent; you remember when came and looked right at you--you know how the colonel could
						look--and when he said: "What does this mean?" your leader swallowed the lump that rose
						like lightning in his throat and managed to say: "We want more privileges?" and the
						colonel said: "Every man of you to your tents, at once!" In a minute not a man was in
						sight. You always were obedient.
					On August 7 (Sunday) the regiment was called out for parade; Lieutenant-Colonel Backus
						passed the regiment in review and rode to his place by the side of Colonel Durbin. The
						colonel asked him to form the regiment in line of masses, as he had something to say to
						them. After complimenting them on their appearance as a regiment he told them of the
						following order he that day received.
					
						
							
								
									
										
											
				WASHINGTON, D. C., August 7, 1898.
				
										
									
									Col. Winfield T. Durbin, commanding One Hundred and
										Sixty-first United States Volunteer Infantry, Camp Mount, Indianapolis,
										Indiana:
									By direction of the secretary of war, you will proceed as soon as practicable
										with your regiment to Jacksonville, Florida, and report to the commanding
										general there. Upon receipt of this order you will at once communicate with the
										chief quartermaster, Chicago, for the necessary transportation, and with the
										chief commissary, Chicago, for ten-days' field rations, the necessary travel
										rations and coffee  money. The quartermaster
										general and commissary general have instructed the chief quartermaster and chief
										commissary as above to provide the transportation rations, and coffee money.
										Telegraph day of departure to commanding general of Seventh Corps, also to this
										office, specifying amount of tentage, kind and calibre of arms and ammunition
										taken with you. Acknowledge receipt.
									
										
											By order of the secretary of war.
											
											H. C. CORBIN,
											
											12:38 P. M.
											Adjutant General.
										
									
								
							
						
					

					No one present will forget the demonstration which followed the reading of this order.
						It meant that the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana was not to go home, but was to
						share in whatever there was yet to do to accomplish the end for which war was declared.
						And didn't the boys shout, and didn't they yell, and didn't every hat go up in the air,
						and didn't the officers do their share of noise-making, and how the people in the grand
						stand did wonder what the Colonel had said that threw the boys into such a commotion,
						and then when they were given "fall out" after reaching the company streets, how each
						company vied with every other in seeing which could make the most noise. After supper
						breaking the news to mother and other friends was the order until taps, and immediately
						next morning all loose articles were carefully packed away and preparations made for an
						immediate departure. Tents were searched and all side arms demanded. The boys had
						enlisted to fight and couldn't understand this seeming hardship, but experience calls it
						a wise precaution.
					Tuesday, the 9th, the paymaster squared every man with the Government, and on Wednesday
						we would have been marching to the cars had transportation been furnished as per
						expectation, but all was in readiness the following  day,
						and 1 P. M., August 11, found the One Hundred and
						Sixty-first Indiana marching toward the North street depot, from which point, by
						contract, the Big Four was to carry us all to Jacksonville. Concerning this day's events
						the following is taken, in part, from the Indianapolis Journal of the 12th instant:
					
						"The One Hundred and Sixty-first Regiment has gone to Jacksonville, leaving Camp
							Mount deserted except for the two colored companies. There were no drills in camp in
							the morning, but every soldier was intense with excitement in anticipation of the move
							to the south, even though none of the troops may ever see the smoke of battle. The
							officers were instructed to have a man at each corner of every tent at nine o'clock
							promptly, and at bugle call to draw the ropes and pack tents and equipment at once. As
							soon as the bugle blew the blast every tent fell over to the north just as if a
							cyclone had struck camp and swept the field clean. In twenty minutes the tents were
							down, packed and loaded into wagons to be hauled to the cars near by.
						"An early noon mess was ordered, and at one o'clock the ride to Sixteenth street
							began. The colored companies, which acted as escort to the regiment, came first and
							were followed by the First Battalion. These were followed by the Second and Third
							Battalions. The soldiers left the cars at Sixteenth street and marched across to
							Meridian, where they halted, waiting for Colonel Durbin and staff, who came up a few
							minutes before three. Governor Mount, his secretary and the When Band were in waiting.
							At three o'clock the order to 'fall in' was given and the line of march began, the
							colored men in front, then Governor Mount, Colonel Durbin and staff. The First, Second
							and Third Battalions followed in the order given. Company F carried the flag in the
							middle of the regiment. The length of the line was six blocks, four abreast. Hundreds
								 of people lined the way along the line of march,
							shouting 'good-bye' to the soldiers. When the flag was carried along the crowd went
							wild with applause and hats were lifted until it had passed.
						In front of the state house the troops were drawn up and passed in review before the
							governor."
					
					We have always thought of the governor as our friend, and every officer and private
						felt something of the debt to him for its magnificent beginning under his care and
						supervision. Every regiment claimed and received his interest and his attention, and he
						dealt fairly and impartially with them all, out of concern for the credit they were to
						reflect upon the State that sent them forth, but the One Hundred and Sixty-first, being
						the only volunteer regiment; he necessarily came into closer touch with its
						organization. His notable wisdom in the selection of officers and the justice
						characterizing his every dealing with the regiment, won the admiration of every soldier.
						Its welfare received his attention in every possible way and the good reputation it
						afterward sustained was to him a source of deep pleasure. It is a pleasure to here
						insert the governor's speech which was made to the regiment drawn up before him and
						which so many of the men far down the narrow street could not hear.
					
						THE GOVERNOR'S SPEECH.
						
							"Soldiers of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteers--You are to-day
								bidding good-bye to friends, to home and to your native state. In behalf of this
								commonwealth I desire to bid you good-bye and godspeed on your journey. In common
								with thousands of brave men, you tendered your service upon the first call of the
								President of the United States for volunteers. You pleaded earnestly and with
								importunity that your service might be accepted. You reflect but the patriotism of
								tens of thousands of other brave men in Indiana who tendered their 
								
									GOVERNOR JAMES A. MOUNT.
								
								 services and who have importuned earnestly that
								their service might be accepted. (Applause.) It has been your patriotism and the
								patriotism of the brave men of Indiana that enabled the state to take her proud
								position at the front of the states in furnishing her quota of soldiers. (Applause.)
								It was this patriotism that enabled Indiana to report her quota ready first of all
								the states. It was this patriotism that enabled Indiana to have her soldiers first
								mustered into the service. It will not, soldiers, militate against your patriotism
								or your honor that you may not engage in battle. You have made personal
								sacrifice--no one knows but a soldier and a soldier's family the personal sacrifice
								he makes when he enlists in his country's service. He goes forth to meet the dangers
								of battle and the disease of the camp. He goes forth perhaps not to return to those
								who are dear to him. He enlists and is ready for whatever service the government may
								accept of him. He sacrifices his home, he leaves loved ones, and only a mother can
								tell what sacrifices she makes when she bids farewell to her darling boy, and only
								that boy knows the sacrifice of leaving home when he bids farewell to his mother and
								his friends. Some of you have bade good-bye to a loving wife, some of you to a
								mother and a father, some to brothers and sisters, but you are all bidding good-bye
								to friends who are as dear to you as your own life. Not only this sacrifice, but
								many of you are sacrificing your business. You have allowed nothing to come between
								you and your country. I may truthfully say of Indiana that the five regiments that
								have gone forth from this state, and are now going, and the two independent
								companies, and the two batteries, are as grand men as ever enlisted in any cause.
								(Applause.) And they are all of them as brave men as ever entered an army for the
								defense of the country. (Renewed applause.) And if opportunity offers Indiana
								soldiers will reflect credit upon the government and upon this great commonwealth.
								(Applause.)
							"It looks at this time as though the war might be near its termination, and in the
								dawn of peace we all rejoice. These brave men have been willing to give their lives,
								but God spare their lives and permit them to return, 
								all of them, to this state. (Great applause.) But, soldiers of the One Hundred and
								Sixty-first, I am not a prophet, but I predict that you will tread on Cuban soil
								before you are welcomed back to the state of Indiana. (Tremendous applause.) I
								believe that the gallant Fitzhugh Lee, if he does not go to Cuba as conqueror, will
								go there with an army of occupation (applause), and I believe this regiment, with
								General Lee, will be on Cuban soil next winter. And, comrade soldiers, there will be
								battles for you to fight, though they may not be against the enemy. The insidious
								temptations that follow camp life require courage to meet and maintain your honor
								and your dignity. I would counsel you, meet these temptations of camp life like
								heroes. There is no schooling, in my judgment, that is grander than the schooling a
								soldier receives in camp and in battle. The mask will be thrown aside. You will see
								men in their true character. In the army some men will do that which they would
								scorn to do in society. But the true soldier will maintain his dignity, his
								gentlemanly demeanor, in camp and in battle, as well as in society. (Applause.) And
								those soldiers that meet the dangers and temptations of camp and return with their
								characters unsullied, dignified, temperate, gentlemanly at the close of war will be
								men who have learned lessons that will be of incalculable benefit to them through
								life. So my parting words would be to these brave men, be diligent, be active, be
								brave, be temperate, be contented, maintain a cheerful disposition. We are told that
								a cheerful spirit doeth good as a medicine. The soldier that becomes disheartened
								and discouraged in camp is in danger of inviting disease and of meeting death. So,
								soldiers of the One Hundred and Sixty-first, acquit yourselves like men, so that
								when you return to your friends and to your state you will return bringing back that
								nobility of character and manhood as well as a brave record as a soldier. I have no
								fear the good name of Indiana will be vindicated in the camp or in the furnace of
								battle. (Applause.) Go forth, brave men of Indiana, and may God's blessing and God's
								protecting power go with you, and in his good providence may you be permitted to
								return and receive that welcome that patriotic 
								soldiers deserve from their friends and from their native state." (Tremendous
							applause.)
						Colonel Durbin made a few happy remarks and then, dismounting from his horse, shook
							hands with the governor. Colonel Backus followed Colonel Durbin's example. Cheer after
							cheer was given by the soldiers for the flag and officers. The march then continued to
							the North street depot, where cars were in readiness.
						At 8:30 o'clock the first section, bearing the Third Battalion, left the depot; a few
							minutes intervened between the starting of the other two sections, the first of which
							carried the First Battalion and the second the Second Battalion. The arrangements were
							complete and were carried out with precision in every detail. The One Hundred and
							Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry was on its way to join the army of Fitz Hugh
							Lee.
					
				

				


				
					
						CHAPTER III.
						
						
						EN ROUTE TO JACKSONVILLE. 

					The three trains left North street station a few moments apart and passed in close
						succession through the Union depot at 9:10 P. M.,
						and a few moments later the lights of Indianapolis were shining far behind us as the
						well-loaded coaches sped away to the south.
					The entire train save the baggage and freight accommodations was composed of sleeping
						cars and the troops were transported with every possible convenience and comfort. The
						brief run of each section is better described by one who was there.

					
						THE FIRST SECTION.

						While the big guns were belching at Santiago the One Hundred and Sixty-first
							Regiment, just mustered into service, was listening with bated breath and wondering if
							ever it would be theirs "to do or die." The wiseacres knowingly shook their heads and
							said "you fellows will never leave Camp Mount until you are mustered out," so it was a
							great relief to all when the orders came to report at Jacksonville. The Third
							Battalion was designated as the first section, carrying besides its four companies,
							Colonel Durbin, with Major Smith and Adjutant Tichenor of the staff and
							Lieutenant-Colonel Crooker, commissary officer, and the usual amount of impedimenta
							including the regimental horses. It was 8:50 P. M. before we were loaded on Pullmans at the North street station and started
							on our  mission for humanity's sake over the Big Four
							by way of Louisville, Kentucky. Our first stop was at Shelbyville at 11 o'clock, where
							a large number of people were waiting with a farewell for the boys of Company C; but
							little time was given them, however, and we were soon speeding on our way, arriving at
							Louisville about 3 A. M., where we were
							transferred to the L. & N. Railroad; a few hours more and we were passing through
							some battle fields of old upon which there is a monument to the memory of the boys in
							blue who had fallen there long before the majority of us were born.
						At Bowling Green trouble began with a native selling whisky to the men and who had no
							intention of respecting the order of Lieutenant Dority, who had been appointed provost
							marshal for the section, and when the bystanders interfered in behalf of their fellow
							townsman trouble of a very serious character began to brew, until Colonel Durbin and
							the adjutant came to the marshal's assistance; the liquor was confiscated, the
							soldiers ordered to the train, and the offending party allowed his freedom for lack of
							time to punish him. The train went flying away, making: Nashville about noon, where
							coffee was served for the first time since leaving Camp Mount. We were soon on our way
							again, reaching Birmingham, Alabama, shortly before: midnight, where we passed General
							Carpenter and staff of the Fourth Army Corps on their way to Huntsville, where that
							corps had been ordered from Tampa. At Birmingham several colored men boarded the train
							and began to go through some of the clothing of the men whose fathers had made them
							free. They were, however, soon promptly fired from the train, and, after a few shots
							fired in the air by the daring lieutenant appointed for that purpose, the train was
							ready to proceed. The next morning papers at Decatur told us that the protocol had
							been signed and that  the war was virtually at an end;
							but on we went, arriving at 2:45 P. M. at
							Thomasville, known as the "garden city of the south," and one of its best known and
							most popular health resorts. Late in the afternoon we came to Waycross; here we had an
							hour's stop. The colonel ordered the battalion off and instructed company commanders
							to give their men the setting-up exercise and some of the foot movements. A heavy rain
							interfered even before Company G could complete its roll call, yet it was finished
							despite the fact that every man got soaked through; the other companies broke for
							shelter at the first sign and were soon scattered over town, some looking for a bite
							to eat, others for a drink, the former getting the best of the deal, for Waycross is a
							sure enough "dry town," despite the fact that the streets were flooded with water and
							the mud ankle deep. At Waycross an old darkey brother came to us with the query "is
							you all gwine down to jine Sherman? " Assuring him that we were, we again boarded the
							train and soon finished our journey, arriving at Jacksonville at 9:30 P. M. of the 13th, where we were run into the yards and
							there awaited the coming of the other sections, which were said to be somewhere in our
							rear. The trip was devoid of any incident further than the excitement, to some of the
							favored ones riding on the engine while passing through Georgia, caused by running
							over an occasional steer.
					

					
						SECOND SECTION.

						This section followed closely after the first. It carried the First Battalion with
							Lieutenant-Colonel Backus in command and with Lieutenant Gerrish and Chaplain
							Biederwolf of the staff.
						The men were comfortably fixed, two in a lower berth and one in an upper and with
							every one in highest spirits  we chased away in hot
							pursuit of the section in advance, Captain Baird was made officer of the day and
							Lieutenant Fitch officer of the guard.
						For every coach end there was a guard who stood without in the day and sat within at
							night. We knew the good example the first section would set us in sobriety and it was
							desirable to set the same example to the section following us and one of the works of
							chief importance was preventing liquor being passed to the men through the windows by
							those who were dwarfed in character enough to do it.
						One son of darkness was caught in the act just before we started; he was brought into
							the presence of Lieutenant-colonel Backus who ordered him turned over to civil
							authorities; how he did beg and promise and finally when the Colonel asked him how
							quick he would get out if allowed to run he said "Now boss, foh God! if you give dis
							chile three seconds you can shoot at him." The colonel gave it to him and he was out
							of sight in less time than he had bargained for. At every stop along the way guards
							were placed outside along the cars who did double duty of keeping the men in and every
							thing undesirable out. In this regard the section is indebted to Lieutenant Gerrish
							for admirable service rendered. The train reached the smoky city of Louisville early
							on the morning of the 12th where it had the misfortune of starting up before some of
							the men got on board. Billy Woods, of Company A, and a few others had only met some
							friends but they turned up in Jacksonville as good as new a few minutes after the
							regiment was an the ground.
						The boys didn't do a thing to the big juicy watermelons that were waiting all along
							the way to meet the train. They were dessert to the corn-beef and beans and hard-tack
							that fed the boys, and revenue to the sleepy old 
							farmer who was fortunate enough to have his crop in the right market at the right
							time.
						Everywhere we were greeted with characteristic southern cordiality, especially
							generous under circumstances fast obliterating the last bit of sectional feeling and
							calling us together in the common struggle then on. There were cheers and there were
							waving handkerchiefs, there were hand-shakings and expressive good-byes though they
							had met but for a moment. Beautiful bouquets, roses and loose flowers were laid in our
							hands at every stop and on every side expressions of universal good feeling and best
							wishes to cheer us as we went, made the run an interesting and delightful one.
						From an occasional inquiry as to when the preceding section had passed we learned
							that either they were gaining time or we were losing it; our frequent stops to repair
							couplings suggested the latter; the platforms were pulling off and in order to arrive
							with the same number of cars with which we started it became necessary to stop at
							Decatur, Alabama, and throw three cars to the rear. The train then rolled on to
							Montgomery, Alabama's capital, and for a brief period capital of the Confederate
							States; here the men who cared to wake up got coffee at 2 A. M. The first section seemed to be uneasy about the tardiness and sent
							us the following telegram, received about one hundred and fifty miles out of
							Montgomery.
						
							
								
									
										"Lieut.-Col. Backus:
										"Why is second section so far behind; report condition of your command,
											including chaplain.
										
											"COL. W. T. DURBIN."
										
									
								
							
						
						The following reply was wired at once.
						
							
								
									
										"Col. W. T. Durbin:
										"Making best possible time, three couplings broke; all sober except
											chaplain."
										
											"V. M. BACKUS."
										
									
								
							
						



						

						That was an ingenious stroke, but a few hours later when information was received
							that beer was substituted for coffee at Thomasville the chaplain had a fit of genuine
							sobriety. Could any one think that a hungry man would prefer beer to a quart of
							delicious hot coffee; were the men who did not drink beer to have nothing? No. A
							canvass was made. "Boys remember those who take beer get no coffee." Be it to their
							credit that three-fourths chose coffee, which they got; the guzzler gulped his beer
							and then begged for coffee which he didn't get and the train rolled on to Waycross.
							More than a century ago General Oglethorpe, then governor of the colony of Georgia,
							had his headquarters in Waycross; it is to-day one of the most attractive places in
							the state, its temperature and its environs making it a rendezvous for many a winter
							visitor. After a short stay for supper the train pulled out for the last part of the
							long run to Jacksonville just as the third section came up at 9 P.
								M. Arriving at Jacksonville at 2:30 A. M., we found the first section a few hours in advance of us and after
							waiting until 6:30 A. M. the men had an
							opportunity for breakfast, and were ready to leave for the campsite, six miles out of
							the city.
					

					
						THE THIRD SECTION.

						After a long, weary wait on the transportation department there came a scramble for
							berths in the train which was to convey the third section to Jacksonville, Florida;
							then another one of those unexplained delays which seemed to be intended for those who
							had mothers, wives and sweethearts to bid goodbye, and we steamed slowly away from
							anxious friends and relatives, from our native state and from the scene of our
							regimental birth. Our trip was to be a long one, uneventful in most part, but in fact
							made up of  numerous modest incidents which become more
							interesting with retrospection.
						Besides the battalion commander and his companies this section was accompanied by
							Quartermaster Brunt and Dr. Wilson of the staff. Officers of the day and guard were
							appointed, the train was carefully searched, all lockers and other places of possible
							concealment opened and every discovered drop of intoxicants thrown away and every
							precaution taken to bring the section through in an orderly and commendable way.
						Sleep and sociability were scarce that night; in subdued wakefulness the boys lay
							quiet and thought of the past and the unknown future. Of course the coffee did not
							turn up at the breakfast hour, but it came later. The first meeting with the preceding
							section occurred at Bowling Green, Kentucky, where, after a short breathing space, we
							separated for another run. At Nashville it was late coffee again. We were fast leaving
							our beloved North behind us as was plainly noticed by the increase of colored people
							and by the increase of R's in the speech of the whites. We stopped for a short time at
							the historic town of Pulaski, made historic by its association with the Army of
							Tennessee in the last great war. We stayed in Pulaski too long, all on account of a
							dog; just a shepherd dog, nameless so far as we knew, but he left Pulaski with our
							train, it is presumed, and soon the wires were hot with messages which were being
							continually poked at us in regard to that dog; the militia was not ordered out by
							Governor Taylor, nor was the military force of Alabama called upon to restore the much
							desired canine, but many a self-important marshal of many a sleepy southern town was
							forced to stop whittling his favorite store-box and inquire for the lost pet. In the
							meantime the dog's conscience troubled him for leaving home and we kindly put  him in a condition to return, and when we were next
							approached by a diplomatic representative of the Montgomery police force in reference
							to the dog he was given carte blanche to search the train, but in
							vain, for if the dog wasn't on his way home, who could be blamed? Surely not the
							policeman.
						The short stops at the small stations, such as Ashford in Alabama, Bainbridge,
							Thomasville and Naylor in Georgia, gave us an opportunity to observe the strangers
							among whom fate had thrown us. At Bainbridge and Naylor our coaches were strewn with
							beautiful southern roses; at the former of these places a charming little southern
							beauty gave to Major Megrew a sweet smile, accompanied with a beautiful bouquet of
							roses, on the inside of which was a little note which read: "If you want to make the
							Spaniards run, just give the rebel yell," and signed "A Little Rebel." The extreme
							cordiality which was shown to us all through the south was too strong to be
							misunderstood; it was a feeling of friendship and good will. We reached Jacksonville
							about 3:30 A. M., August 14, and in six hours
							with the rest of the regiment we were disembarked at Panama Park, and the pine and
							palm thickets were being razed in a most unceremonious manner, and palm trees that
							were sold for dollars in our own states were being chopped down like thistles, and in
							their stead arose the square white houses of the new comers--the tall hoosiers of the
							One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry.
					

					
						FIRST IMPRESSIONS.

						First impressions are not always reliable, but the men were scarcely ever relieved of
							the unfavorable impression which Florida first made upon them. No doubt they were
							expecting too much; their imagination had been fired by  glowing accounts and exaggerated pictures of her luxuriant vegetation and they were
							going 
								
									"Way down in the South where gulf breezes blow,
									Where tall, stately pines and the live oaks grow,
									Where soft summer nights are cooled by the dew,
									And a summer sun shines the winter months through."
								
							
						

						They were bound for the "sunny South," where luxurious fruits of untold variety would
							be theirs for the trouble of gathering them; they were expecting monkeys to threw
							cocoanuts at them out of the tops of beautiful palms. But it is true that the Seventh
							Army Corps did not locate in the best part of this reputed land of flowers and
							although recent winters have been too severe for much of its fruitage yet there are
							many portions of the great peninsula that are veritable garden spots. But there was an
							abundance of some things; for instance, there were darkies enough; there were pine
							trees enough and there was sand enough; enough for a whole Sahara if you made up in
							depth what it lacked in breadth; there was also sun enough; the boys always had
							trouble about noon in finding their shadows and the direct and intense heat made one
							dull and stupid; and there was Florida moss enough dressing all those live oaks in
							mourning so prophetic with their drapery of the spirit that was so soon to take hold
							of the men.
						When the several trains arrived at the camping site the regimental effects were at
							once unloaded and the men began to carry them to their proper places where the company
							streets had been laid out. An elevated piece of ground already cleared for drilling
							purposes by the Third Nebraska, who were immediately on our right, had been reserved
							for us and immediately the busy scenes incident to arranging camp commenced; by late
							evening all tents were up and the camp in such shape as a day's work of a  regiment will usually put it, but all the men were
							tired; the tramping over sand and scorched by a hot August sun that cooked the
							vitality out of a fellow and the hard work after a hard ride went a good ways for the
							strongest man who was not accustomed to such depressing environment and when the
							evening came with its cool blessing the boys laid down to sleep and in a few moments
							might have been for all they knew back in the Hoosier state where so many soon wished
							they were.
						Immediately to our right was the Third Nebraska, beyond them the Second Mississippi
							and behind us a little to the left the Third Division Hospital. Upon our arrival
							Colonel Durbin was notified that his regiment had been assigned to the First Brigade,
							Third Division of the Seventh Army Corps. The Seventh Army Corps had at that time the
							following composition:

						Major-General Fitzhugh Lee, Commanding.

						
							FIRST DIVISION.
							Major-General J. Warren Keifer, Commanding.
						

						
							FIRST BRIGADE.
							Brigadier-General Lloyd Wheaton, Commanding.
							First Texas Volunteer Infantry.
							First Louisiana Volunteer Infantry.
							First Alabama Volunteer Infantry.
						

						
							SECOND BRIGADE.
							Brigadier General W. W. Gordon, Commanding.
							Second Texas Volunteer Infantry.
							Second Louisiana Volunteer Infantry.
							Second Alabama Volunteer Infantry.
						



						

						
							THIRD BRIGADE.
							Colonel C. B. Hunt, First Ohio Vol. Inf., Commanding.
							Fourth United States Volunteer Infantry.
							First Ohio Volunteer Infantry.
						

						
							SECOND DIVISION.
							Brigadier-General Abraham K. Arnold, Commanding.
						

						
							FIRST BRIGADE.
							Brigadier-General Andrew S. Burt, Commanding.
							Second Illinois Volunteer Infantry.
							First North Carolina Volunteer Infantry.
							Second New Jersey Volunteer Infantry.
						

						
							SECOND BRIGADE.
							Colonel D. V. Jackson, Fiftieth Iowa Volunteer Infantry, Commanding.
							Fiftieth Iowa Volunteer Infantry.
							First Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry.
							Ninth Illinois Volunteer Infantry.
						

						
							THIRD BRIGADE.
							Brigadier-General H. C. Hasbrouck, Commanding.
							Second Virginia Volunteer Infantry.
							Fourth Virginia Volunteer Infantry.
							Forty-ninth Iowa Volunteer Infantry.
						

						
							THIRD DIVISION.
							Brigadier-General Lucius F. Hubbard, Commanding.
						

						
							FIRST BRIGADE.
							Brigadier-General Lucius F. Hubbard, Commanding.
							Second Mississippi Volunteer Infantry.



							


							Third Nebraska Volunteer Infantry.
							One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry.
						

						
							SECOND BRIGADE.
							Brigadier-General James H. Barklay, Commanding.
							Fourth Illinois Volunteer Infantry.
							First South Carolina Volunteer Infantry.
							Sixth Missouri Volunteer Infantry.
						

						
							THE SECOND UNITED STATES VOLUNTEER CAVALRY.
							Colonel Jay L. Torrey, Commanding.
						

						
							SIGNAL CORPS BATTALION.
							Captain H. C. Giddings, Commanding.
						

						The Seventh Army Corps on September 1st consisted, therefore, of three infantry
							divisions, one cavalry regiment, one signal corps battalion, three hospital and four
							ambulance companies. A total of twelve hundred and fifty-two commissioned officers and
							thirty thousand one hundred and nineteen enlisted men.
					
				



				


				
					
						CHAPTER IV. 
						
						CAMP CUBA LIBRE. 

					August 14, '98-September 30, '98.
					The following day was like the first and with the coming of the next came also the news
						that on that day, August 16, there would be held a brigade review in honor of the
						governor of Nebraska; Governor Holcomb had arrived in the city, Saturday evening, the
						13th, and had come as a visitor of Colonel Bryan, of the Third Nebraska, to Camp Cuba
						Libre on Sunday, and after spending the night in camp witnessed the review on Monday.
						Being the first review with which the regiment was connected the officers had naturally
						a little solicitude about the part it was to play in the parade and did not return in
						the highest elatement over its deportment, but the fault lay elsewhere than in the
						regiment.
					On the 17th occurred the first regimental formation in the South, regimental parade
						being held late in the afternoon; the following few days were spent as usual under such
						circumstances; there were tents to be floored, sinks and shacks to be built and land to
						be cleared; the temperature was 103 and the drilling necessarily very light, one and
						one-half hours only being devoted to those military gyrations which some of the men have
						dubbed "The Soldier's delight;" now Florida was a part of our country and still is,
						although some of the men were of the impression that one of the peace conditions should
						be that Spain should take it back, yet being of their native land, like true patriots
							 whose sole purpose it is to sacrifice themselves for
						their country, the men all became members of "The Florida Land Improvement Company" and
						spent their spare time in grubbing stumps and roots and underbrush, thereby enhancing
						the value of the land so that an acre wholly worthless when we came might under pressing
						circumstances be sold for a few farthings when we left. On the banks of the St. Johns,
						not far away, was situated the famous Cummer Lumber mills, one of the largest
						establishments for the sawing and shipping of yellow pine in the United States and with
						its genial proprietor arrangements were made for furnishing the regiment with lumber.
						All told two hundred 
							COMPANY STREET IN CAMP CUBA LIBRE.
						 and forty thousand feet of lumber were there used by the One Hundred and
						Sixty-first Indiana; as fast as it could be  hauled to
						the regiment it was made up into floors and needful structures and by the 19th every
						tent in the regiment had its floor that was to guard its sleeping inmates from those
						sneaking malarial microbes that came up out of the ground like a thief in the night to
						fill the men with poison fever and to steal away their color and their spirits.
					By the end of the first week the carpenters detailed for the purpose had erected all
						the company cook shacks; back of headquarters the battalion and noncommissioned mess
						tents arose and finally after the colonel and all his staff had more sand in their craws
						than ever before or since a kitchen and breeze catching dining room covered a spot on
						the sand where they could humour their stomachs in comfort when there was any thing else
						besides fish to eat. Among the first regimental buildings to be erected was the 
							COMMISSARY. CAMP CUBA LIBRE.
						
						 structure to be used for the purpose of the commissary.
						Here the meat was handled and the bread baked and the rations issued and in this
						building the Exchange had its birth the following month.
					The commissary business at Camp Mount had been in the hands of M. R. Peterson, assisted
						by Lieutenant Meston and rations were issued from the Fine Arts building. Upon the
						regiment's departure for Jacksonville First Lieutenant Crooker was appointed regimental
						commissary officer, which position he held until sickness made necessary a leave of
						absence and Second Lieutenant Freeman was appointed to succeed him on the 5th of
						September and served till the service closed except during the time between February 23
						and March 23, when sick in the Second Division hospital at Camp Columbia, during which
						time Lieutenant Brunt acted in his stead. Lieutenant Freeman has been ably assisted by
						the valuable clerkship of Sergeant Charles E. Wolf, acting regimental commissary
						sergeant.
					This department draws and issues all rations for the regiment and besides the one
						thousand three hundred to one thousand five hundred loves of bread baked each day,
						practically a loaf a day for each man, the following figures will show at what cost to
						the Government a month's rations are issued to a regiment of men. These figures are
						furnished by Lieutenant Freeman.

					

						Fresh beef, 31,500 lbs. at 6c $1,890.00
						Beef roasted, one-pound cans, 3,900 lbs. at 14c 195.00
						Flour, 30,400 lbs. at 2c 608.00
						Hard bread, 11,700 lbs. at 6c 702.00
						Beans, 3,000 lbs. at 2c 60.00
						Rice, 2,000 lbs. at 6c 120.00
						Potatoes, 208 bush. at $1 208.00
						Onions, 52 bush. at $1 52.00


						

						Tomatoes, 3,480 lbs. at 8c $295.80
						Coffee, green, 2,000 lbs. at 8c 175.00
						Coffee roasted, 1,440 lbs. at 12c 183.00
						Sugar, 5,900 lbs. at 4c 265.50
						Vinegar, 400 gals. at 12C 48.00
						Salt, 1,600 lbs. at 7/8c 14.00
						Pepper, lOO lbs. at 15c 15.50
						Soap, 1,560 lbs. at 3c 46.80
						Salmon, 3,936 lbs. at 9c 354.24
						Bacon, 8,775 lbs. at 7c 614.25
						Total $5,847.09
					

					On the I9th another review was ordered, and the brigade was passed in review before its
						commanding officer, Colonel Montgomery, of the Second Mississippi. On this occasion, as
						on the previous one, there was no band to furnish music for the regiment, but after a
						long wait a very inferior set of brass band instruments came on the morning of the 22d.
						All around us from other regiments had been heard the music of their bands, but now the
						boys were fixed and that day there was music down the lines. "Tich" beat the bass-drum,
						and the band marched down by the companies, while all the men fell in to cheer; the next
						morning at "can't get 'em up" time they were aroused in the same way. It was only two
						weeks until the instruments in question were laid aside and replaced by the high-class
						ones of the Second Mississippi, who were bound for home.
					There was another review held on this day, this time it being the division which was
						passed in review on the usual parade place at 4 o'clock P. M. before Brigadier-General Hubbard. On the 24th the chaplain's
						assembly tent arose, a cool and commodious affair, where the officer  in charge could always look for his detail when they
						turned up missing, and where the men licked the ice when there was no water in the
						barrel and the hot sun made it dangerous for them to venture after a bucketfull.
					On the same day the barn, with its sixteen stalls, the best the horses ever saw since
						leaving Hoosierdom, was ready for them, previous to which they had stood about making
						the best of it. At Camp Mount they were sheltered in the comfortable stock barns, in
						Savannah in a rented affair that passed for a barn, save a few that were given free
						stalls by a kind friend across the way, while the accommodations in Cuba are shown in
						the accompanying cut.

					
						BARN--CAMP CUBA LIBRE.
					

					The 25th saw the colonel start on his flying trip to Washington; no one could swear to
						the purpose for which  he went but every private in the
						ranks knew. Already some of the men wanted to go home but the colonel was in for "On to
						Cuba," to which place when he returned the following Sunday he told them they had the
						brightest prospects of going; it was Sunday evening just time for the chaplain's service
						when the colonel decided by reason of the exigence of the occasion to hold a little
						service of his own; he always drew a bigger crowd than the chaplain and that night the
						men being particularly anxious about their future state he got the whole regiment and
						when he told them of their probable going to Cuba the same fellows who had just before
						preferred home-going broke loose in uncontrollable enthusiam upon the expenditure of
						which the chaplain had to wait for his service.
					During the colonel's absence the division was reviewed on the 26th by its commander,
						and a few days later was passed in review before General Lee. This was the first time
						the corps commander had reviewed the Third Division, and it brought to the men their
						first opportunity of seeing the general, of whom they had heard so much. The men were in
						heavy marching order, and the formation was in masses, on three sides of a hollow
						square, in the clear space by the side of Panama park. It was the most elaborate affair
						the boys had yet attended, and they did themselves proud; their excellent training was
						beginning to show, and the regiment received the unqualified recommendation of the
						general. This review was closely followed by another on the last day of the month. This
						was, however, to be a review, and the first one, of the entire, Seventh Army Corps, and
						was to be held in the city of Jacksonville before the commander of the corps.
					The regiment left camp at 12:30 and marched into the city, taking its place in the
						Third Division, which was reviewed first after Torrey's Cavalry and the Signal Corps  had passed the reviewing stand. Twenty-three regiments and
						more than twenty-eight thousand men were in line. The entire police force of the city
						went before the procession, and General Lee and staff headed the column until the
						reviewing stand was reached. Every inch of available space was crowded with a mass of
						white and black humanity, while from the piazzas of the Windsor the more favored looked
						down and pitied(?) the less fortunate. It took two hours for the corps to pass the
						reviewers, and the men were greeted with long and continued shouts of approval,
						although, from a military standpoint, the review could not begin to compare with those
						put up by the same corps, though reorganized, in later months. Among the remarks of the
						press it was said "Colonel Durbin's command won much praise by its fine marching, full
						companies and straight lines." Not more than a dozen men from the One Hundred and
						Sixty-first fell out from exhaustion, but it was a noticeable and notable fact that the
						men of the southern regiments could not stand the ordeal as well as those from the
						north, but with drooping heads, laid down in every spot, as the sturdy Hoosiers showed
						them how to endure their own climate. The companies returned at leisure, marching slowly
						and resting at will, until they arrived at camp, from 6 to 7:30 P.
							M., glad the day was over and ready for the night.
					With the corps review closed the month and its events; much of the men's spare time was
						spent in exploring the country adjacent to the camp, many whiled away the hours between
						drills along the shell road that led to Jacksonville, that fine driveway that came into
						existence when northern generosity sent the suffering south more money than she needed
						or knew what to do with; others sought the shade under the solemn live oaks in Panama
						park and glanced in upon the concrete oval where some of the world's bicycle  records have been made. The chief amusement was fishing in
						the placid St. Johns at Cummers mill or at the railroad bridge at Trout Creek. Saturdays
						and Sundays found many disciples of Izaak Walton with line and net angling for drum and
						bass or devoting all energy to catching crabs, for it took two men to haul in a crab and
						then they generally missed him. There was so much sameness to the scenery and the men
						saw it always before them so they will never forget it were there nothing else but
						impressions of idle moments to fix it before them.
					For sixteen days now the regiment had been sweltering in awful heat; the burning sun
						was above and the burning sand beneath, filling all space with direct and reflected rays
						of intensest heat that drove the men moping to their tents. A small breeze about 10
						o'clock that came blowing its way so gently up from St. John's direction, as if it felt
						uncertain of its welcome, was all that made the day endurable. Between the hours of 12
						and 2 wisdom drove every man into the shade and regimental work had to wait for cooler
						hours. The chief blessing of that climate is in the cool nights; all that yellow pine
						grows in the night time; the humidity of the atmosphere is so dense that a man must
						either roll his clothes up and hide them or wring them out in the morning before
						dressing. Unaccustomed to such conditions, the men soon showed the effects of the
						change; acclimation was an impossibility; not for a citizen with home comforts, but for
						northern army men, yes. The number at sick call was gradually increasing and the eyes of
						some of the men were touched with a tinge of beautiful yellow. Then came the fever in
						terrific force, but it was a sickness the German calls "Heimweh," known in Camp Cuba
						Libre as "Home sick fever." It was not unmanly; going to Cuba was not
						a certainty; when it was the men cheered, although false reports of its heat still  more intense and of its yellow plague were not alluring.
						Let them fight, let them move--anything rather than an indefinite stay where they were,
						and the reason was legitimate, gainsay it he who will, and the same ground that
						justified the resignation of some of the army's highest officers and men of soundest
						judgment; and the funny part of it all was the farce played by the line officers before
						the colonel on the 3d of September, when each reported in turn a possible half dozen who
						were anxious to go home, and one a probable three or four who might go if the way was
						clear, while a regimental vote would have revealed eighty-five per cent. of the men with
						their hearts in Hoosierdom; in fact, a quiet ballot by the first sergeants resulted in
						ninety-five per cent., and a telegram of the information sent the governor. The next day
						was Sunday, and the time for the chaplain's evening service had come, and the pulpit was
						to be occupied by the colonel. The regiment was there, and it was a great and notable
						event. The colonel only asked for five minutes, and when urged to use the hour modestly
						replied that such a thing would be an impossibility, but when he got started, like all
						men who really have anything to say, he forget himself in the interest of his subject
						and what he said was a plenty. No one doubts to-day that he said the right thing; it was
						a searching speech, with plenty of sarcasm, plenty of encouragement and plenty of good
						advice, and the men went to their tents thoughtful and hopeful for the future.
					On the 3d of the month the inspector-general of the corps, Lieutenant-Colonel Curtis
						Guild, Jr., came to the regiment on a tour of inspection. He was a genial officer, and
						the men liked him. The tents were all in order for his inspecting eye and the men were
						in company front in the streets. Their guns and clothing and military knowledge were
						inspected. A beautiful face on an enamel  button was
						pinned to one man's coat. "Your sweetheart, I suppose," said the colonel. "Yes, sir,"
						was the polite answer. "I suppose you think a great deal of her," remarked the colonel.
						"Yes, sir," said the soldier. " Well," said the colonel, with a twinkle in his eye, "put
						her under the lapel where she can't be seen; it's not military."
					To another: " Well, young man, what would you do if you were a sentinel and an enemy
						should attempt to cross your line in the night?" "Present arms," was the prompt reply.
						"And you, my young man, what would you do if in the night time you discovered a fire in
						your captain's tent?" "Report it to headquarters, sir, through channels."
					Headquarters tents were then visited, and the staff lined up for inspection, a
						favorable report was rendered, and the inspector retired to Major Smith's
							tent.
					During the next few days some of the companies indulged in the beginnings of skirmish
						drill, and on the 6th the regiment was once more in line for a division review on the
						parade ground by the park at 5 P. M.
					On the morning of the 9th, Colonel Durbin was, by General Order No. 15, made commander
						of the First Brigade, in which capacity he served until October 14.
					This same day saw the departure of the Third Nebraska. Colonel Bryan had gone some time
						before on a sick leave and his regiment was now going to Pablo Beach. The regiment did
						not move as a whole and as the men passed through our camp on the way to the train a
						portion of the band before the colonel's tent played them a parting march as they moved
						through in a drenching rain, and the next day found the One Hundred and Sixty-first with
						a supply of sentry boxes that had been put together by Nebraska labor.



					


					On the 12th about fifty men were sent to the Recuperative Station at Pablo Beach. Lucky
						men! every one but one got a furlough home within fifteen days, and that 
							NUMBER NINE--RELIEF.
						 one preferred to grin and bear it out in the regiment, and accordingly
						returned. The same morning saw the departure of the Second Mississippi Regiment, which
						left a brigade of one regiment only in the camp. It was the privilege of the One Hundred
						and Sixty-first to clean up the camping site of the departing regiment, and after
						gathering out any lumber that could be advantageously used all else was burned, the city
						authorities took up the water pipes and the ground was left clean but forsaken. The
						Third Nebraska sent a detail back from Pablo to do this work on the ground they left,
						but of all camps that needed cleaning the one left by the First South Carolina needed it
						most; the  condition of men and camp on the day of
						departure was a fit matter of report to General Barclay by Major Megrew, field officer
						of the day; that some had more sickness than the One Hundred and Sixty-first is not
						strange in view of the contrast between their camp conditions; it was a matter of self
						protection that took a detail from the Indiana regiment into the filth and foul smelling
						odor left behind by these Carolina troops, and set fire to everything that would burn
						and filled all their sinks with sand.
					There is no question but that the idea of burning garbage instead of burying it is an
						excellent health preservative, and the "Backus Garbage Burner" will always invariably
						connect itself with the health status of the regiment. It is generally supposed that
						water will extinguish fire, but the lieutenant-colonel declared that the only thing
						science revealed was that when water and fire came together, one of the two would be
						consumed, from which he deduced the idea that if he had enough fire he could burn water.
						A little search revealed an old engine boiler made of heavy iron and lying rejected in
						the yards of Merrill Steven's Engineering Company in the city.
					The necessary purchase was made and the mammoth concern hauled to the rear of camp and
						there set up as shown by the accompanying illustration. A mighty fire that would have
						put the old time infernal regions to shame was there created and the colonel said "Bring
						on your garbage." Every thing that goes to make up slop was then brought, potato
						peeling, bread refuse, hardtack, tin cans, coffee leavings, dish water and all its other
						wet ingredients and into the fiery furnace it went; the flames licked up the water, then
						consumed the dry stuff and ended by burning up the ashes, while its designer looked on
						with a complacent smile. The garbage was dumped in above, the machine operated twice a
						day and consumed a half load of 
						
							BACKUS GARBAGE BURNER.
						
						 wood at each operation. The institution was presented to
						the Third Division Hospital on the regiment's departure and a somewhat smaller one
						procured at Savannah which did service throughout the stay in Cuba, where the locomotive
						was fired by Harry Rider, of Company F.
					For ten days after the 12th nothing of note occurred save the faithful work of the men
						at drill. Every morning from 7 till 9 battalion drills were on, and a regimental parade
						for every afternoon at 4:30. In looking back upon the work of these early days and upon
						the continual marching in review at "port arms" before the colonel one may discover the
						chief reason for that degree of excellence afterwards attained. It was not meant to pass
						in silence the narrow escape of our old friend Newton Burke, the wagonmaster; may he
						live long and prosper; his laugh was a cross betweeen a bantum cackle, a horse neigh and
						a sheep bleat; you can tell him in the next world if you're near him and he takes a
						notion to laugh. Others had escapes; Goodrich just missed a cork leg; the chaplain a
						swampy grave and Stott a humiliating death in the presence of the command, all on
						account of a horse--the first two from inferior horsemanship, but to manage the steed
						that Stott rode took skill and strength that few possess. Every one has seen the picture
						of Sheridan in his daring ride so highly tragic as he dashed along the line of his
						command, but Phil wasn't in it with Stott. He was mounted on "Kaki." Everyone knows Kaki
						and knows that if he could speak he could tell some ancient tales, but the way he flew
						up and down the lines that day was most surprising to Stott and made him think seriously
						of resigning his commission and joining the Rough Riders. But Newton Burke's experience
						beat them all. You see, Newton was the new wagonmaster, and, before the corral
						equipments came, had a few days of leisure and would see the wonderful country into
						which he had  come. Now, Newton should have known better
						than to get on Pete (pronounced as two syllables) for Pete would do anything for Sam
						Kahn and knew that Sam and Newton didn't get along very well, and consequently had it in
						for Newton; he couldn't dump the old man outright, for his purpose would have been too
						apparent, and so waited an occasion which came when a neighboring regimental band began
						playing as Pete and Newton were going along a ditch by the railroad. Now, Pete didn't do
						a thing to Newton but roll down the ditch and light on Newton with enough force to break
						his rib, and the latest is, that Newton got even with Pete by applying for a pension for
						being kicked by a government mule.
					September was a month of noted camp improvement. The latter part of the first week's
						work was begun on the guard-house and ended by erecting a veritable prison, which the
						men called the bastile, and a cut of which is on another page. Prior to its construction
						the men were lodged in the assembly tent, and called it a snap; but when put in the
						bastile the thing was different, and yet how seemingly strange that some men were
						willing to spend much of their time there rather than make an effort to be a good
						soldier.
					About the middle of the month the bath-houses were built, one for each battalion, and a
						little later, one for headquarters; then the mess-shacks were built, and the necessary
						work of this character at an end; provision for comfort, cleanliness and sanitary
						conditions had been made, but work did not stop here. Improvements continued; early in
						the month two poles were spliced, making one of enormous length, and raised before
						headquarters to bear the regimental flag, and at reveille and retreat the stars and
						stripes were raised and lowered as long as Camp Cuba Libre lasted. This ceremony is at
						once beautiful  and impressive, the flag going up to the
						music of "My Country, 'tis of Thee," and dropping slowly to the soft strains of the
						"Star Spangled Banner," as every man uncovers and lays his hat over the place of his
						heart. Witness it once and you will know the American loves his flag. Around the base of
						this pole was a seven-pointed star-shaped frame, filled with fresh sawdust from the
						mill, which, when the new pole was raised after the storm had broken the first one, was
						replaced by a mortar star, covered over with a pure white coat, imprinted with the name
						of the regiment's brigade and division. Later in the month, on the 19th, was begun the
						rustic fence running to the right of the regiment and bearing in letters, made from
						limbs, the regimental and battalion designations; the tall pines standing in the camp
						were dressed in a coat of white-wash; the walks along the officers' quarters were
						covered with sawdust, every visible root was grubbed up and the utmost pains taken in
						policing the ground, and when the end of the month was near and the news came that the
						honorable secretary of war was about to visit the corps, the camp of the One Hundred and
						Sixty-first was ready for any man's inspection.
					General Alger's visit to the Camp Cuba Libre was a notable event for the Seventh Army
						Corps and for the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana. The general was accompanied to
						the city by Surgeon-General Sternberg and General M. I. Luddington,
						quartermaster-general. The First and Second Division hospitals were inspected and the
						divisions reviewed; it was after four o'clock when the general and his party reached the
						Third Division hospital in the rear of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana camp. Not
						content to allow the surgeon to make these inspections alone, General Alger accompanied
						him, and together they walked through every ward on the grounds,  making inquiry as to needs and conditions, and speaking words of kindness
						and encouragement to the boys who were sick. The sun was going down as the general left
						the hospital and walked over into the camp of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana.
						He gave only a casual glance at the white-washed trees and the well-made sawdust
						side-walks but passed to the rear of the camp. It was on this occasion that he
						pronounced those words which caused the eyes of the whole Seventh Army Corps to turn
						upon the regiment from Indiana. He said the camp was "a marvel of neatness" and
						pronounced it a "revelation." It was dark when the Honorable Secretary of War reached
						the parade grounds to watch the Third Division pass in review before him; it was perhaps
						the only review of its kind ever held, and was a most interesting spectacle to the
						people who waited impatiently for the general to come; the moon was vainly endeavoring
						to get from behind the hazy clouds and was barely successful in keeping total darkness
						from covering the scene. One regiment could hardly be distinguished from another as they
						passed before the distinguished visitor, but there was one regiment different from all
						the rest, and when it had passed the general said to its commanding officer, "Colonel Durbin, that is the finest regiment I have ever seen." After the
						infantry came the cavalry and the pack mules, which latter afforded great amusement for
						the visitors as they kicked up their heels and dust and broke away in double time toward
						the corral which they much preferred to passing in review before the distinguished guest
						from Washington.
					It is needless here to comment upon the satisfaction to officers and men caused by
						General Agler's commendation of the camp and of the regiment. It shows duty well done
						and hard honest effort made to bring honor to the great commonwealth from which we came
						and we have a right to be proud of the record.
				




				

				

					CHAPTER V.
						
						CAMP CUBA LIBRE.

					October 1-23, '98.
					October was ushered in by a Saturday that brought its usual inspection and accompanying
						quiet while the men lounged around in the shade, or strolled away to the river. The sky
						was a little overcast in the afternoon and no one would have been surprised if an
						ordinary storm had blown down upon us, but as night drew its sable gown around us and
						the men lay down to sleep, none ever dreamed of the things he should behold on the
						morrow; but the fact was that a hurricane had arisen in the West Indies and was fast
						sweeping toward us over the south Atlantic coast. The storm struck us in the "wee small
						hours" of the night; the flags began their slap bang crack as the wind blew "great
						guns," and the rain poured down in torrents; the poles creaked, the tents swayed and the
						ropes tugged at the pegs, but they stood it well; yet a few went down in the night and
						their contents were blown over Duaval county, while a few hats were supposed to have
						crossed the St. Johns river. No one could sleep and either lay or sat up in their tent,
						expecting every moment to be buried beneath the groaning canvas. At 5 A. M. the storm abated and all hands were out to see the
						sights. It was a dismal scene that met the eye, but even while the men were talking of
						the night's experience, the elements began returning in all their fury; this time every
						blast that blew discounted one hundred fold anything the night had seen. The storm  seemed to grow fiercer with every passing moment; the tall
						pines moaned and strained their fiber as their tops came bowing to the ground, the
						flag-pole snapped and falling struck Sergeant Major Starr across the back a glancing
						blow that saved his life. One after the other the tents went down; the huge assembly
						tent was torn in shreds as the angry wind first blew it down and then played so fiercely
						underneath it; the wet soil had gathered tight around the pegs, but the houses were
						built on sand and true to prophecy fell. There was no waiting on orderlies then, but
						every man's hand was turned to save his property, and, while so engaged word came of
						needed help at the Third 
							STORM SCENE AT THIRD DIVISION HOSPITAL.
						 Division hospital. At once more men than could be used left their tents to the
						mercy of the wind, and went to render heroic service in caring for their sick comrades.
						By  reason of their size the hospital tents were harder
						to keep from going down, but they were held in place by main strength at the ropes while
						firmer fastenings were secured. Everything in camp was drenched and the men were cold,
						tired and hungry. Although the storm was abated by 1 P. M., a strong and threatening wind blew all day, and fearful of another night of
						similar experience, the colonel made arrangements with the Florida Central &
						Peninsula railroad to furnish passenger coaches for the comfort of the men and when they
						came out in the evening many of the men availed themselves of this opportunity to secure
						a good night's rest after the stormy events of that gloomy but stirring October day.
					On the 3rd the new hospital mentioned on another page and prompted by the generous
						impulse of Colonel Durbin, was begun and certainly did prove a blessing to the men who
						so quickly exhausted its accommodations. About this time a skin concern sent its advance
						agent into the camp with a proposition to take its convalescents and men with that tired
						feeling "down the St. John's river for an airing." The price was to be seventy-five
						cents per man and a fine clamchowder, coffee and ham sandwich dinner free for every man
						who went. The boat, a fair vessel with "Crescent" written on its prow, left the docks at
						Cummer's mill at 9:30 o'clock with two hundred and fifty men of the described character
						on board. The chaplain in charge gave the management credit for honesty, supposed the
						wonderful dinner was being held in reserve for the men, although sandwiches and coffee
						were being sold with marvelous rapidity at ten cents each, and when dinner time came the
						firm was very sorry but everything was gone but chowder, some sort of a red pepper
						solution through which a clam may possibly have crawled on his pinchers so elevated that
						the real thing never touched the water. It was  also
						evident that instead of taking the men out for their health they were taken out for a
						drunk, as beer and whisky were being sold freely; the bar was, however, ordered closed
						and a guard put over it. The boat finally arrived at Mayport an old stuck-in-the-sand
						town that betrays its beautiful name, where there was plenty of whiskey but not a thing
						to eat but dried beef and crackers. Lieutenant Johnson told the management the opinion
						of honest people in a very emphatic way, and the vessel was boarded for return and we
						came back a hungry, tired but wiser crowd with only one man wet outside and he fell off
						the dock in an effort to walk the gang plank. The following day the regiment was
						rejoicing in pay day and on the 7th the colonel was in possession of communications
						authorizing him to have his regiment ready to move to Savannah, from which point it was
						expected embarkation would be made for Cuba. Anywhere to get away from Jacksonville. Its
						people had been kind and many soldiers will always remember gratefully their
						introduction into the families and treatment by the good people of that place, but they
						were anxious to leave. Just what the Savannah trip meant they did not know--grape-vines
						were sprouting--an immediate departure for Cuba, a winters stay in Georgia--getting
						ready for muster out--but news of such a definite character was enough to fill the men
						with new life, for a volunteer hates stagnation and that is what the continued camp life
						at Camp Cuba Libre was, and so the men waited eagerly for orders to pack.
					It was on the 7th that the post exchange was opened, for business, the officer in
						charge being Lieutenant Hanson G. Freeman, Company M, Lawrenceburg. Sergeant C. B.
						Owens, Company G, was detailed as sergeant in charge and manager. Privates Will A.
						Taylor, Company M, and Otto Beard, Company C, were detailed as clerks. The  regiment having no funds to purchase goods with, the first
						bill, amounting to one hundred dollars, was bought on ten days' time but was paid off
						within five days after date of purchase, this being the only bill contracted for and not
						paid upon delivery during the entire existence of post exchange.
					The line of goods handled were always of the choicest quality, consisting of fruits in
						season, canned and bottled goods, cakes, crackers, fresh pies, nuts, candies, cigars,
						tobaccos, smokers' articles in general. The drinks served being soda water, lemonade,
						ginger ale and Hire's root beer; no intoxicants whatever were sold or handled in any
						way. From starting out with an original invoice of one hundred dollars, the stock on
						hand at different times would invoice two thousand dollars. Dividends would be declared
						monthly derived from the profits of the post exchange and distributed to the different
						companies of the regiment, the band, non-commission and hospital mess. The largest
						distribution for one month amounted to eight hundred and sixty dollars, this being in
						the month of March at Camp Columbus, Havana, Cuba. Lieutenant Freeman being the
						regimental commissary, asked to be relieved as officer of post exchange. Lieutenant Paul
						Comstock was appointed January 15, 1899, to take the place made vacant by Lieutenant
						Freeman. No changes were made in the force employed. The largest day's receipts amounted
						to three hundred and fifteen dollars. Total amount of cash given to regiment in the six
						months and ten days of its existence amounted to $2,460.00, besides other donations to
						the regiment amounting to about seventy-five dollars being made. The loss incurred in
						moving camps by reason of theft or otherwise amounted to five hundred dollars.
					One feature of the business in Cuba was the purchase of oranges in bulk by the wagon
						load, from five thousand to 
						
							POST EXCHANGE AT CAMP ONWARD.
						
						 six thousand being required to fill one of our army
						wagons. The wholesale prices of this luscious fruit ranged from five dollars to fourteen
						dollars per thousand, according to quality and quantity on the market. The first month
						in Cuba the post exchange handled eighty thousand oranges.
					Great credit is due both to Sergeant Owens for his careful management and to private
						Will Taylor for his long and faithful service as clerk.
					The first target practice of the regiment occurred on October 8. In the afternoon the
						regiment went to the rifle range and each company was assigned to two targets, and
						supplied with a thousand rounds of cartridges. Now was the time to put in practice the
						instructions given by that officer of the regular army who gathered the commissioned and
						non-commissioned officers of the regiment in the assembly tent and told them how to
						shoot; carefully calculating the distance, the resistance of the air and the parabola of
						the bullet they pulled the trigger; the old Springfields banged back into their
						shoulders with a vengeance that made them blue; the men looked for the red signals, but
						the target keepers generally forgot to wave them; occasionally a red sign would appear
						and describe now a horizontal and now a perpendicular or perchance a circle each of
						which every man that fired declared meant a "bull's eye." The regiment returned at 6:30
							P. M., and a few days later marched again to the
						range, but found that an order had been issued declaring the practice stopped.
					The drills were now being carried out at greater length, but the monotony of the
						wearisome "column right" and "left front into line," "to the rear" and "right forward
						fours right" and other preliminary movements was broken by the more interesting and less
						exhausting skirmish drill, the men dodging about in the bushes, stooping around by twos
						and fours, and little groups 
						
							SECOND BATTALION, SKIRMISH DRILL. CAMP 
								CUBA LIBRE.
						
						 snapping their rifles and making charges on an unseen
						enemy with yells that would scare the life out of a whole tribe of Sioux Indians.
					The 11th of the month brought with it another division review. General Hubbard, the
						division commander, was about to leave, and the review of this day was not only his last
						but it was the last time before leaving Camp Cuba Libre that the regiment was to be
						reviewed other than by itself, and when it was over the men fell back into the routine
						of the life to which they were by this time so well accustomed, and wondered when the
						order was to come in definite shape for the move to Savannah; this order, however, was
						delayed on account of the coming visit of the Washington board of inspectors. This board
						consisted of Evan P. Howell, of Atlanta; Charles Denby, of Indiana; Colonel James A.
						Sexton, of Illinois; D. C. Gilman, president of Johns Hopkins University; Dr. W. W.
						Keen, of Philadelphia, and General Grenville M. Dodge, of New York, and was appointed by
						President McKinley to investigate charges pertaining to the sanitary conditions of the
						army. The party arrived at noon on the 17th, and proceeded at once to the camps of the
						corps. They examined the sinks, and the baths, and the bakeries and the commissary
						stores, and thoroughly inspected the condition of every corral, the report returned to
						the president being on the whole a favorable one.
					The following day, at regimental review, General Hubbard was present and witnessed the
						parade, after which the regiment marched to his quarters, and forming in column of
						masses tendered him an appropriate farewell.
					The closing scenes of Camp Cuba Libre were enlivened by many an evening spent around
						the "camp fire" during the cool October nights of our last week on the banks of the St.
						John's river. The men of the various  companies were wont
						to gather round a blazing fire of pine knots and while away the long evenings with song
						and jest, and many a song of love and home was wafted on the soft winds that blew up
						from the old ocean. This was an every night occurrence; but now and then a general "camp
						fire" would be held, and around the huge fire a great circle would be formed, and in the
						light of the blaze the best talent of the regiment would entertain the boys and officers
						till "taps." Amateur boxers donned the gloves and administered the "solar plexus," Rudy
						gave his "coon" song and "nigger" dance; Jacobs did his "turn," and Sergeant Wolf
						delighted the assembled soldiers with his sweet voice. Will those evenings ever be
						forgotten, whiled away under the tall graceful pine trees and the beautiful night skies
						of Florida? They were the green spots in the Jacksonville desert, and will grow dear as
						the years go by "and fond recollections present them to view."
					On the 21st the order came directing the First Brigade, Second Division, to which, upon
						the corps reorganization, the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana had been assigned, to
						repair to Savannah on the evening of October 23, Sunday, of course.
					On the night of this same day just after "taps" the camp was aroused by the cry of
						fire; the guard on post near the railroad platform discovered a small blaze in a heap of
						rubbish in one of the abandoned stands near the regiment; he promptly gave the alarm and
						the guard assisted by numbers of the men of the regiment attempted to save the adjoining
						buildings but to no purpose as the light dry pine burned fiercely and the buildings were
						soon consumed. The pine trees near by caught fire and added luster to the scene and all
						the night around us was made as bright as the day while dense volumes of pitch black  smoke rolled up to make the heavens darker above us; the
						whole affair made a very respectable bonfire. The 22nd was a day of packing such as the
						day before our departure from Camp Mount had witnessed and with the dawn of the 23rd the
						business of getting out began. At 9 o'clock the signal sounded for the tents to fall and
						in three seconds every tent was flat. The freight was in and near the camp and by 6
						o'clock was loaded and ready to leave and soon thereafter the men were ready also but it
						became evident that a wait was in store for the regiment and as darkness began to fall
						camp fires were lighted and every one tried to make themselves as comfortable as
						possible. A little of this would have sufficed as the men were tired and supperless save
						the hardtack and such cold lunch as could be procured. The camp ground of the One
						Hundred and Sixty-first presented a scene that night that will be one of the lingering
						memories. Every company had from three to four fires as the nights were cold and all
						must be warm. There was a camp fire at Major Megrew's quarters and one where the
						colonel's tent had stood; many of the buildings had been reduced to lumber for
						transportation but plenty were left to burn and everything was ignited; the kitchens and
						mess shacks that were left standing were fired one after the other and the very sky was
						illumined by the conflagration while the scene was enlivened by stirring music from the
						band and then the men began to stretch themselves around the fire to wait while the
						flames dispelled the darkness and silhouetted their resting forms on the sand of Florida
						that was soon to be left forever. At 12:15 A. M.
						the first train came in and the first section, under command of Lieutenant-Colonel
						Backus and composed of the First Battalion and Companies B and F of the Second, went on
						board and started; Major Megrew also accompanied this section. The rest of the regiment
						waited till 2:30 A. M. before their 
						
							WAITING FOR THE TRAIN--CAMP-BREAKING AT CAMP CUBA LIBRE.
						
						 transportation arrived and hungry and sleepy were soon
						following the others on their way to the new camp at Savannah.
					A few days previous to our departure the regiment had been assigned to its new position
						in the Seventh Army Corps, which had on the 21st been reorganized as follows:
					
						CAVALRY BRIGADE.
						Seventh United States Cavalry.
						Eighth United States Calvary.
					
					
						FIRST DIVISION.
							FIRST BRIGADE.
						First Texas Infantry.
						Second Louisiana Infantry.
						Third Nebraska Infantry.
					
					
						SECOND BRIGADE.
						Ninth Illinois Infantry.
						Second South Carolina Infantry.
						Fourth Illinois Infantry.
					
					
						SECOND DIVISION.
							FIRST BRIGADE.
						One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Infantry.
						Second Illinois Infantry.
						First North Carolina Infantry.
					
					
						SECOND BRIGADE.
						Fourth Virginia Infantry.
						Forty-ninth Iowa Infantry.
						Sixth Missouri Infantry.
					

				



				

				

					
						CHAPTER VI. 
						
						CAMP ONWARD. 

					SAVANNAH, October 24-December 12, '98.
					When the first section arrived at Savannah at 9 A. M. the next morning it found the regimental impedimenta one hour in advance and
						Captain West's force busily engaged in getting the horses and mules out on "terra
						firma." In the unloading of the remaining freight the record was broken. The
						quartermaster and commissary supplies were handled with the accustomary dispatch but the
						transportation department, altogether out of harmony with the usual "southern hustle,"
						got in a hurry, and backing the cars into the freight yard, pitched the lumber, floors,
						tables, benches and boxes into a confused, tumbled, jumbled-up heap that looked like it
						had been struck by a Kansas cyclone or a Jacksonville storm. When the second section
						arrived one and one-half hours later, like the first it was served with coffee at the
						station before starting for camp. As the companies marched through the city the men
						crowded out of their stores and the women out of their homes and while the chambermaids
						waved sheets or pillowslips from the second-story windows the daughters used their
						handkerchiefs below and the populace on the sidewalk cheered the boys from Indiana a
						welcome as they passed, and on out the Thunderbolt road they marched to camp and stacked
						arms on the site which was to be their "stomping ground " for the next seven weeks; this
						time the regiment was less fortunate in the land reserved for them; it was low and  swampy, cut through by ditches and altogether undesirable
						for a regimental camping site; objections were made without avail and everybody prepared
						to make the best out of it. The company streets had all been staked off and an old
						dilapidated board and wire fence that ran through the length of Company K street was
						removed; a deep ravine ran along the right of the regiment and a large ditch almost
						through the center, which necessitated two thirds of the men to pass what they called
						"over Jordan" to affiliate with members of the First Battalion; the swamp prevented the
						First Battalion line officers' tents from being 
							HEADQUARTERS.
						 pitched in their accustomary place and both these and the battalion
						commander's tent were pitched toward the road along which ran the staff tents with the
						exception of headquarters  which were more comfortably
						located in an old house situated nearer the company tents and which has since burned.
						The colonel's tent was used for a guard house until quarters were prepared, and later,
						in the second week of November, the tents occupied by the staff were moved near the
						headquarters house and in a row with the Third Battalion line officers. The tents were
						pitched without floors and a couple of days were passed before sufficient material could
						be rescued from the debris at the freight yards to furnish them with that much-needed
						comfort and the tents that were all too small under Jacksonville conditions had room
						enough and to spare as the boys hugged up in spoon fashion to pass the night. Camp
						construction began at once, and while the colored men of chain and stripe cleaned the
						ditches and drained the camp the carpenters began their work and cook shacks sprang up
						along the rear as fast as material came in and in a week every company cook was under
						cover, bridges were built across the ditches, and after the third day the drills were on
						again.
					On the 27th the battalions marched to Thunderbolt, a Coney Island sort of a place; some
						of the companies fell out and some of the men fell in to a well stocked establishment
						and after waiting on themselves forgot the eighth commandment and told the men to
						"remember the Maine" for his pay; the battallions marched down past Bonaventure and
						returned along the other road by way of Dale Avenue drive. The next day occurred the
						first regimental formation on Georgian soil; the review, which was not the best ever
						given by the regiment, was witnessed by General Williston from his tent door.
					The drills began on the 29th with their usual regularity; a couple of days at close
						order and attention was devoted to the more important skirmish drill. A most suitable
						spot for extended order work was later found back of  the
						cemetery that lay near the junction of the road and street car track, and here in the
						underbrush and ravines and around the old Confederate breastworks the officers found
						ample room and excellent environment for scattering their men to the best advantage for
						such purpose. The last few days of the month brought to the line officers the usual
						burdensome necessity of getting the rolls in shape for monthly muster and the new month
						came in with the sound of hammer and saw at work on the commissary, bakery and guard
						house, while Anthony Montani took his sweater and clarionet and other articles and bid
						us all a fond adieu.
					The substantial structure that rose beyond the ditch to the regiment's right during the
						first week in November was prepared for the commissary, the bakery and the exchange, and
						was by conceded opinion the finest arranged building of its kind in the corps.
					Sunday was the 6th, and this day, as on other Sabbaths, the One Hundred and Sixty-first
						camp looked lonely by contrast; while southern regiments were swarming with visitors
						from Savannah; ours, the nearest to the city, was passed by with a glance over the
						fence; in this one respect, like the man who fell out of the ballon, we simply were not
						in it. Why this apparent thusness? is it so hard to forget? Let us be charitable and say
						they were unthoughtful, but Ivy said the young ladies didn't know what they were
						missing.
					The next day brought Major Wright, the colored paymaster. The major was assisted by his
						son, also colored, and encountered no embarrassment in disposing to the officers and men
						of the regiment the coin which the government had seen fit to entrust to his care; the
						major remarked of his respectful reception.
					In the afternoon General Green, accompanied by other distinguished officers of the
						army, reviewed the  division. The six regiments marched
						to an open field across the way from the Second Division hospital and stood in column of
						masses at attention for about thirty minutes while whole regiments of armed sand flies
						enjoyed an undisturbed picnic pestering the patience out of an army of men to whom
						military etiquette forbade interference, after which the division passed in review
						before the general, in whose honor it was held, before his departure for Cuba.
					On November 11 General Lee arrived at Savannah from his home in Virginia, where he had
						been in attendance at the bedside of his aged mother during her sickness, death and
						funeral, and which had necessitated an absence from his official duties for a period of
						several weeks, during which time the command of the corps devolved on General Keifer of
						the First Division. The general was accompanied to Savannah by Governor Tyler and a
						distinguished party of Virginians, both ladies and gentlemen. This was his first
						appearance at Savannah since the arrival of the corps at that point, and he was given a
						royal welcome both by the citizens of that beautiful and enterprising city and by his
						command. He immediately established his headquarters at the DeSota hotel and assumed
						command of the corps. One of his first official acts was the naming of the camp, which
						he designated "Camp Onward" in view of the onward march to Cuba.
					He immediately issued an order for a review of the corps, including all the troops
						under his command, which took place the following day in the city of Savannah in what is
						known as Forsythe Park Extension, and was witnessed by thousands of citizens of Savannah
						and neighboring cities and surrounding country, for whom it was a gala occasion. Most of
						these people had never seen any considerable body of troops together before, and were
						enthusiastic  in their demonstrations of approval. The
						One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana was tendered little short of an ovation upon its
						splendid appearance; its full companies, straight lines and excellent marching being
						commented upon for many succeeding days by its enthusiastic admirers who were numbered
						by the hundreds in the city of Savannah; the Press of the city was also effuse in its
						praise of the work of the regiment, giving it special mention in its account of the
						review and commenting at length upon its excellent appearance.
					The succeeding days brought with them the usual routine of camp life, unbroken by any
						event of interest. On Sunday, 13th, the camp site was inspected by a surgical board;
						complaints of a sanitary nature had been made from the day the regiment first saw the
						grounds and were about to result in an exchange of position between the regiment,
						brigade and division headquarters which would have furnished excellent locations of
						sufficient size for all, but owing to the speedy departure for Cuba the inspecting board
						advised a retention of positions then held. Com- pany E was at this time on duty at the
						rifle range, having been detailed there the 9th of the month to superintend the target
						practice of the corps. On the 16th Companies A, K, M and L went to the range for
						practice, the other companies having been there the day before; five shots at two
						hundred yards and five at three hundred were allowed each man, and the time was spent
						shooting at black Spaniards on boards, with results showing remarkable improvements in
						the art of war since the previous like experience at Jacksonville.
					On the 21st the quartermaster unloaded before his store-house twenty-four large boxes,
						and as the men lined up by companies each one received and was charged with a $11.49
						navy blue brass-button caparisoned overcoat.  They made
						every man look like Napoleon, but that wasn't what they were for; they were intended to
						shield the men from those cold blasts which the colonel told them next day at parade
						were sweeping over Hoosierdom and which came whizzing over the cotton belt a few days
						later and sent the men shivering to their tents right glad the authority was wiser than
						they, many of whom only a few days before had vigorously protested against any such
						needless and extravagant expenditure. The greater part of the drill during the middle
						portion of November was battalion extended order.
					Nothing of note occurred until the 24th, for which day the boys had been anxiously
						waiting and wondering what good thing it had in store for them. The day was ushered in
						with all the beauties of a typical autumn day in the south, and was given up wholly to
						pleasure. At 10 o'clock in the assembly tent a most excellent sermon was preached by the
						Rev. Mr. Smith, of the city; this was followed at the noon hour by elaborate spreads in
						each of the twelve companies of the regiment. The ladies of Savannah were in the dinner
						serving business out of most excellent motive, but on a plan hardly savoring of the
						generosity which could so easily have come from so large a populace so greatly benefited
						by the presence of so great a number of soldiers; we were to raise the money and they
						were to serve the turkey; but not out of any criticism, but simply with the feeling that
						the money once raised the serving would be a comparatively easy and pleasant task, while
						the good ladies were already over-burdened with an infinite amount of the same thing,
						the colonel made the preparation and the serving of the dinner a strictly regimental
						affair. The ladies were offended, but a due explanation once more bridged the chasm
						between the north and the south, and sweet harmony was restored.  The boys did not have the ladies but they had warm turkey instead and
						plenty of it. One thousand one hundred pounds of turkey were furnished by Armour &
						Co., to be accounted for in surplus meat. There were ninety gallons of oysters that day;
						there were cranberries and celery and mince pies and other delicacies which appeal to
						the inner man and which go hand in hand with the day thus observed. For once, hardtack,
						bacon and canned beef was but a memory which the very next day arose to haunt those who
						had partaken of the feast in the shape of a life-sized reality and to head off any
						tendencies to gout by reason of the gormandizing of the boys the day before. Only one
						kick was registered, and that of an enlisted man who having disposed of nine pounds of
						turkey, a quart of cranberries, two mince pies and other edibles in proportion kicked
						because his capacity for consumption went back on him at time so inopportune, but who
						was reconciled to his fate on hearing of the Thanksgiving dinner which the boys in the
						hospital had: poor fellows who were given a bit of turkey to chew, on the express
						condition of spitting it out just when it was in the best condition to swallow, and the
						cruel part about it was that some one was there to see that they did spit it out. In
						some of the officers' messes dinner, during which service the table fairly groaned under
						its load of good things, was postponed until evening in order, as some of the officers
						asserted, that they might "eat with the boys" but which knowing ones assert they did by
						reason of the fact that visions of two good dinners were in sight. The afternoon was
						given over to a diversity of amusements upon which the boys were privileged to attend;
						many cheered the picked baseball nine of our regiment while it secured a victory over a
						similarly chosen nine from the First North Carolina on the parade ground of our
						regiment; others attended the shooting match between picked teams of the best shots from
							 the Seventh Army Corps and the Savannah Gun Club at
						the rifle range of the latter east of the camp; still others witness the football game
						in which an eleven from the Second Louisianas contested for supremacy with the First
						Texas Knights of the Gridiron at the City ball park; not a few attended the matinee at
						the Savannah Theater or saw the Rough Riders in their exhibition at Thunderbolt.
					The day ended most auspiciously in the evening when some of the ladies of Savannah gave
						an elocutionary and musical entertainment in the assembly tent at which some of the best
						talent in the city appeared in the various numbers, a favor highly commendable and
						thoroughly appreciated; and thus the entire day was one joyous occasion that will long
						be remembered by every man in the regiment.
					The aforesaid festivities were followed on November 25th by a sham battle between the
						two brigades of the Second Division; the First Brigade was assigned to a position behind
						the huge earthworks thrown up east of Savannah for the protection of the city at the
						time of Sherman's famous march to the sea; the works in question remain intact although
						overgrown to a considerable extent by forest trees and shrubbery and are a grim reminder
						of the fruits of war in the terrible strife of '61 to '65. To hold these works against
						the attack of the Second Brigade was the duty assigned to the First Brigade; previous to
						leaving camp both brigades were supplied liberally with blank cartridges; the Second
						Brigade was given one hour's start of the First in which to afford them ample time to
						reconnoiter and decide upon their mode of attack; the First Brigade, with band playing
						and banners unfurled to the breeze marched out and took possession of the earth works
						and awaited the report of the scouts sent out in all directions to locate, if possible,
						the enemy and their probable mode of attack; in  the
						meantime the firing line was established and supports and reserves held in readiness,
						the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana being assigned to the firing line; in about one
						hour the sounds of occasional shots about one and one-half miles to our front indicated
						that our scouts had been discovered and were being driven in; shortly afterward they
						could be distinguished across the open country directly to our front through the
						undergrowth just beyond, hastily retreating, closely pressed by an under fire of the
						advance guard of the enemy; re-inforcements to cover their retreat were now sent out;
						the scouts having reached the edge of the open space between the enemy and the
						earthworks, took advantage of such protection as the country afforded firing as they
						came; having advanced to a sufficient distance to be no longer endangered by a fire from
						the earthworks, and a company of the enemy in close order formatoin having needlessly
						exposed itself about three-quarters of a mile directly to our front, Major Peterson, of
						the Third Battalion of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana, which occupied the
						center of the works, with the Second Illinois on our extreme right, and the Carolinas on
						our left, ordered the squads of his battalion on the firing line to fire by volley on
						the company thus exposed and which must necessarily have been riddled in actual
						engagement, which opinion the commander of the company in question evidently shared, for
						he immediately changed his formation from a close to an open order; re-inforcements
						quickly came up and the enemy continued to advance under heavy fire which now became
						general on both sides; they were practically subdued even before the support was ordered
						to the firing line, and with the result that much of the reserve of the First Brigade
						did not fire a single shot, although the entire force of the enemy was hurled against
						the works; needless to assert that the enemy was called off the field  by the judges of the occasion, competent officials of the
						regular army, and the battle awarded to the First Brigade as having thoroughly and
						effectively protected their entrenchments.
					During the succeeding few days the overcoats which had been issued a week previous were
						very much in demand, the temperature having fallen very perceptively, together with
						cold, drizzling rains, accompanied by biting blasts, which heralded the coming of one of
						the severest winters known in the south and throughout the states; woe to the luckless
						soldier whose finance was such that he could not possess the luxury of an oil stove;
						during the day he borrowed a warm-up from his more fortunate comrade or huddled up in
						his overcoat, backed up against a tree on the windless side in order that the full
						energy of the sun's rays might be spent to the best possible advantage in heightening
						the temperature of his anatomy; darkness overtaking him he huddled around a convenient
						camp fire in the company street, and at taps crawled between blankets and piled upon him
						all the sundry articles in his possession, such as trowsers, old shoes, socks, collar
						buttons and neckties, without even the formality of removing his hat, much less any
						other article of his wearing apparel. The quartermaster's ability to supply the demand
						for blankets was taxed to its utmost and he and his chief clerk were the most sought
						after individuals in camp.
					The only instance of note to mar the monotony of the period thus intervening was the
						issuance of the new United States magazine rifle, which occurred on the 28th; the rifle
						in question includes all the meritorious points of the Krag-Jorgensen, together with the
						improvements adopted by the government; the men were highly pleased and they
						relinquished with pleasure the old Springfields with which they had been armed.



					



					On the morning of the 30th occurred a regimental inspection that was the first and last
						of its kind. The regiment was lined up in heavy marching order and with open ranks while
						the colonel and members of his staff with polished boots and white gloved hands marched
						before them, between them and behind them while the colonel reminded them of neglected
						points of military toilet and attire and the officers made explanations of the same in
						writing after which the regiment passed in review and muster for pay began
					On the same day the new recruits began to arrive. The One Hundred and Sixty-first
						Indiana was the only regiment granted the privilege of recruiting at so late a date,
						which partially accounts for the unusually large companies that so pleased the visitors
						when this regiment passed before them in the parades and reviews down in Cnba. On
						November 5th Captain Stott was sent for this purpose to Indianapolis, the mustering-out
						place of the earlier regiments; he found only the One Hundred and Fifty-ninth, a very
						much discouraged lot of men and the work of recruiting went hard; all told one hundred
						and three men were secured, the larger number of whom left Indianapolis on the 28th, the
						others starting a few days later and arriving during the first four days of December.
						Sixty-nine of those who arrived on the 30th were mustered for pay after they stood for a
						short time in line before the old headquarters building and listened to a few words of
						welcome and advice from their new colonel; the others were mustered on arrival.
					The officers of the regiment were thus kept busy during the remaining days of the month
						arming the troops and in the preparation of the pay rolls for the month of November. On
						the morning of the 30th regimental review preceded the muster for pay and in the evening
						at regimental  parade Major M. R. Peterson, of the Third
						Battalion, severed his official connection with the regiment, his resignation having
						been accepted by the department at Washington that he might resume his duties in the
						regular army. His battalion having taken the assigned place on the parade ground,
						Colonel Durbin requested the major to take the position of honor on the right of the
						commanding officer of the regiment, who then proceeded in a few well-chosen words to
						express the regret of the entire command at losing such an efficient and painstaking
						officer. Major Peterson responded feelingly, expressing his regret at his enforced
						leavetaking and his best wishes for the future welfare of the regiment; the regiment
						having passed in review he assumed command of his battalion and in the battalion street
						formally took leave of the offices and men of his companies.
					On the following evening at regimental parade Major Lee M. Olds, past captain of
						Company A, occupied the post of honor on the right of Colonel Durbin, who, in the
						presence of the regiment, formally presented the new major with his commission issued to
						him by the governor of Indiana after which he reviewed the regiment. It was the next day
						the information became current that the Second Division was to start in a few days for
						Cuba and Colonel Durbin was notified to have his regiment ready to move by the following
						Tuesday. During the forenoon of the 5th the regiment took a pleasant march to Savannah's
						noted "City of the dead." Bonaventure is said to be one of the most beautiful cemeteries
						in America and the history and romance connected with it make it doubly interesting; the
						estate, first owned in colonial times by an English nobleman, was sold to John Mulryn,
						whose only daughter was given in marriage to Josiah Tatnall and the union was typified
						by planting those now aged and hoary  live-oaks in a
						monogram comprising the letters "M" and "T" still traceable in the shape of the sylvan
						aisles between the stately trees. Josiah Tatnall was a great soldier, serving 
						in the wars of 1812 and of 1846 and was commander of the Merrimac in its battle with the
						Monitor. He became governor of Georgia and lies buried to-day in Bonaventure near the
						spot of his birth. The place is full of sacred associations and its gigantic trees, hung
						with their long hoary moss tresses, seem to speak of mourning and of weeping.
					In view of the fact that the Second Division was to move so soon, an order for the last
						corps review on American soii previous to our departure was issued by General Lee.
						December 6, the day designated, was a delightful one for the occasion; all business was
						practically suspended  in the city during the review,
						and the residents of Savannah gathered by thousands at Forsythe, the park extension, to
						witness the imposing spectacle. On this occasion, as on November 12, the review was a
						complete success, in which the One Hundred and Sixty-first added to its already enviable
						reputation, again securing special mention in the press of Savannah.
					Right in the center of this great field of flashing steel and union blue was the statue
						of a confederate soldier standing erect on his handsome pedestal. He gave no sign of
						interest in the passing of so many thousands of soldiers; he saw the stars and stripes
						go by, but did not uncover; he watched General Lee ride past on his handsome gray
						charger, but did not bring his gun from parade rest; many a soldier wondered what he
						thought of it all, but we venture that he was glad to see the Yankees from the north and
						the sturdy western boys marching with proud step side by side with the men from Virginia
						and the Carolinas, and in it saw the evidence of a reunited nation, grand and great, and
						rejoiced with them in the mission they were going to accomplish.
					Upon the return to camp the initial preparation for departure began, as the arrival of
						the transport was daily expected. The company tents were to be left, and all officers'
						tents were taken with one exception. Captain Guthrie was highly elated over an ingenious
						contrivance for heating his tent; he knew what destruction a lamp had caused before, but
						scorning experience he passed many a comfortable night while his less ingenious fellow
						officers were breathing hard to warm the space underneath the covers. The midnight hour
						of December 8 had passed when the explosion came which covered the captain and
						everything inside with burning oil. Unlike the men of another fire who came out
						unsinged, the commander of Com Company I came forth
						bearing the marks of his disaster, which disappeared in a day or so and left him as good
						as new, but the tent and most of its contents never went to Cuba. On the 8th Colonel
						Durbin assumed command of the brigade. The Mobile arrived late in the evening of the
						9th, and all the day following all floors and building, 
							PACKING UP-CAMP ONWARD.
						 the reduction of which to lumber form had occupied several days previous, were
						hauled to the wharf, and during the forenoon of the 12th the wagons of the Forty-ninth
						Iowa and Fourth Virginia, which were at the regiment's service, its own and its mules
						having been put aboard the Roumania, bound for Cuba on the 8th, hauled the regimental
							 baggage to the docks, and shortly after the noon hour
						on December 12 the regiment broke camp, and at 1 P. M. the march to the docks began, arriving about 3 o'clock. Owing to the ample
						facilities for the loading of both troops and baggage on the transport Mobile, now the
						Sherman, there was little delay in getting all on board. In addition to the One Hundred
						and Sixty-first Indiana there was aboard the vessel one battalion and the band of the
						Second Illinois Volunteer Infantry, one or two companies of the signal corps, one
						company of the Fourth Virginia Volunteer Infantry, the Seventh Army Corps provost guard,
						General Williston with a portion of his staff and many other officers and men of various
						detachments, in all to the number of probably two thousand souls with baggage and
						supplies in endless quantities. Colonel Durbin being in command of the troops, and
						Colonel Backus being executive officer of the boat, Major Megrew was in command of the
						regiment. All men and officers being detained on board, the evening was spent in
						conversation, and at an early hour all were in their berths and bunks. The vessel lay
						alongside the dock until morning, and at 7 A. M.
						on the morning of the 13th the tug Marguarite started the great vessel down the river,
						cutting loose at 9:30; after fifteen minutes more the Estill took the pilot from us and
						we started on a calm sea toward the "Pearl of the Antilles."
					The Mobile is an English-built vessel, and was formerly a freighter and cattle vessel.
						She was purchased from the Atlantic Transport Company by the United States government
						and refitted for the purpose of carrying troops. She is a twin-screw steamer capable of
						making seventeen knots an hour. The dining-room and officers' quarters are roomy and
						well furnished, while the men were provided with comfortable beds of wire springs and
						cotton mattresses arranged in tiers three in height. The Georgia shores 
						 
						 having been lost to view, no land was sighted until the
						following morning. At 11 o'clock the first and each succeeding day inspection of
						quarters was held; every man 
							"MOBILE"--OFF FOR CUBA.
						 was ordered below and proper inspection made as to cleanliness and
						ventilation.
					Major Smith, of the First North Carolina, assisted by Major Longstreet, division
						commissary officer, and Lieutenant Welsh, of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana,
						was in charge of the distribution of rations; three times a day the men were served with
						warm meals. Details from each company went into the kitchen, the food when cooked was
						placed on tables and the men, two companies at a time, filed by and receiving their
						portion ate it wherever most  agreeable within limits of
						their restriction, The two thousand men were fed in about forty-five minutes.
					During the entire next day the vessel steamed along with the sandy beaches of Florida
						plainly in sight; at 10:45 A. M. we passed Palm
						Beach and as darkness again set in we were nearing the southern coast of the peninsular
						state; the last light-house on the Florida keys was sighted at 9 P.
							M.; the keys were passed during the night and at daybreak no land
						was visible until about 8 o'clock when the shores of the stricken island for which we
						were bound could be dimly discerned in the distance; arriving off Havana we cruised in
						the waters of the gulf to a point opposite what was afterward the site of our camp,
						waiting for a pilot to take us ashore when orders were received from General Green
						directing us to come in to the Havana harbor for the purpose of disembarkation; at about
						10 o'clock the Mobile entered the mouth of Havana harbor directly under the guns of the
						famous Morro.
					As we glided along through the narrow entrance to the harbor, the frowning guns of old
						Morro and the antiquated fortress, Punta, hovering over us, as it were, on either side,
						not unlike the vultures which soared in countless hundreds, to our front, to our rear,
						above us and in all directions, the scene was absolutely indescribable and beggars
						description. Every nook and corner which afforded standing room on the walls of Moro
						Cubannas or the Punta was crowded with Spanish soldiers looking down on us, silent and
						sullen. Every house-top, balcony or window, the shores, docks and vessels in the harbor,
						were thronged with multitudes of a strange looking people representing almost every
						nationality of the earth, a condition existing in all tropical countries. The cheers of
						the two thousand of Uncle Sam's boys on board the transport who thronged the upper decks
						or balanced themselves in the  rigging of the vessel,
						when the two bands on the ship struck up "My Country 'Tis of Thee" was answered in a no
						uncertain manner by the foreigners on shore and ship. 
							MORRO CASTLE.
						 Steaming thus slowly down the harbor, the climax was reached when we hove in
						sight of the wreck of the Maine, the broken and twisted mass of iron, visible above the
						surface of the water, illustrating as nothing else can do how over two hundred of our
						brave boys met death and now lie at the bottom of the harbor, victims of the treachery
						of an unscrupulous foe. Every head was uncovered and not a sound was uttered as the band
						struck up the "Star Spangled Banner." The stillness was almost oppressive, as all eyes
						were upon what was once the pride of our navy, now a worse than useless mass lying
						deserted off a foreign coast, a  monument, as it were,
						to the boys who lie in their watery graves beneath. The sublimity of the occasion and
						its attendant incidents are beyond description. Heads were bowed and eyes tear-stained
						and it was with effort that the boys on board controlled the emotions surging through
						their hearts, and many experienced a choking sensation that they suppressed with
						difficulty. As if to add to the impressiveness of the occasion, the U. S. Topeka began
						firing a salute of thirteen guns. Passing a little beyond the charred and blackened
						wreck, we cast anchor under direction of the harbor pilot; this we had scarcely done
						when the transport was boarded by Lieutenant Fitzhugh Lee, Jr., bearing messages as to
						the disposition of the troops aboard. A few minutes later our corps commander,
						Major-General Fitzhugh Lee, accompanied by members of his staff, in a steam launch of
						one of the American battle ships in the harbor, hove in sight. His appearance was the
						signal for a spontaneous outburst by the boys aboard, who made the ancient harbor sound
						and resound with their cheers for their beloved commander. Shortly after the noonday
						mess had been served we struck anchor and proceeded to the docks where we lay until the
						following Saturday morning, during which interval the immense cargo of supplies and
						baggage had been unloaded and the disembarkation of the troops began, much to the
						pleasure of the boys, who, having been five days and nights aboard, had grown tired of
						the transport, the strange sights and unfamiliar scenes about them and were anxious to
						go ashore.
					The regiment had been preceded by a detail of men in charge of the corral contingent
						and other regimental property. On the 7th Lieutenant Anheier, by order of Colonel
						Durbin, selected as a detail of men to accompany him on this mission Corporals Imes,
						Holdridge and Gorman and Privates Stanley, Reynolds and Hurst, of 
						
							WAGON TRAIN ON ITS WAY TO CAMP.
						
						 Company I, and Private McAdams, of Company H. Sergeant
						Owens, of Company H, Ralph Robinson, Corporal Wilson and Sam Kahn were also to accompany
						the party. They went aboard the transport Roumania about 8 P. M. the evening of the 7th. The First North Carolina were on board.
						Seven regimental horses were in charge, two ambulances, twenty-seven wagons and
						seventy-nine mules. The vessel left at 5 A. M. on
						the 8th, arriving before the harbor the night of the 10th, and waited until Spanish law
						allowed it to enter after 6 A. M. the next
						morning. By 6 P. M. mules and wagons were unloaded
						and the mules corraled by a long rope stretched down a wide street.
					Those nights were wild ones in Havana--nights of quarreling and wrangling and shooting,
						and it was the first night that the much-commented-upon riot occurred at the Hotel
						Inglaterra in which five Cubans were killed. By noon of the next day, all effects
						unloaded, the wagon train was ready to start for the ground that was to be the camping
						site for the Indiana regiment. A guide was secured, and under a hot sun the journey was
						begun.
					The camp was reached about 4 P. M. on the 15th.
						The wagons were used to bring the corps headquarters effects from the wharf to Buena
						Vista.
					When the regiment arrived the property was turned over to proper authority and
						Lieutenant Anheier reported with his men to the regiment.
				



				

				
					
						CHAPTER VII.
						
						
						HAVANA TO CAMP COLUMBIA. 

					The pen seems reluctant to write; not that the heat and dust and final fatigue which
						belong to the experience of this never-to-be-forgotten day, are things hard of
						description; such are common place, the mere mention of which suffices, but that the
						scenes which were ours to witness: the unbounded enthusiasm, the unrestrained
						manifestation of welcome, the glad shouts of happy-hearted people and the feelings which
						stirred the soul of the American soldier, are simply indescribable.
					The troops were in command of Colonel Durbin, who, with his staff of brigade officers,
						headed the moving column. The One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana was in command of
						Lieutenant-Colonel Backus, while Major Holman G. Puritan commanded the Third Battalion
						of the Second Illinois, which followed immediately in the rear.
					Our regiment alone would have been the largest body of volunteer soldiers that had yet
						passed through, but with the above-mentioned battalion of the Second Illinois there were
						in all about fifteen hundred men in column on this memorable occasion.
					The One Hundred and Sixty-first band of thirty-two pieces, ten snare drums, four fifes
						and eight bugles, marched in its accustomed place behind the regimental staff. The
						Illinois Battalion was headed by their regimental band. The great column began to move
						at 8:50 A. M. It marched through one or two minor
						streets, then up Cuba  street, until it arrived at
						Rigla, one of the principal business streets of the city; through this street, or city
						lane, as they all might be more properly called, by reason of their uncomfortable
						narrowness, the column passed until it reached the Prado; passing to the left of Parque
						Central it moved out Principe Alfonso, and from here wound its dusty way for five miles
						more, until at 2:10 o'clock we were in the vicinity of Quemados, at the allotted place
						for the staking once more of tents.
					It was, indeed, a triumphal entry and passage through the city. If ever there was
						tendered a more enthusiastic reception to an army of men history has failed to record
						it. From its beginning to a point far beyond the city limits, at which place the
						multitudes were turned back by the Spanish guards, its memorable scenes will make a
						glorious chapter in the history of that people and in our own. Thus far in our
						experience it was the one thing that paid every soldier of us a thousand times and more
						for his enlistment. All the heat, all the sickness and homesick-of those sultry days at
						Jacksonville were forgotten in the midst of the glad excitement and grand demonstration
						that gathered round us on our march.
					The man who wanted to go home was now glad he came and he beheld things it is the
						privilege of few to see.
					Other military processions have been longer; many times our number over have followed
						behind the royal standard of an Alexander, a Caesar, or a Napoleon. Our own people in
						the sixties received the boys in blue as they "came marching home again" with a joy and
						an enthusiasm that knew no bounds and that memorable review of May, '65, when the
						assembled army of the Union marched through the Capital city of our nation can never be
						surpassed for glory, or grandeur, or the accompanying display  of a rejoicing people; but these were different and this is the first
						instance in the history of the world where a nation marched its army into a land it had
						saved from the oppression of a tyrannical master. These people were therefore not only
						happy; they were grateful and their enthusiasm for that reason the more uncontrollable;
						was therefore the more soul stirring for every one who witnessed it.
					Every one was in high spirits. The band played so well, so much and with so much vigor
						that the wonder was they had enough wind to reach the camp; the men when in cadence step
						marched with utmost pride; the crowds shouted and even the horses seemed to catch the
						enthusiasm which swayed the multitude of soldiers and of people.
					It was a proud moment for the American soldier when for the first time he took off his
						hat to his own beautiful flag on foreign soil. It was waved from a balcony on our right
						shortly after the march began, the Stars and Stripes that made the people free! It
						greeted us with a world of meaning. The business part of the city was not so thoroughly
						Cuban as the residence portion and as our moving column filled the narrow avenues whose
						only virtue is that the ladies can "shop" from one side to the other, thereby getting a
						maximum variety of prices at a minimum cost of fatigue, we met the gaze of many who
						doubtless wished us safe at home, or worse.
					Now and then an American flag was unfurled from some of the crowded balconies above us,
						but as the regiment proceeded the enthusiasm ran higher and the crowd that kept
						continually pouring in from all sides would have completely choked the street, had such
						a thing been possible before so large a body of moving men. At the end of Rigla street
						"halt" was given to rest the men and to clear an entrance for the regiment into the
						Prado and from this time until the column had passed the Spanish guard-line,  the enthusiasm and excitement grew with every square we
						marched.
					It was the chief delight of the barefooted Cuban boys, of the swarthy young men and in
						fact of the entire Cuban element to clear the way of any obstructing vehicle whose
						driver chanced to be a little tardy or a little stubborn in turning into the side street
						to give the regiment its needed room for passing.
					It was in one of the wider streets that a heavily laden cart was encountered, but the
						regiment was marching in columns of platoons and it was evident that either the regiment
						must turn back or break into column of fours or the driver must right about face and
						wheel to the rear. The colonel thought it would be easier to move the cart than the
						regiment and although he had scarcely been on the island an hour he did not experience
						the least difficulty in making his wishes known; the jubilant Cubans charged upon it
						with a vengeance. "Fuera," (get out) they cried and never gave the driver a chance to do
						it but with an amazing economy of ceremony they siezed the concern by the bridle and by
						the wheels and hustled the whole lumbering affair into a side street in a way not
						calculated to leave its occupants in the sweetest possible humor; and they were not, for
						they were Spanish guards on a cart loaded with commissary supplies; they remonstrated
						and though they were recipients of some vituperation and a little mud, they did not
						resist for they had had their day and seemed to know it; but all along the route be the
						vehicle a Spaniard's or a Cuban's it must needs leave the passage clear and woe betook
						him who hesitated, especially if he were a Spaniard. The Spanish street car driver had a
						long gauntlet to run, but it was nothing worse than hisses and biting sarcasm sprinkled
						with a trifling bit of mud or an occasional spray of Cuban saliva.



					


					As the regiment took up its course through Alfonso street it became evident at once
						that we were to pass through a residence portion of the city occupied by the more
						influential class of Cubans. The houses, dressed in Cuba's characteristic colors of
						white, light blue and pink, presented a better and more substantial appearance, though
						everywhere was the iron-barred windows which gives to the city at the first impression
						the suspicious air of a huge penitentiary (and makes one curious to know what is going
						on within). And now the display of stars and stripes and the Cuban flag grew more
						profuse. They were run up the flag-staffs, Old Glory always above; they waved from the
						housetops, they hung from the balconies, they stretched across the porches, or, better
						still, waved us their salute from the hand of some beautiful senorita. The wealthier and
						more cultured were satisfied to crowd the porches and balconies, but those whom the
						world has been pleased to call the common people packed the streets from the buildings
						to each side of the moving column. They ran before, they followed behind, they pressed
						along the sides, singing, dancing and filling the air with "Viva Americano," "Viva
						Cuba." A strange conglomeration of an amalgamated people; some with skins as black as
						Plutonian night, or ebony, if that is blacker, some as brown as any Malay, and some as
						fair as any Caucasian can ever hope to be. The eyes of these half-clad people sparkled
						with unaccustomed luster and delight. They would kiss the American flag and shout "Viva
						McKinley," while occasionally one more wrought up than others must needs give vent to
						his feelings in some emphatic oration; with wild gesticulations and a highly-strung
						husky voice, he would beat his uncovered breast and shout away at an angry woman's rate,
						stamping Spain into the dust beneath his feet, and lauding Americo and Cubano to the
						skies; at  least we thought he did, for this much we
						understood: that Spain was "mucho malo" and America and Cuba "mucho bueno."
					From the windows and doorways and porches and balconies and steps were waved beautiful
						silken flags, bright colored handkerchiefs and fancy Castillian fans, accompanied by the
						nodding heads and gracious glances of Cuba's fairest ladies. We were all acquainted and
						the formality of etiquette was forgotten, and if any soldier was fortunate enough to
						faint or fall out at such a place he was immediately envied by every
						stalwart man in ranks.
					Frequent stops were made to rest the men and on one occasion the halt was made with
						the, head of the column before what was apparently the residence of a wealthy family.
						Two large and handsome flags, America's and Cuba's, were crossed before the steps
						leading to its entrance. As the ladies seized the stars and stripes and waved them to
						greet us, the adjutant requested the band to play "The Star Spangled Banner." At the
						first note every hat was removed and the scene that followed can never be forgotten.
						Every one was loaded with bouquets; the bridles of the horses were filled with roses and
						every mounted officer covered with flowers as fair as the sun ever shone upon. They
						carried us the coolest water, the finest wines, and imported brandy and the choicest of
						Havana cigars. Cheer upon cheer filled the air and touched the heavens with their volume
						while the band played their soul stirring music, now the One Hundred and Sixty-first,
						again the Second Illinois and sometimes both. As the column once more took up its march
						toward its destination a great number who had followed all the way pushed on before, men
						and women of assorted colors, middle aged and children; they stripped the trees of their
						long green branches and holding these aloft they led us on out the road through  Cerro, chanting some fantastic air and keeping time with
						their feet which threw them all into a strange sort of swinging gait which continued
						'till they reached the Spanish guard line, where falling to the side they watched the
						"big soldiers" pass and then slowly took their tired selves back to their humble
						homes.
					The regiment had now reached the Spanish barracks, about six miles from the heart of
						the city; the band played and the Spanish guard turned out in double column on either
						side of the road; they came to a "present arms" while we marched past at "port arms."
						This much must be said for the Spanish officers that they treated American soldiers with
						all proper respect and consideration, saluting in a most respectful manner when it was
						proper to do so. If you could put yourself in their place you could better appreciate
						their feelings and therefore better appreciate their courtesy. The Spanish soldiers had
						had an experience of which he had long since wearied; the poor unpaid and half starved
						fellow had grown tired of chasing a foe who, like a phantom, always evaded him while all
						around him his comrades were dying by the score, of fever instead of falling in open,
						honorable battle, and when the "boys in blue" came he knew what all the world knew, that
						he was fighting a hopeless battle. The humblest of them were reserved and respectful.
						From the Spanish barracks the regiment moved silently along the dusty highway through
						Puentes Grandes and Ceiba out to its destined camping place by Quemados.
					High up on the right, and just beyond Cerro, a Spanish fortification frowned down upon
						us. Around it was the ingenious and formidable barb wire obstruction, with a depth of
						eighteen feet, interspersed with posts three feet high and interwoven with wire; it made
						a difficult and almost imposble approach for the enemy. The exposure while cutting 
						
							A CUBAN CAMP. (SEVENTEEN TENTS ARE
									IN THE ROW.)
						
						 it and the certain entanglement consequent upon any
						attempt to pass over it when cut, placed the approaching force too completely at the
						mercy of its foe. With the 
							BARB WIRE DEFENSE.
						 proper entrenchment behind, it is hard to conceive of a better device for
						holding an enemy at bay. It will have a part in the fortifications of the future.
					Now and then along the roadside and dotted over the country, there came in view the
						notorious Spanish "block house," some hexagonal in shape, some round, the majority
						square; some one, some two stories high; masonry work of no considerable strength whose
						chief and indeed valuable service consists in affording a shelter place from which to
						fire. So many were they that it was impossible for any considerable number of men to
						pass through the country  without coming repeatedly
						within reach of their firing distance.

					
						BLOCK HOUSE. 
					

					Nothing further of interest can be noted, save everywhere the beauty and fertility of
						the country--the stately palms, the bananas, the cocoas and other products of the rich,
						red soil.
					At Beuna Vista the regiment passed the Seventh Army corps headquarters, and in twenty
						minutes the First North Carolina and the Second Illinois saw us marching by to occupy
						our allotted place in Camp Columbia. The boys were tired and glad to drop down for a
						good rest. The day's march was over, but the memory of it will ever be fresh in the mind
						and its scenes forever live before the eyes of every soldier who participated in it, and
						Old Glory, too, will always have a deeper meaning and a richer splendor because of the
						experiences of that day.
				



				


				
					
						CHAPTER VIII.
						
						
						CAMP COLUMBIA. 

					December 17, '98-January 31, '99.
					Upon arrival Colonel Durbin reported the same and relinquished the command of all
						troops other than the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry. The
						companies marched each to their places as designated by an officer of the engineer corps
						and threw themselves down for a rest. The regiment had been given what seemed to us the
						most unlovely spot on all the island, but around us in every direction was a panorama of
						wonderous beauty; behind us the green fields adorned with magnificent palms stretched a
						mile away to Quemados and Marianao, whose red tiled roofs would have been visible ten
						times as far away, and twenty miles in the distance, over nature as fair as God had ever
						made, rising in clear outline against the sky to our left were the northern limits of
						the Blanquizar mountains. On the gentle slope to our right were pitched the tents of the
						Second Illinois and the First North Carolina and beyond them the brigade and division
						headquarters, and just before us, three miles that looked like one, lay the shining
						waters of the Florida straits that washed the shore of the island and lost themselves
						far in the dim distance that it gave the men day dreams of the land they knew the waters
						touched far away in the north.
					It was the slowest camp pitching the regiment ever experienced, first because the men
						had nothing to pitch and secondly the next day when the quartermaster's supplies  did come the boys experienced great difficulty in driving
						the wooden pegs into the stone upon which the camp was stationed.
					It was one collossal rock here and there sticking its face above the soil, but never
						sinking more than six inches below. Some one had blundered in the loading of the vessel;
						the tent poles were at the bottom and it was impossible for the quartermaster to furnish
						the regiment tents the first day, and that night the boys stuck up their guns and hung
						them with their ponchos, threw up their little shelter tents or, in good old
						patriarchial way, took the soft side of a stone for a pillow and slept out under the
						Cuban skies. Some of the officers did likewise or pitched such old tents as could be
						found, and night closed over a strange scene, such as might be taken for an army resting
						from a hot chase of a retreating enemy.
					Some of the men received cots for this first night and the next day the issue was
						completed; this was a new luxury for soldier life and when placed in the large tents,
						also provided for the first time, one for six men, gave as much comfort as a soldier
						could reasonably expect. Quartermaster and commissary supplies and headquarter stuff
						were piled in a seemingly promiscuous heap.
					The following day, December 18, was spent in "improving the land." It was quarry
						work--piles of stone were raked together and hauled away, a stone fence demolished and
						other necessary but rocky work undertaken.
					At the close of the day tents sufficient to shelter the men were up; the headquarters
						were still jumbled together and remained so for a week. The officers ate what they could
						procure and paid outrageous prices for it, and the Cuban bread, sweet-meat and orange
						venders were in clover. They gathered in groups around the camp, a motley set of people,
						shoeless, the most of them covered  with straw hats and
						linen pants and a part of a shirt and every one with his cuchillo (knife) hung in its
						leather case inside his pants at the waist. They had oranges dumped on the ground, four
						for five, jelly in cakes and sweet meats of innumerable variety and color; they jabbered
						their mother tongne at the boys and taught them Spanish, but the most that most of us
						learned was to say "quanto" and get skinned a little in the change.
					Now was the time for the capturing of prizes and the gathering of relics; the Cuban who
						could tell the biggest lie was the man who made the sale; later, "machetes" and
						"mausers" became ordinary weapons of war that sold for a few dollars without a history,
						but during those early days one could almost see the blood dripping from the famous
						machete and hear the dying yell of an innumerable host of Spaniards shot down by this or
						that rifle as they were brought near the camp by some illustrious patriot "del ejercito
						Cubano." It was in these days that Lieutenant-Colonel Backus made his wonderful find and
						he didn't ask any one to believe his story; there was the history of the rifle written
						under his own eye by the Cuban himself, and our own regimental Cuba should read it,
						which he did, and --"never mind the history!"
					On the 22d the headquarters were established in their proper place, but an objection
						had in the meantime gone to corps headquarters concerning the unfavorable location of
						the camp, and on December 22 General Lee, accompanied by General Williston, rode over
						the ground and ordered all clearing work to stop. For a few days the men seemed to
						wander at will and began to explore the neighborhood; but reports of yellow fever in the
						vicinity caused the guard lines to be drawn very close and no one was allowed to leave
						the camp.
					Seven miles south of Camp Columbia are the Vento 
						springs, beautiful and powerful, which supply Havana with the purest water and from
						which water was to be furnished the Seventh Army Corps; but until the piping work was
						completed, all the water used was hauled in barrels from a spring beyond Mariano, two
						and one-half miles away. There was consequently at first a scarcity of water. One does
						not need to mention it, but the regiment needed a bath; and on December 23 the entire
						regiment marched three miles away to the sea coast, near Playa, and turned its coral
						beach for a brief time into a big bath tub for twelve hundred men. Some got clean and
						some got something else--they got their feet filled with big black porcupine bristles
						that stung and caused the feet to smart and swell, and then they got to ride home in the
						ambulance, as did others who preferred to ride and therefore "didn't feel very
						well."
					Christmas was near at hand--a few selections by the band--a few thoughts homeward, and
						its eve had gone. The next day ushered in a day like one in August at home. On the knoll
						among the scattered supplies the chaplain held a little Christmas service. It is said
						that the staff also had a little time at mess. In his turn each one entertained the
						rest, save the chaplain, who had gone to take Christmas dinner with one of the companies
						whose officers had generously provided their men with turkey and other good things. The
						staff did not have turkey--Lieutenant Wilson had purchased one, but it
						was too fat. He could thin it down a little for New Year's day, so he made a
						"reconcentrado" of it, and shutting it up in a pen began his cruel process of
						starvation. By New Year's day he had a dead turkey, and the staff had ham for
						dinner.
					On Christmas day one officer and five men from each company were allowed to be absent
						from camp till 6 P. M. The same allowance was made
						in other regiments. The wisdom of restricting passes is at once apparent, considering
							 the existence of three armies whose soldiers might
						come in conflict, and the serious consequence that might result from disorderly
						conduct.
					Considering the American pretense and what the nation stands for before the world, and
						the consequent example of sobriety and manliness its soldiers should place before a
						people whom we have dared to call less civilized than ourselves, it is deplorable that
						even officers should so conduct themselves in abuse of the above privileges that there
						must needs come down the evening of the same day an order to the effect that owing to
						the disgraceful conduct of some of the Seventh Army Corps officers, no more passes would
						be issued. It is not an attempt at self-justification, but due the officers of the One
						Hundred and Sixty-first to say that investigation exonerated those absent from camp from
						any suspicion that the above charge rested upon them. A drunken officer is less of a man
						because of his straps.
					It had now been decided to turn the camp about, practically end for end. Such a move
						necessitated a like change for appearance sake of the two other regiments in the
						brigade, but when the change was made the entire brigade not only presented a better
						appearance, but occupied a better and more convenient position. Six companies moved on
						the 28th, the remaining and the head-quarters on the 29th. The 31st brought the last day
						of the year and the uppermost thought was the long march on the morrow. In the evening
						there was music and a "Hoosier" watch party, and as the old year died "taps" were
						sounded with fine expression by musicians Williamns and Hays, and as the last note died
						away in the stillness the band struck up the national tune "America," then they played
						"The Star Spangled Banner" and "On the Banks of the Wabash Far Away."




					

					"New Year's in Cuba" will bring a flood of memories to the men of the regiment. At 8:30
						o'clock the companies were formed ready for the long march to Havana and return. Every
						soldier wanted to go. Many offered to do double tours of guard duty for the privilege of
						changing with one of those going. Off up through the camp of the Second Illinois the
						column moved, headed by Colonel Durbin with his staff and the band. Out from between the
						rows of great royal palms onto the highway the boys swung into line, happy and proud to
						be a part of the day's ceremonies that marks such an epoch in the history of the
						beautiful island. There was little to be said on the way for the first two or three
						miles.
					Probably there were thoughts of those so far away and of other New Year's days. All
						along the highlands to the cliffs overlooking the gulf, now down into the little green
						valleys, now up looking down into them, with a brisk salt breeze fanning them, the men
						of the regiment kept up the march with infrequent halts and short rests.
					Down the hill roads to the coast line the long line led into Vedado, the aristocratic
						suburb of Havana. Here the first long rest was made almost four miles from the home
						camp. Along the way on every little Cuban cottage the Cuban and American flags had been
						displayed, but at Vedado the decorations were on a larger scale. Entire fronts of
						buildings were covered with the flags intertwined with green. Black eyed senoritas in
						stiff white skirts and fresh ribbons came out from the vine covered verandas and
						proceeded to capture many hearts with their "Viva los Americanos." A fifteen days' life
						in Cuba had not given the men a very complete knowledge of the Spanish language, but the
						pretty girls were assured that they were "mucha buena."
					From Vedado to the city all the way is guarded by the 
						old Spanish forts, which were occupied by American troops and American gunners. At 11:45
						o'clock the pontoon bridge was crossed and the regiment was in Havana. Off across the
						narrow bay Morro stood silent and gray, beating back the waves that forever surge at her
						feet. Above the stone walls floated the yellow and red emblem of the defeated nation, so
						soon to be drawn down forever.
					As the time drew nearer to the noon hour the excitement among the people increased
						until they were running about the streets crying, shouting, laughing and singing. Dozens
						of bombs, exploding high in the air, added to the noise and confusion. There was an
						intense feeling. The hour they had so long prayed for and fought for was almost at hand.
						They knew that at that same minute the hated Spanish were leaving the governor-general's
						palace and that the Spanish guards were being relieved for all time in the Morro. Their
						fair land, "The Queen of the Antilles," was about to be taken from the hand of the
						oppressor.
					Twelve o'clock!
					Boom! The first gun from the Morro ever fired in honor of the American flag.
					And the men of the One Hundred and Sixty-first stood on the shore opposite and watched
						the Stars and Stripes ascend over that stronghold and joined in the cheer that went up
						with a strong Hoosier yell that was probably heard at the fort.
					Just by the regiment the bells of the Catholic hospital, San Lozaro, pealed forth clear
						and sweet, rung by the black-robed Sisters, heralding the new day in Cuban history.
						Tears they shed, maybe in sympathy for the mother land, maybe for joy. Farther down the
						street, at the palace, the old white-haired general, Castellanos, of Spain, was handing
						over to General Brooke the keys of the mansion, symbolic of the final evacuation of the
						island.



					


					The scene at the palace was simple and pathetic; the officers who were to take charge
						of the various departments were instructed by Brigadier-General Clous, the master of
						ceremonies of the day, as follows: "On the firing of the last gun of the first
						twenty-one at noon, you are to go to the place assigned you and demand possession of the
						office in the name of the United States." At 11:00 Major-General Wade and Major-General
						Butler, of the American evacuation commission, arrived; at 11:30 Major-General John R.
						Brooke, governor of Cuba, and Major-General Ludlow, governor of the city of Havana came
						and at 11:45 Major-General Lee joined them. Just a few minutes before 12 Captain-General
						Castellanos suddenly entered the salon and after greeting General Brooke and others,
						moved toward a group of Cuban generals and on being introduced to General Rodriguez
						shook both his hands according to Spanish custom, and said: "We have been enemies, but I
						respect you for your correct attitudes and opinions. I have pleasure in shaking your
						hand." General Rodriguez, replied: "I thank you, General; I feel sorry for the Spanish
						army which has defended the banner it was sworn to defend. I also have pleasure in
						shaking your hands." At this moment the big guns began to roar the national salute and
						at once General Castellanos, addressing General Wade, who was president of the American
						Commission, the words having been placed on manuscript, said: "Gentlemen: In compliance
						with the treaty of Paris, the agreement of the military commissioners of the island, and
						the orders of my King, at this moment of noon, January 1, 1899, there ceases in Cuba
						Spanish sovereignty and begins that of the United States. In consequence, I declare you
						in command of the island, with the object that you may exercise it, declaring to you
						that I will be first in respecting it. Peace having been established  between our respective governments, I promise you to give
						all due respect to the United States government, and I hope that the good relations
						already existing between our armies, will continue until the termination of the
						evacuation of those under my orders in this territory."
					The address having been translated, General Wade handed it to General Brooke, saying "I
						transfer this command to you," and General Brooke said: "I accept this great trust in
						behalf of the government and President of the United States, and (turning to General
						Castellanos) I wish you and the gallant gentlemen with you a pleasant return to your
						native land. May prosperity attend you and all who are with you." General Castellanos
						immediately retired from the throne room and turning to his officers said, with tears in
						his eyes: "Gentlemen, I have been in more battles than I have hairs on my head, and my
						self-possession has never failed me until to-day. Adieu, gentlemen, adieu." The old man
						bowed his head as he walked down the stairway and out into the plaza. Some American
						ladies waved their handkerchiefs to him and bowing he kissed his hands to them and
						accompanied by General Clous and by his own staff he started toward the wharf; all the
						way he was hooted and jeered by the Cubans and there was no Spanish soldiers to do his
						bidding had he cared to notice them, but those of better hearts looked quietly on and
						pitied the faithful old servant of his country. At the wharf he thanked General Clous
						and as he stepped into his launch that was to take him to his vessel he wept again while
						the docks were crowded with Spaniards, men and women, all dressed in black, weeping with
						him. Not a shout was raised, not a handkerchief was waved, but men and women wept
						together.
					It was almost 1 o'clock when the regiment was ordered forward. The review of the
						American troops by General  Lee, General Brooke, General
						Ludlow with the staff of each, drawn up in front of the Ingleterra; was in progress and
						the Indianians marched onto the Prado, ready to carry off the honors. The regiment was
						formed in platoons and there were a third more in the regiment than in any other
						organization that passed the stand. Cheers that were hearty before increased two-fold
						when the One Hundred and Sixty-first passed.
					Down the Prado they marched, every man a soldier. On to Reina street the column was
						directed and there it was halted for the noon-day lunch. The men fell out of ranks and
						for an hour and a half the neighborhood was filled with soldiers, visiting scenes they
						had read of, maybe, but had never seen. Then on home, back to a hot supper and cots and
						blankets that never seemed more comforting and more comfortable, and the great day was
						over.
					Cuba was out of the power of the Spanish.
					On the morning of January 2, the boys turned out of bed and discovered their legs were
						a little stiff from the previous day's hike; it was a day of well-deserved rest, for all
						drills were suspended and the men spent the day lounging about camp making "pipes" and
						"grape vines" on the next move.
					The month of January,apart from New Year's day and the 31st, was in one respect an
						uneventful one. There were no marches, no reviews and only one battle, on the 6th in
						which the "score was fourteen to three for the Cubans, seventy dollars gate receipts and
						that sore feeling for the boys. The panacea for all ills came next day when Major Havens
						visited the regiment with the good government's crisp paper and yellow gold.
					The boys were determined,however, to hold their good record at the drill and on the 9th
						began to drill twice a day, from 8:30 to 10 A. M.
						and from 3:30 to 4:30 P. M. 
						
						 This was immediately followed by regimental parade; it
						was quick time and if the first sergeant does not remember, the men do; it was "company
						dismissed"--get ready for parade"!! and as quick as it takes to tell it the men were on
						their way to "pass in review, take full distance, guide right, harsh."!!!!
					But there were some things which made even January an important month historically, and
						these are found in the camp improvements, the outcome of that spirit which has always by
						conceded opinion made the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana camp the model one.
					The 10th of the month saw the erection of the first company kitchen and for a week of
						time incessant hammering sounded an invitation for the company cooks to 
							SOUPEE! SOUPEE! SOUP! SOUP!
						 leave the sun and the wind and and the dust and the temporily erected "flys"
						and come into a commodious shack  which sprung up along
						the regimental rear, one for each company, in a line as straight as human science could
						make 
							THE WAY MOTHER
									USED TO DO.
						 it. At the same time the headquarters went down one tent a day, and "Dude
						Allen" with his force constructed those elevated floors and tent skeletons which made
						that row look like the street of a deserted village when we had gone.
					As fast as lumber arrived, and God and the government knows it came slow enough in
						spite of the fact that the quartermaster had receipted for sixty thousand feet in the
						states which went into government buildings and the regiment consequently had to wait,
						but it came by degrees, and as it did come was hurriedly worked up into floors for the
						company tents, but all tents however were not floored until the middle of March, when
						those of the home bound Maine artillery were brought to us for that purpose. In the
						meantime the grounds throughout and in the immediate 
						vicinity of the regiment were being thoroughly policed; every shrub and root grubbed up,
						and every loose  and protruding stone removed till the whole place was as neat
						and clean as human hands and labor could make it.
					Then came the "ornamental period" when companies vied with each other in making their
						quarters attractive. Had there been any Spaniards to fight all this camp embellishment
						would have been unknown, but it is certainly a great credit to any regiment and
						indicative of an enterprising spirit, the essence of which will make good soldiers under
						any circumstances, that a portion of the men's time was spent in an endeavor toward
						attractiveness. Great loads of sand were hauled from Playa beach and along headquarters,
						around battalion quarters, along the captains' and the company streets sand walks were
						made and 
						
							CAMP COLUMBIA.
						
						 bounded by uniform stones covered over with whitewash.
						At the head of each company appropriate designs were made by scratching up the red soil,
						by lettering and designing upon it by small bits of white limestone blasted from the
						hard earth by our Cuban sink diggers, who from the first day startled the camp by their
						cannon-like explosions and filled the air with flying stones which came hailing down
						ofttimes all too near for comfort or appreciation. On a certain Saturday (21st) a prize
						of $5.00 offered by the officer of the day for the neatest interior and surroundings was
						awarded to Corporal Joseph L. Luse, privates Frank E. Oaks, B. S. Kellenberger, Robert
						E. Ketner, Ralph McCallie and Elbert M. Blake, who occupied tent No. 19 in Company
						K.
					The band quarters, the hospital especially, and the First Battalion coral star, the
						product of Lieutenant-Colonel Backus' creative genius, all deserve mention, but the one
						work of note that made all the kodack fiends hurry to our camp, that made other
						regiments look our way with envious eyes and wonder why they "hadn't thought of it" was,
						is and always will be the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry
						Monument. It stands there to-day in its lonely grandeur, growing more endurable with the
						passing ages; a monument to the enterprise of the regiment whose name it bears. It is
						the first monument ever erected on foreign soil to the memory of an American Soldier and
						the honor of its origination and general design belongs to the inimitable Backus, to
						whose inherent aptitude for such things and untiring energy the One Hundred and
						Sixty-first Indiana owes much of the credit bestowed upon it for the example it always
						set as the model camp of the Seventh Army Corps; and would it not be well to confess
						that some of us looked a little wise and doubted a little bit the success of what seemed
						to be a hard task to make out 
						
							REGIMENTAL HOSPITAL AT CAMP COLUMBIA.
						
						o of rough material a monument creditable to the
						reputation of the regiment; but the lieutenant-colonel simply remarked "Just let the old
						man alone" and when the work was finished every man in the regiment was proud of it. It
						was begun on the 21st day of January and completed the 5th day of February, and every
						stone was hauled, hewn, lifted and put in place by a soldier of the regiment.
					Its base is sixteen feet square and four feet high; surmounted by a second base twelve
						feet square and three feet high and rising from this is the shaft, sixteen feet high,
						being four feet square at its base and two and one half feet square at the top where
						rests a twelve-inch steel shell making in all a total height of twenty-four feet. The
						shells and cannon balls upon and around its base were secured from the landing place on
						Playa coast. The shaft is a heavy frame work covered with brain coral and set in cement.
						Imbedded in the four faces of the second base are huge limestone slabs bearing the four
						inscriptions "One Hundred and Sixty-first" "Indiana" "Volunteer" "Infantry." Set in the
						north side of the lower base is a plate of limestone bearing the names of Colonel
						Durbin, Lieutenant-Colonel Backus and Captain George West as builders. In the front
						lower base is another limestone shield bearing the date 1899. In the upper left hand
						corner of the lower base immediately under the lower left hand corner of the upper base
						is the corner stone concerning the laying of which and its contents the following is
						quoted from the "Times of Cuba."
					"Yesterday morning the corner stone was laid, not with any formal ceremony but in a
						business-like way. The corner stone is one of great size, and after being chiseled out a
						tin box was placed inside. The box was about fifteen inches on each side, and when
						filled contained a remarkable collection of papers, very different from any that 
						
						 history records, and the man who will open this stone
						in centuries to come will marvel at the wonderful sight that will greet his eyes when he
						removes the cement that now so well protects the assortment of mementos that the Indiana
						men covered with a massive slab. A complete roster of the regiment was first placed in
						the stone. Then came a copy of the drill regulations and the manual of arms, followed by
						the photographs of a number of the officers of the regiment, all the newspapers
						published in Indiana which could be procured, a few small coins, a piece of rope from
						the lamented Maine, one cigar in a box, a brief history of the regiment, copies of the
						New York, Cincinnati and Chicago papers, and lastly a copy of the Times of Cuba, of
						Tuesday, January 23, which contained the first account of the unique memorial of the
						Indiana regiment."
					Captain West deserves great praise not only for his share in the monument's design but
						for the attention and assistance given to its erecton, and the men who worked so hard
						for so many days ought also to be remembered. It is not the only monument of its kind
						but it is and always will be the first one. It is told of a southern
						colonel: There were fourteen baptized in another regiment; he forthwith ordered the
						adjutant to make a detail of twenty men, to take them down to the creek and baptize
						them, for he "wasn't agoin' to allow any regiment to get ahead of him;" and so there are
						other monuments, at least one,--a creditable work, too, by the way.
					January also contained the "bloody period," a time when the patriots' fluid was drawn
						upon every man, a time out of which the future brought much intense suffering, a time
						when one thousand two hundred Hoosier soldiers bared their strong left arms to the
						surgeons' little bone slivers, with poison points like Oriental daggers, dipped in some
						mysterious concoction, that for effect might have  been,
						for all the soldiers knew, drawn from a cauldron mixed up by Macbeth's witches, and in
						plain vernacular beat a tarantula bite all hollow. There was smallpox in camp, of which
						later mention will be made, and every man was vaccinated, beginning with Company A, on
						the 16th of the month. The men were driven up to the dispensary like sheep to the
						slaughter-house--there was no getting out of it. There were more "Ohs!" and "damns!" and
						like emphatic exclamations in this month than in all others together, as those beautiful
						rose-colored sore arms hanging so carefully and tenderly down would run against the hand
						of some thoughtless fellow who wanted to tell him something on the confidential; but
						they were glad of it for it doubtless prevented what might otherwise have been a period
						of much and serious sickness, at least so medical science use to
						say.
					Many of these January days were wisely employed in visiting much of what there was of
						note on the island. On the 21st fourteen officers; including the Colonel, "saw the
						sights." They reported a time of great interest. They did Morro and Cabannas and the
						city thoroughly and were in the act of bringing the Maine from its wreck spot in the bay
						to camp but stopped suddenly after procuring enough to supply a few museums. On the
						following Saturday ten more under charge of Major Olds made a similar excursion. It was
						another pleasant and profitable day; Major Smith found a dollar on the tomb of Columbus
						in the old cathredal. The privates had their outings, too. Colonel Durbin who has always
						been considerate of his men, conceived the idea of sending each day, ten men from each
						company to the country in army wagons for a day of recreation and acquaintance with the
						country's beautiful appearance. Accordingly at 7 A. M. on January 29th the first excursion went out. They drove over a fine
						macadamized road past 
						
							A MIXED RACE.
						
						 trotting ponies, dusty stage coaches, lumbering burrow
						carts, cane and pineapple fields and banana groves, past a thousand palms and cocoas and
						other tropical growths, through peculiar Cuban villages to the mountains sixteen miles
						away and back again at six o'clock in the evening. Nature certainly has a lavish way of
						doing things in Cuba and as one looks upon the luxuriant landscape he thinks of
						something that Emerson said, 
							
								"Happy, I cried, whose home is here;
								Fair fortune to the Mountaineer;
								Dame nature round his humble bed
								Hath royal pleasure grounds outspread."
							
						
					

					Still appearances ofttimes deceive, and even the Cubans never raised enough as the
						import statistics on rice, flour, potatoes, salt ,etc., plainly indicate; but the chief
						thing now is that nature does it all or nearly all, for the wooden plow 
						 and antiquated ox goad; show the rude and barbarous
						stage out of which their agriculture has never emerged; but now while all over the
						island where once magnificent estates are  in ruins and the country has gone to
						waste, the time has come for the replanting and rebuilding and under an American
						protectorate or at least the influence of her civilization which is bound to come,
						agriculture will become an American science more in harmony with nature's demand that
						will usher in an era of prosperity such as the island never yet has known.
					Squads of ten, accompanied by a commissioned officer, from time to time also visited
						the city and surveyed its points of interest; there was grim old Morro with its walls
						hewn from the rocks in 1589; its famous O'Donnell lighthouse on the seaward corner and
						its frowning batteries  crowned with sixty cannon and
						the famous "twelve apostles." And there is traditional and worthless old Cabana, dating
						from 1763, at a cost of fourteen million dollars. There is the unrivaled view encircling
						the bay, the tragic spot where rests the Maine, the old Catholic cathedral, and, best of
						all, the life with all its peculiar characteristics that flows through the city's narrow
						streets. The value of seeing the country, the city and the people, will always be to
						every man, from an educatioaal standpoint, a reason for rejoicing that the destinies of
						war took him to those shores.
					If January began with a significant event it was also to end with one. An order came to
						prepare for a corps review on the 31st. The reviewing officer was to be the inspector
						general of the United States Army, Brigadier-General Breckenridge. The general had
						inspected our camp the day before, the 30th, and on the 31st, the parade ground being
						next and nearest our regiment, every man who could shoulder a gun turned out. Beside the
						infantry of the Seventh Army Corps there were present the Seventh Cavalry and the Second
						United States Artillery. In all over thirteen hundred men passed in review at 3 P. M. before the distinguished visitor who was there
						for that purpose in company with General Fitz Hugh Lee.
					The review was one that showed the results of hard training on the part of every
						regiment present; in fact it was remarkable the way those men did march. The Indiana
						boys were there. Said one fellow from another regiment, "Those d--d Hoosiers can have
						typhoid fever, smallpox and everything else and then turn out bigger companies and march
						better than any regiment in the whole d--d corps." That he was about right, forgetting
						the indelicacy of his expression is clearly proven by the following letter.



					

					
						
							
								
									
										
											HEADQUARTERS 1ST. BRIG., 2D. DIV., 7TH A. C.,
				CAMP COLUMBIA, HAVANA, CUBA, FEB. 1, I899.
				
										
									
									T>HE COMMANDING OFFICER, 161St IND. VOL. INF.

									SIR:--The brigadier-general commanding directs me to inform
										you in his opinion your regiment presented the finest appearance of any in the
										corps at the review before the inspector-general yesterday, and to express to
										you his gratification thereat. Also, that he considered the condition of your
										camp as worthy of especial commendation, which he takes pleasure in transmitting
										to you. Very respectfully,
									
										R.G. PAXTON, Assistant Adjutant-General.
									
								
							
						
					

					The men were proud of this deserved tribute; it was the result of intelligent and hard
						work and every future parade showed they meant to hold the distinction they had so
						honorably acquired. And thus the first month of 1899 came to an end. February was at
						hand and entered upon, every man wondering what its four short weeks would bring forth
						in the experience of the army to which he belonged.
				



				


				
					
						CHAPTER IX.
						
						
						CAMP COLUMBIA. 

					February 1, '99-March 31, '99.
					February came and brought with it twenty-eight days of atmospheric changes; for a day
						or a few the sun was at his best and then for an equal length of time or longer the
						clouds that hid the hot old orb poured their torrents down upon the thirsty ground; for
						a time we were warmly reminded of our equatorial proximity and then with a gale that
						sprang up in the night the wind would turn and bring us chilly reminders of that
						for-years-unequalled winter they were having in our Hoosier home up north. It was not
						necessary to wait for the "rainy season" to discover that Cuban skies had fine raining
						facilities; they were too generous to deal in "drops;" they poured it out in torrents
						and then some. The north wind that rose in the night and played those beautiful tunes
						with the flies, that blustered around the tent and blew an occasional one down, just to
						show what it could do, was a little reminder of what we might expect when the real time
						came for the wind to blow. But the night of the 13th was not so slow. At 2 A. M. on the morning of the 12th the wind began to rise; it
						had been blowing from the north for a day and all through the 13th it kept rising higher
						till it sent the ocean breakers in white dashing billows against the coast of Playa. By
						8 P. M. there was a heavy wind growing hourly
						stronger and by 2 A. M. of the coming morning a
						regular hurricane was having its own way all over camp. The night was awful; the  flies banged the tent with a vengeance, the frames
						creaked, the shrinking ropes pulled hard at the pegs and everywhere destruction was
						imminent. Many of the division hospital tents went down, all the assembly tents fell,
						and our own was irreparably ruined. The guard tents fell and from one to several tents
						in every company. The men were used to it, however, and when the wind got through they
						put them up again and were ready for drill.
					The month was full of history, though not all of it pertaining directly to the
						regiment; there was, however, the usual drill evolutions and the month's share of camp
						construction.
					All through the month there was in course of erection, in the rear of camp, a
						commodious and much needed, but, alas, never used bath house, a most convenient
						arrangement surpassing anything yet provided; a regular double decker. The upper story
						was provided with nine shower baths, the lower with one large tub for twenty-five men,
						besides which there were other complete toilet arrangements for twenty-four men. Other
						regiments were also provided, the work in this case being done not by the men of the
						regiment but by the corps of engineers, Second United States. They made a fine bath
						house, but were a mighty long time at it. That it was ready for use sometime after the
						regiment left is to be presumed.
					On the 5th Colonel Backus drew the plan for the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana
						band stand. It was to be octagon in shape, to be built of bamboo, and to surpass in
						uniqueness and beauty anything in the Seventh Army Corps. Would it be hard to
						substantially join the bamboo? Yes, but the colonel would do it. Forthwith wagons were
						sent into the country to procure the Cana Brava (bamboo), for the frame and the palm
						leaves for its characteristic thatched roof. It is not necessary to relate  the adjutant's war with the Cuban farmer whose bamboo he
						had innocently appropriated, nor how the chaplain's mules ran away while he was pulling
						a mahogany post four feet out of the road side, but the poles and leaves were brought
						and the work began. When nails would not hold the poles were wired together; each of the
						eight sides were ten feet wide, seats edged with bamboo were put in place, the floor was
						made of famous Playa sand, the palm branches were strapped upon the roof and it was
						finished, a shining green Kiosque with accommodations for forty musicians. Of course the
						green faded out, the leaves were brown in a day as if to remind us that man is like the
						grass of the field; in the morning it flourisheth and groweth up; in the evening it is
						cut down and withereth; but when the band played we forgot all about that. The companies
						were yet without dining rooms and February saw their erection. Lieutenant Johnson, of
						Company A, had returned in time to complete the music stand, and February 13, began work
						on the eating shacks. Ten feet in front of each kitchen was built a long narrow frame
						work and covered with paulines. Each was twenty-five feet long and fifteen feet wide,
						providing fifty men on either side with seating and table room.
					The drill was mostly battalion; for ten days it was battalion drill in the morning and
						dress parade in the evening; then came a few days of company drill, and the latter part
						of the month was devoted to battalion extended order drill and to "advance and rear
						guard work," in which latter the battalions marched into the enemy's country, threw out
						their skirmishers and advanced for points of attack; now toward some thatched hut, or
						some ravine or even God's holy house in Marianoa, but failing to find an enemy returned
						to camp and left the bewildered Cubans wondering what they had in mind to do.



					

					Major Havens paid us his accustomed visit on the 6th. The major was always welcome. On
						the 10th, at dress parade, the regimental photograph was taken on the hillside, near the
						division hospital. Picture business paid better than a commission in the army.
					Among other events of peculiar interest to the army in general was the burial, on the
						11th, of the remains of General Calixto Garcia, an imposing ceremony, marred only by the
						childish action of the quick-tempered and pharisaical-dispositioned Cuban officials. The
						following is taken from La Lucha, of February 13:
					
						"The funeral of the Cuban general, Calixto Garcia, which took place on last Saturday
							afternoon, was altogether an imposing ceremony, not only on account of the divers
							elements which figured in it, but also on account of the immense number of people of
							all classes who literally covered the balconies and terraces of the houses and invaded
							the sidewalks and even the streets through which the mournful cortege was to pass.
						"Clubs to the number of eighty-three formed in the procession, in which were also to
							be seen four splendid hearses, respectively drawn by four, six and ten horses, the
							coaches laden with part of the floral crowns dedicated to the memory of General
							Garcia, whose body had been placed on the caisson of an American cannon.
						"In compliance with President McKinley's instructions, General Brooke ordered that
							the honors of a general who had died in campaign should be rendered to General Garcia;
							accordingly four companies of cavalry and four batteries of artillery of the United
							States formed in the funeral; General Brooke with his staff and escort also
							attended.
						"The caisson with General Garcia's body was followed by three priests on foot; then
							came General Garcia's sons, in a carriage; Generals Brooke, Chaffee and Humphreys and
							Colonel Richards and the secretaries, in three carriages; General Brooke's staff and
							Lee and his staff, mounted, a cavalry troop; General Ludlow in a carriage, his staff
							mounted.






						

						"The two corps of Havana firemen, that turned out in full at the end of the
							procession, greatly attracted attention, on account of the fine look of their
							personnel, and brilliant uniforms.
						"It is really a pity that the misunderstanding occurred at the last hour, owing to
							which the delegates of the Cuban assembly, part of the members of the city council,
							all the Cuban generals and troops withdrew from the funeral, thus defrauding public
							expectation of seeing armed Cubans formed for the first time in this city; and a
							sentiment of uneasiness, as to the future consequences, became general."
					
					Four days more, and the 15th, bringing up the sad memory of a year ago, was at hand. It
						was the anniversary of the destruction of the Maine. The following order was
						received:
					
						
							
								
									
										
											
				HEADQUARTERS SEVENTH ARMY CORPS,
				CAMP COLUMBIA, HAVANA, CUBA,
											February 14, 1899.
										
									
									GENERAL ORDER NO. 12.

									To-morrow being the anniversary of the loss of the United States battleship
										Maine, all duty in this command excepting the necessary guard and police, will
										be suspended.
									By command of Major-General Lee.
									
										R. E. L. MICHIE, Assistant
											Adjutant-General.
									
								
							
						
					

					It was the night of February 15, 1898; it was 9:40 o'clock. The sky was overcast, but
						now and then the soft rays of the clear moon would break through to kiss the placid
						waters of the bay as they gently washed the sides of the great vessel as if to say, "All
						is well." Taps had sounded and the boys had "turned in," and while they were sleeping
						and dreaming, perhaps, of home or perchance of how they were bravely manning the guns in
						some 
						
							WRECK OF THE MAINE.
						
						 great and honorable naval conflict, listening with
						pride in their dream-bound imagination to the thundering of the big twelve-inch guns,
						there was consummated the fiendish perfidy of an enemy, who did not dare to meet the
						defenders of Old Glory in fair and honorable battle, and therefore chose the cover of
						darkness to touch the lives of innocent men.
					Two hundred and fifty-four men were lost that night. A few of the one hundred rescued
						died shortly after. February 17 nineteen bodies were interred in Colon cemetery; others
						followed, until more than a half hundred rest beneath that sacred mound.
					A year had passed since the tragic event, and a fitting memorial service was to be held
						in Colon cemetery.
					At 9:30 marines from the Brooklyn, the Resolute and the Lebanon, accompanied by a
						detail of sailors and their band, formed in front of the United States Club in the
						Prado, and with a troop from the Seventh Cavalry and a large procession of carriages and
						army ambulance containing ladies with numberless wreaths of beautiful flowers, they
						started at 2 o'clock for Vedado. At the entrance to the cemetery they were joined by
						General Brooke and his staff. At the same hour a battalion from the First Maine Heavy
						Artillery, one battalion from each division, one troop cavalry and one battery of light
						artillery formed in the road leading to Havana with the head of the column resting at
						Puentes Grandes bridge. When this escort with General Lee reached the cemetery part of
						the ceremony had been finished. The marines and sailors had drawn up, and as the
						Brooklyn band rendered a few selections they filed past the graves, each placing upon
						them some beautiful flowers. Then came the ladies with the other floral offerings.
						General Lee's party then came and rendered similar tribute; a national salute of
						twenty-one guns was 
						
							THE MAINE GRAVES.
						
						 fired and the crowd passed out under the colossal arch
						of Havana's holy field, leaving the dead heroes sleeping beneath a wilderness of
						flowers. It was impressive, solemn and pathetic; it was all that could be done to honor
						our country's dead, but the United States will have done its duty only when somewhere on
						the Prado or on some other suitable spot a beautiful and imposing monument rises to
						their memory.
					Since the narrative has entered the Havana cemetery it will be interesting to take the
						reader to one corner of this huge burying place, and there look upon one of the most
						shocking sights in Cuba--the "Human Bone Yard"--a cut of which is given on the following
						page. This enclosure is over seventy feet square, and the depth of the bone pile is over
						forty feet, containing, to-day, the bones of many millions of people. The rich man is
						hauled to his grave with highly caparisoned livery; the poor man carried in a rude
						coffin on the shoulders of four young men; according to his wealth, he is buried in his
						coffin, or, as is more usually the case, taken out and lowered by a rope into his
						resting place in mother earth's bare bosom. The coffin-bearers each pick up a piece of
						dirt, kiss it, throw it upon the corpse, pick up their coffin and take it back to be
						used for the next poor man. A little lime is then thrown over the corpse and the
						grave-digger takes his hoe and scrapes in the soil to a depth of about eight inches
						above the poor fellow's remains, and the SAME grave is then ready for another occupant,
						who is not long in coming. If this is shocking, what follows is more so: For centuries
						the established church of that island has imposed a yearly grave tax, an exorbitant sum
						which the poor, of course, cannot pay, and as the poor predominate in numbers the
						hideous bone pile is the result, and every cemetery has its ghastly corner into which
						the grave-digger is busy throwing the 
						
							HUMAN BONE YARD.
						
						 bones while he empties the grave for another tenant.
						The day of this heathenish practice is over! Up to Washington has gone the cry of the
						Cuban people, asking the privilege for their dead to rest undisturbed, and the influence
						of the starry flag, the ideas of the American nation, will make it so.
					In the regiment a corps review had been ordered. The first order for this review, dated
						February 8, corps headquarters, called for a review of the corps on the 11th inst., at 3
						o'clock P. M., on the open ground in the vicinity
						of the camp of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry by the
						major-general commanding, division of Cuba. The drill ground in our vicinity was the
						largest and best available; it was thoroughly prepared by Cuban labor, giving to the One
						Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana the best practice ground in the whole Seventh Army
						Corps.
					Many of the regiments were on their way to execute the above order when it was revoked
						because of rain, and the men, already drenched, went back. It was ours to wait in the
						dry. On the same day, from regimental headquarters, general order No. 6 was promulgated,
						stating the review would be held Monday, the 13th, with battalions ready to move at 2:30
							P. M. All men able to bear guns to be in line
						and no one excused except in writing by the major-surgeon.
					Again the men were on their way. Again it poured and again came the order of
						postponement until Friday, the 17th. This time the elements were threatening, but the
						review was on. The First Division was followed by the First Maine Heavy Artillery and
						then the Second Division, of which the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana was the last
						regiment, passed in review, followed by the Light Artillery Battalion and the Cavalry
						Squadron, which last,  for the satisfaction of the
						people, passed a second time, in running order. This was the first time in which General
						Lee himself, with his staff, passed the reviewing officer. In all, there were fifteen
						thousand soldiers in line. The troops were given a critical inspection, and a judgment
						that was favorable rendered for them all; the men were on their nerve that day and it
						would have been hard to find a better body of marching men. The spectacle was imposing
						and the impression was general that it would be the corps' last review.
					The 22d brought another anniversary and also an order for the suspension of all
						military duties. The men were allowed to go out in considerable numbers. Many officers
						were also absent, and it was a quiet camp all day. At 12 o'clock the national salute of
						twenty-one guns was fired, under the direction of the commanding officer of the Light
						Artillery Battalion, from the eminence on which the headquarters of the Second Division
						is located.
					At the same hour in the city of Havana occurred a review of the Regulars; the Cabanas
						guns fired a salute and the Seventh Cavalry Band played "America," which was the signal
						for beginning the march of three thousand men, who passed in review before Generals
						Brooke and Ludlow, who, with their staffs, had their reviewing positions in front of the
						"Inglaterra."
					The order was: Seventh Cavalry, Second Artillery and Tenth Infantry; the Eighth
						Infantry and two companies of engineers bringing up the rear.
					The review only lasted about twenty minutes, the men returning immediately to camp.
					Salutes from the Texas and Brooklyn were fired in response to that of Cabanas.
					The next day brought Gomez to Marianao. The old chief had skulked in the woods long
						enough; he had made  terms with America for the payment
						of his army and was on the way to stand before the people whose cause he had espoused.
						The One Hundred and Sixty-first band had been asked to meet him and escort him through
						the city at 1:30 P. M., he was expected and the
						band was there, the populace was there, hundred of soldiers in blue were there and the
						Cuban army was there, seven hundred infantry and five hundred cavalry, a strange mixture
						of color and age; we have remarked upon the color before; but there were young boys,
						children not over thirteen and some that were nearer twelve riding bony ponies small of
						stature, soldiers in the Cuban revolt. Every half hour brought a train, but not the
						general, and when the crowd had waited three hours and a half a special bearing the
						"stars and stripes" and the Cuban flag came rolling up from Quemados; every one knew it
						bore the expected chieftain and immediately a scene of greatest confusion reigned, the
						bands played and the multitude yelled. The mayor of Marianao had driven his handsome
						pony and carriage to the proper exit to receive the old hero, but some excited Cuban who
						knew it all persuaded him to quickly drive to the other entrance and about the time he
						got there Gomez came where the carriage first stood. What, no conveyance to meet the old
						battle-scarred veteran? and the crowd bearing down upon him! near the entrance stood an
						ante-deluvian shay with a skeleton between the shafts and an ebony faced driver on the
						seat. They jerked his old rattle-trap half way and the general the other half and would
						his posterity ever believe it the "peseta" hack-driver was to drive the great Gomez
						through the streets of Marianao. Just then the mayor spun around the corner, and his
						angry passions rose; it was "carramba" with one hand and then "carramba" with the other,
						and then "carramba" with both and Mr. Know-it-all expostulated, and the mayor  expostulated and said "carramba" again, and just then
						four drops of rain fell from the sky and the old warrior of many a storm was in his
						mackintosh before it could be told and the dusty buggy top dropped over him and he was
						off before a third of the crowd who had stretched their cervical vertebra so hard had a
						chance to see him. The One Hundred and Sixty-first band went before him playing "The
						Stars and Stripes Forever," while his Cuban followers came behind him and thus he was
						escorted to Cuban headquarters; in the evening a reception was given and later in the
						theatre a ball. The general wore a slouch hat and around his neck was tied a silken
						handkerchief; he was a trifle stooped and his face bore signs of the hardships he had
						suffered in his late campaign. The next day he entered Havana and received the ovations
						of a grateful populace while the political charlatans were whetting their knives to stab
						him in the hour of his triumph.
					This suffices for February, unless it be to mention the 26th, when the privates had an
						opportunity to watch and laugh while the line officers drilled, practicing sword
						salutation a la regulation; or perchance to tell of how the boys of
						the Seventh Army Corps changed the schedule on the "Ferro-Carril de Marianao." It is a
						simple story of a simple plan. The trains didn't stop where the boys wanted to get on,
						and they "soaped" the track. The train stopped and the boys got on, but it caused
						General Lee the trouble of writing General Order No. 18, and then, of course, the boys
						stopped.
					During the latter part of February officers and men were in daily expectation of an
						order from brigade headquarters sending the brigade out for a ten days or a two weeks'
						practice march. The Second Brigade had just returned from such a march, and it was
						generally understood that the First Brigade was to proceed upon a similar  one, going, however, around the city through the Havana
						province, instead of the southwesterly direction taken by the Second Brigade. On
						February 27 (Sunday) Colonel Durbin, Major Smith and Major Olds made a prospecting tour,
						selecting suitable roadways and camping spots.
					In the meantime, however, the surgeon had, on February 25, sent up to division
						headquarters a protest against the plan. The protest received the approval of the acting
						chief surgeon of the division, but after going to the chief surgeon of the Havana
						province, was returned practically disapproving the protest, and recommending
						preparations for the march, which, though not yet ordered, had been set for March 1st,
						but the major's protest was too sensible and weighty, and word came on March 1st that
						the proposed practice march had been postponed, but the fact was that the idea was
						altogether abandoned. In the meantime the colonel had planned another march, that of a
						day's pleasure trip to Vento Springs. The adjutant, in company with Captain Fortune,
						picked the way on Wednesday, March 1st, and in the early morning of the 2d, with Company
						A as advance guard, the regiment started on its way. When they came to the Second
						Division hospital the nurses and convalescents and all of Company M turned out to see
						them as they passed. The bugle corps did its best from the top of the hill till the
						railroad was crossed, when the band struck up "The Indiana State Band," and kept it up
						in a way that meant business till Real street was reached. The regiment marched out past
						the sugar factory to the main railroad, where the ambulances waited while they pushed on
						one and one-half miles to Vento. The band played a tune and the boys were turned loose.
						They took a swim, had lunch at 12, went down into the basin, went through the tunnel,
						and while some lounged others went over to visit the insane asylum, one-half mile away.
							 At 3:30 the regiment took its way toward camp,
						arriving at 5:45.
					Before the construction of the Vento springs the city had been inadequately supplied
						with water from the Zanja and Ferdinand VII aqueducts; the magnificent aqueduct of
						Isable II, or of the Vento, was begun in 1859, deriving its supply from the pure and
						inexhaustable Vento springs on the edge of the Almandares river, nine miles from
						Havana.
					The aqueduct itself has already cost three million five hundred thousand dollars and is
						still incomplete, being temporarily connected with that of Ferdinand VII. It will cost
						three million dollars to complete it. The Vento spring is a wonderful construction,
						being a large stone basin open at the bottom, through which the spring bubbles. The
						aqueduct is a tunnel of brick, eliptical in shape, placed under the ground and marked by
						turrets of stone placed along its course, carrying the water to two great reservoirs
						near Cerro and from thence to the city. An attempt was first made to pipe water for the
						camp from Havana, but the elevation interfering, a big elevated tank was built near the
						Fourth Illinois by means of which the water was to be forced through the camps. On
						Sunday night, January 22, a tremendous crash was heard and as the men went flying toward
						the sound conjecture was running wild; it was generally conceded that a frightful wreck
						had occurred and Bruce of Company K declared he saw the train just go up and the head
						light just go out, but as they drew near they found the huge water tank smashed to
						splinters in a flood of water and mud. The water was afterwards piped from the
						reservoirs and every camp furnished with the clear, pure water of Vento.
					The asylum visited by the boys has a sad history; when war came its inmates were
						neglected; at General Lee's departure two thousand barrels of a wheat preparation, a 
						
							VENTO SPRINGS.
						
						 portion of America's gift to the starving people of
						Cuba, was left in the sheds at the wharf. This the Spanish authorities seized and
						divided it equally between three institutions of which the asylum referred to was one.
						There were then one thousand and seventy-five inmates and from then until the fortunes
						of war changed no other provision was made to sustain their life and less than two
						hundred lived through that awful period of starvation--starved to death! The surviving
						ones are all nearly dark skinned, showing their superiority of physique and consequent
						power of endurance.
					A week of usual camp routine followed next. There was drill and parade, an issue of
						clothing by the quartermaster and a sermon by the chaplain. At dress parade on the 6th
						General Lee was present and was stationed at Colonel Durbin's left, while
						Lieutenant-Colonel Backus passed the regiment in review. The general, in company with
						Admiral Sampson, passed through camp again the following day and again on the 9th, in
						company with Captain Sigsbee of the Texas, visited camp, witnessed the review and
						stopped for conference with the colonel. Among other things the disposition of the Maine
						artillery tent floors was a matter in question. The Maine boys had left on the 8th and
						many of our own tents were still without floors; that evening a few floors found their
						way over the hill by mistake; the mistake was a simple one. Our regiment had been asked
						to put a guard over the much coveted property; the instruction to the guard was to allow
						no one to carry away the floors, but when he gave the instruction to his relief he said
						"no one is allowed to carry these floors but the One Hundred and Sixty-first," and the
						floors began to move. However, the next day they were given us by proper authority and
						were accordingly moved and made up for the regiment what it lacked in floors for its
						men.



					

					
						GOVERNMENT WAREHOUSE AT QUEMADOS.
					

					On Friday, the 10th, at 2:15 P. M., the
						battleships New York, Brooklyn, Indiana and Texas passed, in order named, along the
						coast on their cruising expedition to Cienfuegos and Santiago. Thirteen guns were fired
						by the light artillery from the eminence near division headquarters and the salute
						returned by the guns of the New York. On the 10th the Exchange was moved out of its
						weedy corner and obscure surroundings and taken to the "Midway," so dubbed by the boys,
						for here was the band, the assembly tent, the post-office, and the exchange and here the
						officers sent for their men when they were wanted and couldn't be found, spending idle
						moments listening to band practice, playing games, writing letters, buying stamps and
						soft drinks at the Exchange. It was also on the 10th that 
						
							MIDWAY.
						 circular No. 5 was issued from corps headquarters authorizing regimental
						commanders to replace the drill on Tuesdays and Thursdays with athletic exercises.
					Instead of fours right and column left there was to be dashes and hurdles, pole vaults,
						hammer throwing, shot putting, wrestling, base ball and foot ball. The athletic fiends
						were in high delight--great things would be done to other regiments--but while all the
						men were glad for a change they were not looking for a change of this kind; it was a
						change of country and this announcement savored of a longer stay than the most satisfied
						had hoped for, but the time of departure was too near at hand and the authorization of
						such a programme, which, had it come earlier, would have produced a most excellent and
						acceptable 
						
							OFF FOR THE MAIL.
						 change, was too untimely, for in less than two weeks preparations for "goin'
						home" were in progress.
					The next day, Saturday, March 11, brought Major Kenner, the paymaster, and also a new
						order of company inspection. Every tent was emptied and then taken down; it was the
						inspection order only, but it looked like something else, and the yells sent up by the
						boys made the neighbor regiments believe we were; then the floors were raised, the soil
						underneath them scratched and everything left to ventilate, after which "as you were "
						was executed and inspection was over.
					Sunday was the 12th. The colonel and Major Smith had gone to Mantanzas; Chaplain Watts,
						of the First Texas, preached in the assembly tent; the officers at a meeting de- cided
						to give a reception, and on Wednesday the following 
						
						invitation was sent to all the officers of the Seventh Army Corps:
					
						"The officers of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry
							request your presence on Monday evening, March the twentieth, at the headquarters of
							the Corps of Engineers.
						"At eight o'clock.
						"Dancing."
					
					The rooms of the building were handsomely decorated with branches of the royal palm,
						and the affair, by all who were there, was pronounced the best kind of a success. Light
						refreshments were served, and in the court arbor a peculiar but excellent quality of
						lemonade was at the disposal of all throughout the evening; the officers did not stay
						late and showed fine consideration for their sleeping comrades by the quiet
							way in which they came into camp.



					


					On Monday, the 13th, Lieutenant John R. Ward, with a detail of six men, accompanied
						Paymaster Major Benjamin F. Havens on his pay trip among the regiments outside Havana
						province. They visited regiments at Mantanzas, Cardenas, La Union, Batabano and minor
						points, returning to the regiment the 26th. In January Lieutenant Durbin and in February
						Lieutenant Pitman, each with a detail of men, made similar trips with the major. It was
						an excellent opportunity to see the country and a privilege that every one coveted. The
						detail was selected from the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana each time, and caused a
						little concern on the outside, but our friend, Major Havens, is a Hoosier and no other
						explanation is needed.
					Tuesday, 14th, Major Blow, of the Fourth Virginia, an officer of the regular army, came
						into camp for investigation and instruction concerning the condition of company books;
						the officers gathered in the band stand and with mustering out in view were carefully
						reminded of the exactness and completeness of all record necessary for acceptance by the
						authority on that day. Nothing of serious consequence occurred during the next few days
						save Kimmel's white collar at dress parade and the report that several men strained
						their optic nerves looking out to sea for transports.
					For Friday, 17th, a brigade review was on. It was a farewell review for Colonel Joseph
						F. Armfield, commander of the brigade and colonel of the First North Carolina. Colonel
						Moulton, of the Second Illinois passed the brigade in review, and Lieutenant-Colonel
						Backus was in command of the One Hundred and Sixty-first. Colonel Armfield and his
						regiment left the following day, a week, for Savannah, Georgia. On Monday, 20th, instead
						of the usual regimental parade the battalions were reviewed by their respective
						commanders.


					

					On the evening of this day there was organized "The Society of the Seventh Army
						Corps-Spanish-American War," of which Major-General Fitzhugh Lee was chosen president;
						Colonel Durbin was chosen as a member of the executive council. By article V of the
						constitution "all officers and soldiers who have served in the Seventh Army Corps in the
						war between the United States and Spain, possessing a good moral character and an
						honorable military record, shall be eligible to membership in the society."
					On Tuesday, 21st, at regimental parade, the regiment heard the following notification
						was read to them by the colonel:

					
						
							
								
									
										Commanding General, Havana, March 20,
												1899.
											Buena Vista:
									
									Secretary of war directs the Second Illinois and the One Hundred and
										Sixty-first Indiana be prepared to go to States after regiments already ordered
										get away; you will be notified later when transport will be ready. Regiments
										should get their records complete.
									By command of Major-General Brooke.
									
										Signed RICHARDS, Asst.
											Adjutant-General.
									
								
							
						
					

					The men heard these words in silence and marched back to quarters; they wanted to go
						home, of course, but neither at this time nor later when the information was definite as
						to time did there occur the joyful and noisy demonstration which characterized other
						regiments of men under the same circumstances. The esprit de corps,
						the pride of reputation, the excellent health and fine feeling of the men and the entire
						environment made them satisfied and the certainty of a recall before the extreme heat
						set in made them willing to await what the department thought the proper time;
						nevertheless twelve hundred glad hearts  beat under army
						blankets that night and twelve hundred imaginations were busy living through the scenes
						that were soon to occur in the homeland far away.

					
						COMPANY G STREET BY MOONLIGHT.
					

					 Thursday was a day of picture taking; the chaplain was busy preparing a regimental
						history and Waterman's photographer was busy with his camera; it was turned upon the
						sergeants and corporals and other such groups as could be called together, and then from
						an elevated construction hauled about in a wagon photographs of the regiment and views
						of camp were taken. In the afternoon Lieutenant-Colonel Backus passed the regiment in
						review before Colonel Durbin, adjutant in command of the First Battalion.
					The next day morning drill was replaced by camp 
						
							NEXT!
						 cleaning, and at parade the men were told they might be in expectation of an
						order to move any day, and they were also given the pleasing information that small
						boxes containing their additional effects in the way of Cuban relics, etc., would be
						transported for them.
					In the evening the First North Carolina men, who were to leave the following day, paid
						us their parting respects by way of a noisy tin can serenade; the whole howling
						regiment, frantic because of home-going, came down upon us and made night hideous as
						they marched through the headquarters and battalion streets. It was indicative of the
						kindly feeling existing between the regiments of the brigade and made our boys glad to
						see the North Carolinians shout because they were going back to  the cotton and the pine trees of their native state. The next day,
						Saturday, 25th, Major Blow again met with the officers; in the afternoon Major-General
						Brooke sent to the commanding general at Buena Vista the following information which was
						forwarded to this regiment, in substance that on the 29th and 30th inst. the Second
						Illinois was to leave and that efforts were then being made to secure the Ward line to
						land the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana in Tampa, Florida, by 12 o'clock, March 31.
						On the same day all ammunition and extra ordnance stores were turned in and
						Quartermaster Brunt took them to the government ordnance store at Fort Principe.
					On this Saturday an execution occurred under the "hangman's tree," without an account
						of which and a picture of the tree the history of the regiment would be incomplete. The
						tree in question grew especially to hang people on; it has only one limb for the reason
						that so continuous has been the weight of bodies hanging from it that all the strength
						of the tree must be concentrated in this one limb to be able to bear the strain. The
						first use of this marvelous tree was when a band of bandits robbed a Spanish trading
						party and hung them all from the limb, tying the ropes about the trunk, and then not
						long thereafter the civil authorities having captured the bandits hung them all in turn,
						seventeen of them, from the self same limb; the Cubans hung many a Spaniard there and in
						the recent war the number of Cubans strung up to this noted limb varies according to
						report, some declaring fifty; others seventy-three and still others one hundred and
						fifty, and no doubt Weyler, the assassin and butcher, hung a whole town of
						reconcentrados to the limb in question. The grass grows greener under the tree because
						the blood has fertilized the soil. At night a wise man always avoids passing it. Spooks
						and ghosts laugh at you with a fiendish laugh and apparitions  of hanging bodies dangling there knock against each other as they are
						blown about by wind that comes up from Playa beach.
					On the day in question a man was stood against the tree; ten rifles were leveled at him
						twenty feet away. The man could not be recognized from camp, one-quarter mile 
							HANGMAN'S TREE.
						 away for his bandaged eyes disguised him, but it could be no other than the
						poor Louisiana soldier who in a drunken row had killed a comrade and was waiting death
						sentence in Marianao jail. Would they shoot before the men and officers who saw them
						could get there? "After all do I want to see a poor fellow shot down?" "My! its awful."
						"Why  couldn't they give him a life sentence?" "I tell
						you its sad, boys." "I don't know whether I want to go any farther or not, but if it's
						got to be done I guess I'll go on just to say I saw it." But before the men got more
						than half way the fatal moment came. There came a sharp metallic click and the awful
						deed was done, the rifles were lowered and the poor boy in blue threw up his hands
						and--took the bandage from his eyes--the photograph was taken. Under the circumstances
						it is not policy to mention every name, but if Captain Osborne and Captain Gwinn and
						Major Olds had caught Lieutenant Dority just then another man might have been hung from
						that famous tree.
					Monday forenoon, the 27th, an order came calling for a corps review, by the secretary
						of war, that day at 4:30 P. M. The arrival of the
						secretary of war in Havana and his conference with the heads of departments was an
						occasion of great moment for the military administration of affairs in the island. The
						corps review was held in his honor; it was the last review of the corps, and it was
						fragmentary, there being only seven regiments, besides the artillery and cavalry, to
						participate. Seventeen guns, the proper salute for a member of the cabinet, was fired by
						the batteries as the secretary, with his escort, arrived upon the field. The Fourth
						Illinois, Ninth Illinois, Third Nebraska, One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana, Second
						Illinois, Forty-ninth Iowa and Sixth Missouri passed in review in the order named. The
						cavalry and artillery passed the reviewing stand twice, as usual; but this time, as if
						it were their last opportunity, showed the secretary and everybody else how fast they
						could go. It was a fine exhibition of military horsemanship, and a whole circus and
						hippodrome to see them dash by with just danger enough to make it real exciting. In view
						of who the reviewing officer was, the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana had a record
						to sustain.  How eyes did open at the sight of those big
						companies and straight lines! The secretary only said to the colonel, as he retired, "It
						beat Jacksonville"--three words big with meaning.
					In the evening General Brooke tendered the secretary a reception. Prominent officers of
						the army and navy and their wives and many leading citizens were present. The Seventh
						Cavalry band furnished music, and the occasion was one of the most pleasant social
						events held in the city since the evacuation. While Colonel Durbin was in attendance at
						this reception, Major Megrew being in command of camp, a telegram was received stating
						that the command would leave camp at daybreak on Wednesday morning and embark on the
						steamship Logan for the United States. All next day the camp was a busy scene of men
						hurrying to and fro, packing boxes and getting things in readiness for the long looked
						for and hoped for event.
					The evening was one of preparation for the morning's departure. The chaplain was
						holding nightly services in the assembly tent, and that night was an unexpected farewell
						service. Fires were consuming all combustible leavings, and the whole camp was lighted
						by the flames. There was not much sleep that night. The men's brains were busy, and they
						were restless for the coming of the morning. One man mistook 2 o'clock for 5 and began
						to wander about beating upon a washpan in an attempt to raise the camp, until either the
						sight of the Third Battalion commander in his night shirt or his mighty voice commanding
						silence scared the fellow back to his cot. At 4 A. M. reveille sounded, a hasty but good breakfast taken, the wagons loaded,
						assembly call given at 5:45, and at 6 A. M.,
						promptly, the colonel commanded: "Forward, march!" The wagon train had gone before, and
						the regiment  marched past Buena Vista Station and
						formed in line of masses before General Lee's headquarters, where the general was
						standing to see the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana march away. Colonel Durbin
						dismounted and, saluting, said: "I have the honor to report the departure of the One
						Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry." The colonel had in mind to say
						other things, but the occasion was one of deep emotion and he could only grasp the old
						general's hand and say: "Good bye, and God bless you!" and he turned away. The tear in
						General Lee's eye spoke for him as he watched the colonel mount and the regiment move
						away.
					The regiment then proceeded out on the road to the city, marching by way of Vedado,
						where they came to "port arms" in passing General Brooke and other officers before
						headquarters, arriving at San Jose wharf at 9:30, after a three and one-half hours'
						march, where the men piled themselves up in the shade to rest and wait for the order to
						move on board the transport.
				



				


				
					
						CHAPTER X.
						
						
						THE DEPARTURE, VOYAGE AND ARRIVAL. 

					The wagon train had come in before them and the dock men were busy loading the effects
						upon small flat cars, pushing them out on the pier and preparing them for the hoist that
						carried them up and down into the two hatchways of the vessel; if the regiment and its
						effects could be on board by 4 o'clock or thereabouts, the transport was to make for
						Savannah, which port it could reach by noon of the 31st in time to avoid quarantine;
						otherwise we were to reach the states by way of Tampa, and be necessarily inconvenienced
						by a ten days quarantine.
					To be ready by any ways near 4 o'clock seemed impossible, according to the progress
						usually made in moving a regiment on board a vessel, but it is doubtful if ever a
						transport was loaded with greater rapidity than this, and the wonder is that more boxes
						and a few heads were not smashed. Boxes, trunks and barrels were piled together in the
						net or looped within a single rope, the cog wheel began to play and away they went with
						a swing and a bang and a chorus of Cuban ejaculations; they made new bundles while the
						one just sent up swung in the air above them. Now and then a bundle came back with a
						smash, but always missed a Cuban, or if it reached the hatchway hole beat the rope to
						the bottom with a bang and scattered their contents on the floor. The boys lounged under
						the wharf shed till 3 o'clock and then began to board the vessel. Lieutenant-Colonel
						Backus, executive officer of the vessel, superintended their embarkment.



					

					
						SAN JOSE ESPIGON (WHARF.)
					

					They came with guns and knapsacks and canteens, but they came with more. The beasts and
						the birds were there; this fellow had a dog and another one a rabbit and company F's
						snake charmer had his mammoth serpents; there were yellow breasted canaries and game
						roosters, green parrots in wire cages; one fellow had a cat with kittens; he had taken
						puss with him from Savannah and while on that productive soil she gave birth to nine
						kittens; each one was worth its weight in gold, for it was born in "Cuby," and mother
						and all should go back to Freedom's holy land; and there were canes and small portable
						boxes of this, that and the other thing, and what the men didn't have heaven knows they
						did have in their boxes among the heavy baggage. Company officers stood at the foot of
						the gang stairway and noted the men as they passed and quite a few failed to pass, not
						One Hundred and Sixty-first men, but discharged soldiers, fired teamsters and cooks and
						an 
						
							A FEW OF THEM.
						 occasional speculator who had gone broke, all seeking passage back to a better
						land. They were a persevering lot of fellows and when turned down once would try again
						until some officer was charitable enough to disobey orders and allow an occasional one
						to slip along. A rope ladder lowered for a couple of late passengers brought up the rest
						and all on board, at 5.05 P. M., the well loaded
						vessel, assisted by the tug Gladisfen, slowly turned its prow to the north and started
						for the harbor exit close by Morro's massive walls.
					The band played "The Stars and Stripes" and "A Hot Time;" the vessels that lay at
						anchor in the harbor filled the air with the shrill noise of steam whistles; the Paris'
						decks were filled with tourists who cheered us loudly as we passed; a steam launch ran
						out to cheer us on our 
						
							GOING ON BOARD THE LOGAN.
						 way, and the band of the Resolute played "Home, Sweet Home;" there was a
						moment's quiet and a piercing Indian yell came from behind that caused every man on
						board to turn toward the wharf; it was "Broncho John," the man with the record of the
						plains, a familiar figure in the Seventh Army Corps, who added a little romance to its
						history; he was astride his horse at the end of the pier bidding us good-bye with his
						characteristic yell and a wave of his coat, and the boys returned it with fine imitation
						and a rousing spirit. Past the Maine, past Cabana, past Morro at 5:23 and out into the
						ocean the steamship went and we were "goin' home." Things were different than when we
						entered; Cabana's walls were not lined with Spanish soldiers and Old Glory waved from
						Morro. Scenes that  three and a half months before were
						strange were then familiar, and a mission, the idea and purpose of which when we first
						came into such environments played upon the emotions of the American soldiers, no longer
						moved him as before, but left him alone with his musings of where he was going.
					The vessel was a government transport, formerly the Manitoba, but re-named the Logan.
						It was four hundred and fifty-seven feet long, several feet shorter than the Mobile, 
							LOGAN.
						 and, although a comfortable and substantial vessel, it could hardly be called
						the Mobile's equal. It had, however, more deck room for the men than had the Mobile,
						while the officer's quarters were smaller. In place of cots for the men, hammocks were
						provided, which arrangement  allowed better ventilation.
						The vessel made sixteen knots an hour over the bottom, and thirteen and a half feet
						through the water, dropping anchor at the quarantine station in the Savannah harbor at
						9:15 A. M., Friday, the 31st--forty hours since
						5:05 P. M., Wednesday, the 29th, when the line was
						cast off at San Jos pier. From Savannah to Havana and return, allowing eight hours for
						loading, it was the fastest record yet made by a government transport. The sea was just
						a trifle rough the first morning out, and officers and men, who had voluntarily thrown
						up home 
							NOT FEELING SO WELL!
						 and friends and position for suffering Cuba's sake, began to throw up again
						simply because they couldn't help it for their feelings' sake. The sea grew calmer and
						the vessel grew steadier and the politicians, so long out of practice, realizing the
						early return to their profession, called a mock convention to determine by their knavery
						the political destiny of some of their comrades.


					

					Vick M. Backus imposed himself upon the convention as self-constituted chairman.
						Oratory was on tap and flowed like greased liquid. Much opposition was encountered to
						"old man" Gwinn's nomination for sheriff of Rush county, but the gallant old veteran's
						record of daring bravery in the Mexican war was too deserving of recognition, and at the
						end of a hot debate, was given the unanimous nomination for said position. Percy Welsh,
						of Hooppole township, Posey county, was made a nominee for coroner of his township, but
						so far forgot himself as to insult the chairman, whereupon Ward, of White; arose and
						startled the convention by masterly eloquence, in which he repudiated the man Welsh, who
						quailed into speechlessness under the scathing denunciation. The new discovered
						Demosthenes closed his phillipic by placing Congressman Brunt's protege, Sam Cahn, in
						nomination, who was thereupon chosen by the convention amidst wild acclamation. Messages
						of condolence were to invalid Hudgins and the convention adjourned to meet in the saloon
						at 7:30 P. M. Wickliff Smith was unanimously
						chosen chairman, but Backus intimidated the convention at the point of weapon and when
						Smith started for the chair he found himself star into the depths of a pistol in the
						hand of the determined and now desperate Backus; Smith was afraid to take his seat,
						whereupon he was vehemently denounced as a traitor to his convictions a proceedings
						began with Backus in the chair. Harold Megrew and Albert D. Ogborn, by appointment of
						the previous sitting, reported a draft of resolutions denouncing all intoxicating liquor
						but whiskey, advocating all kinds of money as long as there was plenty of it, and
						granting the toiling millions leave to toil. The scene that followed was a stormy one.
						Waterlilly Kimmel led the race for congressman of the Sixth district, and Ivy, of police
						fame, was made the convention's choice for justice of the peace of  Clark county. Welsh was there with blood in his eye--the time for
						vengeance came when Ward, of White county, was made a nominee; he defamed his character
						and his well-known reputation for honesty and truthfulness carried the opinion of the
						representatives present, but when the man from White arose to acknowledge his defeat, he
						did'nt do a thing to the man from Posey, and the convention adjourned after firing Welsh
						from the salon.
					The next morning at 8 o'clock, the Logan was nearing the muddy mouth of the Savannah
						river. As she drew near her mooring place the indispensable tugs were there to help the
						big boat to her place. There was the "H. C. M. Smith," whoever that referred to, that
						brought the inspecting surgeon on board, and there was the "Dauntless" of filibustering
						fame, that ran her twenty miles an hour and cost the governments of Spain and United
						States so much in vain endeavor to catch her; huge lighters were pushed alongside and
						the work of unloading began. At 12:10 the Santee, a strange bulk of a boat came and took
						the First Battalion over to the dread fumigation plant;what they would do to us was the
						supreme query all the way from Cuba. Strange stories of that mysterious place had been
						circulated; the men were to be stripped and steamed until all the Cuban brown would
						leave their skin and they were to go home as fair faced as a new-born child. Some of the
						men had come into possession of little pieces of hardened shapeless rubber purported to
						be fumigated buttons--relics were to melt and run together and every parrot, cat,
						canary, rooster and dog would be cleansed beyond recognition if he came out alive. The
						First Battalion returned at 3:15 and all the satisfaction they gave the rest was "what
						they'll do to you'11 be a plenty," and they were towed to the city along with the
						commissary goods.  that were not subject to fumigation.
						At 4 P. M. another load went over and passed us on
						their way to Savannah, with the message "they wont do a thing to you when they get
						you."
					Night fell over the Logan, a Company C man fell into the water, and in the morning the
						rest of the regiment started in two bodies to the place of torture. We were first
						subjected to a long wait, in which they let loose on us about sixty millions sand gnats,
						that bit and stung worse than Morro fleas; then the men marched in to an open space and
						prepared such baggage as they carried with them for the cauldron. It is only fair to say
						the fumigating authorities had their own way about it all; not the least concession of
						any character would they make unless some petty condition was complied with. If you only
						had one laundered shirt it must have all the starch steamed out of it in the fumigatory
						process, unless you wore it, in which case it didn't need fumigation. Blankets which
						were aired almost every day must be steamed into worthlessness, but clothes and
						overcoats that hung for months in the tents passed without it. At first men were
						stripped and dressed in pajamas to stand around like hospital convalescents, while their
						every piece of clothing went in the cylinder; but this got wearisome for the management
						and such carefulness was afterward dispensed with, but such articles as were steamed got
						two hundred and twenty degrees for twenty minutes, and the most skeptical had but to lay
						the tip of his little finger on them as they emerged to be most thoroughly convinced
						that every flea, United States grayback and every vermin of every kind, carrying
						concealed about his person any contagious microbes of smallpox or yellow fever, had
						suffered a most horrible death; but they deserved it all for what they did to us in
						Cuba. Any leather that went felt in awful little when it came out, as  the accompanying cut will fully demonstrate to a careful
						observer.

					

					Most leather goods were dipped in a solution of water, bichloride of mercury and sodium
						chloride and dirt, while boxed articles were sprinkled with sawdust, moistened with a
						solution of formaldchyde or some such concoction of similar name; it was a big nuisance
						and a regular April fool but no doubt a great life saving station and all its attendants
						worthy a medal of honer from its superintendant to the small boy who slipped the
						officers red chalk to O. K. unfumigated goods, for if those terrible microbes who came
						with us, transportation free, from Cuba had ever got loose, the entire south would have
						been overwhelmed with an appalling loss of life. We might in return for courtesy
						received, suggest to its worthy proprietors an excellent motto "a thing worth doing is
						worth doing well."  Personal fumigation being over, at
						2:40, with empty stomachs, we embarked on the Santee and, assisted by the Dauntless,
						made our way up to the city wharf. Wagons were ready to haul us to camp and at 6 P. M. we came up with the rest of the regiment gone
						on before, with a camp laid out on the ground formerly occupied by the Forty-ninth Iowa.
						The tents were old ones of every description, left behind by the regiment that had
						previously gone to Cuba; at camp Columbia we had better tentage than any regiment in the
						Seventh Army Corps, besides the men, the officers also having each one a large
						(hospital) tent, but here we tumbled into what ever was at hand and, unwashed and
						unkempt, froze around till our washpans and blankets were released from quarantine. The
						regiment came over without a sick man and this deprivation caused more sickness than the
						steaming of those imaginary bacterial microbes ever prevented, but a soldier must have a
						heart for any fate and so with hearts that were cheerful because the time was short and
						because the stiff winds that chilled them through and through were American and
						therefore better than the balmy breezes and warm sunshine of Cuba, the men began the
						last chapter of their experience in the war they had undertaken to assist.
				



				


				
					
						CHAPTER XI.
						
						
						MUSTERING OUT MONTH. 

					CAMP HOMEWARD, April 2-30, 1899.
					The evening of April Fool's day found the regiment once more together and when Sunday,
						the 2d, dawned, a month of hard work stared everybody in the face; the guard played guard mount, and next day the regiment played
						parade, after which the colonel said a few words and business was on in earnest
						thereafter. There was plenty eating every where and the messes were never formed, but at
						a meeting of officers on the 5th it was announced that suitable arrangements could be
						made with the genial Holmes couple who had been in the restaurant business all the way
						to Cuba and back, and a decision reached which drew all the regimental officers around
						their well spread table three times a day for $5 a week. The same day the baggage came
						from the place of its retention by the fumigating authorities. The officers had gone
						frozen by night and unkempt by day, until the bedding and washpans arrived; the stuff
						came and every man had to hunt his own--it brought with it a smell that hasn't left it
						yet and which so infected the bedding that when a man tucked it under his nose for the
						night he expected to wake up in the morning axphixiated or chloroformed or in a
						condition that might be worse. But the rough part of it all was that many articles of
						value never came at all; one thing is evident, they were either lost or stolen--the
						reader may form his own opinion, but in either case the responsibility is not hard to
						fix.



					

					The first week was intensely chilly, especially at night for men fresh from Cuba, and
						all the rusty oil stoves of former Savannah days were started on the burn; a certain
						lieutenant of Company F, with honors fresh upon him, built his camp fire upon the floor
						of his tent, but the majority of the officers spent the nights in town previous to the
						arrival of their blankets.
					Captain Beckert, of the Sixteenth United States, the mustering out officer for the
						regiment, had made his appearance and was busy with the inspection of company books and
						records. While Surgeons Gerrish and Wilson were busy at medical inspection of the Fourth
						Virginia men the men of the One Hundred and Sixty-first were marching by companies to a
						building in the camp of the Two Hundred and Second New York,where a board of medical
						examiners, consisting of Surgeons Pead and Old, of the Fourth Virginia, and Tetamore, of
						the One Hundred and Second New York, under direction of Surgeon Howard, of the United
						States Army, endeavored to find out how many of those who enlisted able bodied were
						crippled at the close of the war. The men who reported themselves as sound were passed
						with little or no examination, while those who reported unsound were tested as to the
						genuineness of their disability. The arrangement was a mutual protective concern; it
						began Friday, the 7th, with Company G, and ended Monday, the band and the staff being
						examined the last day.
					The day for turning in ordnance stores had been set for Wednesday, the 12th;
						accordingly, Tuesday was the last day with guns and good use was made of the time. At 9
							A. M. the regiment marched to the Dale Avenue
						camp with the purpose of making a regimental call on the First North Carolina and the
						Second Louisiana; Colonel Durbin, in a neat speech, spoke of the good feeling
						entertained by  the Hoosiers for the men from Carolina,
						of the pain in breaking associations that had been so friendly and wishing Colonel
						Armfield and his men God-speed, he said good-bye for the regiment. There were cheers for
						the regiment, cheers for the brigade which Colonel Armfield commanded and cheers for the
						Seventh Army Corps. Arms were stacked, and while the men spent half an hour talking of
						Cuba and of home, the officers of the regiments mingled in social and farewell
						intercourse. On the return march a like scene occurred at the camp of the Second
						Louisiana, where the Indiana men were warmly welcomed by the "Tigers" from the south.
						Lieutenant-Colonel DuFour made a touching little speech which was warmly and loudly
						applauded by the men in ranks. He declared that he was glad to see that all sectional
						feeling had been wiped out and that the northern men had it in heart to thus visit the
						regiments from the south and wished that everything good might attend the Hoosier boys
						as they went back to their homes in the north.
					Wednesday was a picture taking day and in the midst of the greatest rush of business,
						for the order had come for the turning in of all ordnance stores; before the captains'
						tents the guns were stacked and the knapsacks, haversacks and canteens were placed in
						piles of five, and after Lieutenant Guignard, of the Fourth United States Artillery, had
						passed along to inspect them they were snugly packed away in boxes and Uncle Sam's
						wagons came along and took them away. Each company was in possession of ordnance stores
						to the amount of about three thousand dollars. Six companies completed this work on the
						13th, and six on the 14th. On the 13th the first attempt since leaving was made to mount
						the guard without arms; it was not an easy thing to do and the men that gathered round
						to watch had a little fun at the guard's expense. During these days neither  pen can describe nor words can tell the awful agony of
						toil through which the captains and their clerks were passing, burning the midnight oil
						out of their lamps and the energy out of their lives in preparing the muster rolls for
						the men to sign; there were only five of them for each company and the men pitched
						horse-shoes while the officers worked and when they were signed, every one of the five
						by every man in the company, they were subjected to a board of examiners composed of the
						lieutenants, who labored through them and sent them back for needed correction.
					For the men the following week was one of monotonous waiting, going out perhaps at
						drill time for a little exercise and spending the rest of their time at the popular game
						of quoit pitching or in trying to borrow a dime to take them to town and back. In the
						forenoon of the 17th the officers of the One Hundred and Sixtieth Indiana paid their
						respects to the regiment by a visit to its officers. They called at the colonel's tent
						where it was suggested that Chaplain Vigus, of the visiting regiment, excuse himself in
						order to call on the chaplain of the One Hundred and Sixty-first, who was at that time
						in his own tent; the chaplain considerately did so.
					In the evening of this day the flag pole that was set up in front of Colonel Bryan's
						headquarters at Camp Cuba Libre in place of the one that was not set up met with a sad
						fate; other men have secured lumber for canes, but it was in the bright light of day,
						but this was done under the cover of night; it only goes to show what crimes are
						committed in the name of politics; the said flag pole had come all the way from
						Jacksonville intact, but the Bryanitically inclined officers who, in army life
						generally, live pretty close to where the flag pole ought to go, could not resist the
						temptation to reduce it to walking-stick lengths which will now come into possession of
						Bryan disciples and 16 to 1  will make them believe all
						the harder in his principles because they have a cane made from his flag pole, and Major
						Smith is willing to leave it to all sound thinking people if that was not a greater
						crime than losing eighteen dollars on a bluff or smuggling mahogany posts out of a
						hospital tent.
					The next day the colonel went to Washington; the men did not know exactly for what,
						but they knew all railroad agents had been forbidden to do business in the regiment and
						they were a little curious and anxious to know what the commanding officer would have to
						say when he returned; he came back on Sunday, the 23d, and after dinner the officers'
						call was blown and the Colonel told them in substance the purpose and result of his
						mission. It had resulted in an invitation from the President of the United States for
						this regiment to return home by way of Washington, at which place he would take pleasure
						in reviewing it. The Secretary of War had also expressed a desire to see again the
						regiment whose splendid appearance and marching had called from him on previous
						occasions words of such high commendation. The trip was to cost the men no more than a
						ticket the shortest way home and would afford to them perhaps the opportunity of their
						lifetime to see the capital city of the nation with its interesting and historical
						sights. The officers then gave an expression, after which the men were called before the
						colonel, and he told them the same things requesting them to think the matter over and
						give their company commanders an expression at retreat and roll call. It was accordingly
						done and the answer came in an almost unanimous desire to accept the President's
						invitation.
					The next morning witnessed a new departure in the guard mount: Lieutenant-Colonel
						Backus was officer of day, Major McGrew mounted the guard, Adjutant Tichenor was  acting sergeant major, and the captains accompanied each
						the detail of men from his company; the boys expected o have a laugh but the major
						fooled them; however, they had it the next morning when Colonel Durbin was made officer
						of the day and Lieutenant-Colonel Backus took his turn at mounting the guard; the boys
						meant no discourtesy to their superior officer, but they simply couldn't help but laugh.
						In the morning Lieutenant Johnson distinguished himself by championing the cause of the
						despised and abused colored woman. The Fourth Virginia men were engaged in the unmanly
						and shameful conduct of tossing a poor defenseless colored washerwoman in a blanket. For
						shame! Let it be a man, boys, even though he be white, 
							Kangaroo Court
						 but a woman is a woman, be her color what it may, and a good black woman is a
						thousand times better than a bad white one. The Savannah Morning News of the 27th,  said: "It was reported last night that a woman who was in
						a delicate condition was tossed in the Fourth Virginia camp day before yesterday, and
						that yesterday she died." How true this report was we do not know, but apart from any
						serious consequence the act was a disreputable outrage, indecent and disgusting, and the
						conduct of those men a disgrace to their own color; to a man of true sentiment it was
						funny, but gratifying, to see the colored washwoman run to the Indiana camp because she
						knew the Hoosiers would protect her.
					On April the 10th General Lee had issued his last General Order to that portion of the
						Seventh Army Corps still in Cuba. It was as follows:
					
						
							
								
									
										
																
				HEADQUARTERS SEVENTH ARMY CORPS,
				CAMP COLUMBIA,
				HAVANA, CUBA, April 10, 1899.
					
										
									
									GENERAL ORDERS NO. 24.

									The order has been received which moves the last regiment of the Seventh Corps
										across the sea to be mustered out of the service of the United States. The ranks
										of its organization are forever broken. The record made by the officers and men
										will be forever preserved. The pages of military history of their country will
										inscribe the deeds of no troops who won a greater reputation for discipline,
										drill, and manly discharge of duty, soldierly conduct and cheerful obedience to
										all orders.
									The President's assurance, had the war with Spain continued, that the Seventh
										Corps would have been selected to lead the assault upon the Havana lines, proves
										that the Corps possessed the confidence of the Commander-in-Chief of the Army
										and Navy, a confidence shared by his fellow countrymen.
									It is gratifying to review the career, and remember the  harmony which existed among the forty thousand soldiers who
										answered the roll-call at Tampa, Jacksonville, Savannah, and Cuba. Whether it
										were the "Volunteers" who afterwards at various times broke ranks, and resumed
										the duties of American citizenship, or the "Regulars," whose standards are still
										flying, and who are now the advance sentinels of American progress and
										civilization,--soldiers of the North and South took the sunshine and storm of
										camp together, and marched side by side under one flag, in one cause, for one
										country.
									Their cordial support and unvarying kindness to the Corps Commander will be
										gratefully cherished, and though his military connection with comrades and
										soldiers be severed, the connection that binds him to what concerns their lives,
										their prosperity and success in days that are to come will never be broken. May
										health and happiness crown their days, and when their thoughts sometimes wander
										back to Camps Cuba Libre, Onward, and Columbia, may their hearts beat quicker as
										they remember they once marched under the banners of the Seventh Army Corps.
									
										FITZHUGH LEE,
											Major General U. S. Volunteers, Commanding.
									
								
							
						
					
					This order was communicated to the One Hundred and Sixty-First Indiana Volunteer
						Regiment by the Colonel on the morning of the 22nd and with it came also his own last
						General Order:
					
						
							
								
									
										
											
				HEADQUARTERS 161st IND. VOLUNTEER INFANTRY,
				IN CAMP NEAR SAVANNAH, GEORGIA,
								
											April 22, 1899.
										
									
									GENERAL ORDER NO. 8.
									In communicating to you General Order No. 247, Havana, Cuba, April 10, which is
										the farewell order of our  recent corps
										commander, General Fitzhugh Lee, your commanding officer desires to add his
										personal testimony, and convey to you in order his parting words of commendation
										of your services to your country--leaving your homes and your civil pursuits
										with only one thought and ambition, and that to answer the call of our President
										to maintain the honor of our flag and punish the insult offered in the
										destruction of the battleship Maine and the murder of part of her gallant
										officers and crew. You gave to the world that you were ready, willing and
										anxious to make any sacrifice required of you, coming as you did unacquainted
										and uneducated in military affairs or training and attaining to a high degree of
										proficiency speaks more than words of mine can convey. Your services have been
										truly honest and faithful; by your intelligence, desire, devotion and hard work,
										you were quickly made acquainted with the details of drills and maneuverings
										necessary. By your conduct and soldierly deportment and bearing you attracted to
										yourselves favorable notice. In your camp conditions, in which none excelled you
										in neatness, tidiness and sanitary conditions, you received the favorable
										commendation of your sueriors. In your drills, tactics, parades and reviews you
										have had the plaudits of men, the compliments and highest praise of officers of
										the highest grade, including the Honorable Secretary of War. These favorable
										expressions belong to you. They have been honestly and honorably earned and will
										be pleasant memories in years to come. You are not returning to your homes
										battle-scarred, and I believe I voice the feeling of each one of you when I say
										that our regret is that no opportunity was afforded to add to honors, bravery
										and gallantry under fire and in battle, and we must quit the service with the
										consolation that what was given us to do we did cheerfully and to the best of
										our ability. In parting as soldiers, let us always cherish the kindliest feeling
											 and consideration for each other, that
										feeling of comradeship which in after years will link us together as brothers.
										In going to your homes in the pursuits of civil life carry with you the
										assurance of your colonel that you are enshrined in his heart's affections and
										for each officer and man of the regiment he has the highest personal regard and
										his prayers and strong desire shall always be for your welfare, and wherever you
										may go may heaven's choicest blessings be yours.
									Thanking you for your willing obedience to orders and requirements, whatever
										their character, at all times.
									
										YOUR COLONEL.
									
								
							
						
					

					On Wednesday evening the officers were the guests of Colonel Durbin at an elaborately
						spread banquet in the banquet hall of the DeSoto. Sergeant-Major Starr was the ranking
						officer in camp and between the hours of 7:30 p. m. and 1 a. m. wore his "blushing
						honors full upon him" in a manner becoming the only sergeant-major who ever commanded a
						regiment. The officers went to the city at 7:30 in two cars especially reserved for them
						at Liberty street, marched to the hotel and were soon gathered around tables formed in a
						hollow square and most beautifully decorated with potted flowers. It was a notable and
						joyous occasion, every man was happy, and yet every one was touched with a solemn
						feeling as they realized that the gathering was a farewell one and that the associations
						that had for the past ten months bound them together were about to be broken and the
						habiliment of the soldier laid aside for the dress of civil life. Between the servings
						there was jovial conversation and fun poked at everybody, and at the close of the repast
						the following toasts were responded to:



					

					
						The American Soldiers--Lieutenant-Colonel Backus.
						The Volunteer Soldier--Captain Ogborn.
						Indiana and her Soldiers--Captain Fortune.
						The Indiana National Guard--Major Megrew.
						Our War with Spain--Lieutenant Welsh.
						Phenastine, and why he fed us Quinine--Major Smith, followed by Lieutenants
							Gerrish and Wilson.
						The Old Army Mule--Quartermaster Brunt.
						Cuba and her Senoritas--Lieutenant Ward.
						The Value of a Pair of Deuces--Captain Scott.
						What we Should Think of Ourselves as Soldiers and Citizens--Chaplain
							Biederwolf.
						How we Won a Home--Major Olds.
						The Lieutenant and How He Got There--Lieuteuant Comstock.
						How the Tenth Infantry made Good Soldiers--Lieutenant Owens.
						The Folks at Home--Captain Guthrie.
						The One Hundred and Sixty-first Volunteer Infantry--Col. Winfield T.
							Durbin.
					

					It was one of those long-to-be-remembered events; everything was said that could be
						said and just those things that should have been said; and it is needless to here state
						the deep appreciation of every one present for the regard and courtesy shown to them by
						their commanding officer. The hour hand was at the smallest figure on the dial when the
						evening was over and the officers returned to camp.
					The hard work had slowly come to an end and the few remaining days gave to every one a
						chance to make any desirable purchases in the city and to pack everything in readiness
						for the coming of the great day. Arrangements had been made for the trip to Washington,
						the regimental horses were sent north over the shortest way, the  officers had sworn before Captain Beckurts concerning their responsibility
						for government property and there was nothing more to do.
					The last regimental formation was held in the open space by the road. The battalions
						formed three sides of a hollow square and the colonel spoke to them. He first told them
						all about the arrangements for leaving; the mustering-out was to begin at 9 o'clock the
						following morning, after which the men would be paid and be at liberty, all reporting at
						2 o'clock at the Plant System depot ready to start; he gave to the officers such
						instruction by which they were to effect with order and dispatch the business of the
						morrow. He then spoke a few words of parting to the regiment asking that all grievances
						be laid aside and that the spirit of manliness which had characterized them in their
						military career go with them into civil life. He wished them all God speed and asked
						that if in the future by reason of their changed uniform he should fail to recognize
						them they should pull his coat tail and tell him who they were and he would--the
						chaplain standing near deterred him he said from saying what he would do.
						Lieutenant-Colonel Backus called the officers to the front and told Colonel Durbin of a
						meeting of the regimental officers at which two committees were appointed, one of which
						was then ready to report. The other committee appointed for the purpose of selecting a
						suitable remembrance for the regimental commander was reported at a later date after
						muster-out, but Major Olds, chairman of the committee on resolutions, stepped out and
						addressed the colonel in the following appropriate remarks:
						
					COLONEL DURBIN: The meeting which brings us here
						this afternoon is indeed a sad one. We come here knowing it is to be the last formation
						of an organization which has grown dear to the hearts of each and every one of us.



					


					Friendships formed in the army are stronger than those formed under any other
						circumstances. This is doubly true of the friendships formed in this regiment. Ten
						months ago when we assembled in the city of Indianapolis for the purpose of organization
						scarcely any of us. had acquaintances in the regiment outside of those members who came
						from the immediate vicinities of our home towns. We go forth bearing friendships
						stronger than any we have ever formed. There are many circumstances which have brought
						this about, but we, the officers of this. regiment, believe it mainly due to the
						untiring devotion and the efficient and honorable methods pursued by our regimental
						rommander. True we have put forth our best efforts and have tried to do our duty, but
						all that would have gone for naught had we not had an efficient and capable leader,--but
						we had such a leader--a leader who by the strength of his personality, by the
						earnestness of his purpose and by the support which he was able to command, could unify
						and strengthen our efforts.
					Moved by these sentiments, we, the officers of the regiment, offer you the following
						resolutions.
					The following resolutions were then read and handed. to the colonel:

					WHEREAS, The One Hundred and Sixty-first Regiment of Indiana
						Volunteer Infantry has been brought to a high degree of efficiency through the energetic
						and telling efforts of Colonel Winfield T. Durbin. Therefore be it
					
						That we, the officers of the regiment, express to Colonel
							Durbin our friendship, loyalty and gratitude for his untiring devotion to the welfare
							of his command.
						That we are profoundly grateful to him for the sacrifices he has made in
							response to the dictates of patriotism  and for his
							many acts of kindness and consideration shown us.
						That in the muster out of the regiment, the Volunteer Army loses a
							faithful, energetic and able commanding officer; the officers and men a true and noble
							friend.
						That though he is called upon to lay aside the habiliments of a soldier
							for duties of a citizen, we wish him unbounded success in civil pursuits, and that our
							hearts will ever be with him.
					
					
						LEE M. OLDS,
						RICHARD W. BUCHANAN,
						JOHN R. WARD,
						OLIVER M. TICHENOR,
						JAMES W. FORTUNE,
						Committee on Resolutions.
					

					It was evident that these words had gone to the right spot and moved the colonel with
						deep feeling, and after a moment's pause he responded with words of thanks and
						appreciation for what, he said, he felt was more than he deserved. The men went back to
						their tents and after supper every one sat up long into the hours of night reluctant to
						retire because they knew it was the last night they would sleep as soldiers. The tension
						of strict discipline was of course relaxed and the first half of the night was made
						noisy with the songs of happy soldiers, and only when the repertoire of familiar songs
						was exhausted, the past ten months retrospected, and the future prospected, did the men
						roll into their blankets for the purpose of trying to sleep till morning.
					Early in the day that followed, the big affair began. Talk about hustling--the day saw
						it in all its fury. The place was turned into a scene much like a county fair.  Peddlers of every description were on hand. Trunk selling
						was the chief paying business, and before the camp was up great piles of trunks had been
						hauled into the grounds and arranged by sizes ready for the men to take their pick.
						Waterman had a special tent in a conspucious place, and his big sign for Cuban
						photographs helped his business out and the side show appearance of the affair as well.
						On three of the headquarters tents were huge colored signs telling the boys where to get
						their tickets while the ticket wagon was ready to wait on all who were going direct
						home.
					Aunt Chloe was there with her melodious voice crying "nice cool lemonade, two glasses
						for five," while another with huskier tones cried, "hyar's de place whar you git your
						lemon pies; dey is as fresh as you make 'ern an dey haint no joke 'bout dat neither."
						Other edibles were carried about mixed up with sand that filled the baskets because of a
						spanking wind that whizzed around the tents and peppered everything with flying dust. At
						every tent door was a sable face inquiring if dey was any old thing de soldier wa'nt
						gwine to tote up north; and the old Confederate loon was there cackling for a nickle,
						and if he got it he God-blessed you and said you had a true soldier's heart for helping
						a poor old Confed., and if he didn't get it he said it the other way and said you had a
						stingy heart like every other d- d Yankee in the army. The photograph man was there, the
						venders of relics and of parrots were there, and of canaries and dogs too, all warranted
						to have come from Cuba. Three paymasters were on the ground, one in each of the
						battalion commander's tents.
					Promptly at 9 o'clock the procession began. It was started by Company A. They lined up
						by the mustering-out office, the captain called the roll and each man cried "here" and
						stepped out at the sound of his name to fall in a new double rank forming at right
						angles to the first--this  was all--he was mustered out.
						Then in line for his pay; then at the proper place for his railroad ticket and off to
						the city to await the starting of the train to Washington. It was 1 o'clock before the
						staff and band were paid; the camp was rapidly being deserted, hacks were in demand and
						the once private was as swell as the swellest in his transit to the city.
					One by one with a parting glance the soldiers left the place--camp life was over, a
						strange feeling filled the men--no one could say "do this" or "do that" and every one
						did what he chose to do.
					For an hour a great crowd of soldiers surged about the Plant System depot. Those unable
						to get tickets at camp after much trying of the patience, got them here. The fact is,
						the regiment had too much executive ability that worked too well for the railroads. They
						did not understand how it could be done and were not prepared to take their part as per
						agreed calculations.
					At 2:10 P. M. the first section moved. It carried
						Companies A, I, L and M; also Colonel Durbin, Majors Smith and Olds and Lieutenants
						Brunt and Tichenor. The second section started at 2:40 P. M., loaded with Companies F, G, H and C; Major Megrew, Lieutenant
						Wilson and Chaplain Biederwolf accompanied this section. The third section left soon
						after, carrying Lieutenant-Colonel Backus, Lieutenant Gerrish and the remaining
						companies.
					Three trains full of happy soldiers--a few happy soldiers full too, but in general an
						orderly set of fellows who did not steal silver spoons from railway restaurants and
						always paid for what they ate--three big crowds of happy Hoosiers on their way to
						Washington--alas so soon to be disappointed! It was very evident we had met our Waterloo
						simply because an honorable contract was made with a 
						concern that had no conscience. The railroad concern had no intention of carrying out
						their contract; it was a shameful robbery by an unprincipled management. The baggage car
						arrangement for preparing coffee was a deception; water and other needful things could
						not be procured half of the time, but all the inconveniences could have been endured
						with little complaint had any effort been made to get the train to its destination with
						any reasonable limit of the appointed time. The trains dragged along the rails at a
						freight train rate and side tracked for everything that had a whistle to it, and instead
						of arriving at Washington at 9 A. M., the first
						section pulled in at 4:30 P. M., the second two
						hours later, and the third correspondingly behind the second. Great preparations had
						been made for the reception; crowds had gathered around the White House long before noon
						and waited until long in the afternoon, and after waiting in vain they left the place
						where the reception was to occur--the regiment did not come. The Indianans at Washington
						were as disappointed as the regiment; they had taken much pains in the matter and were
						going to do the affair in a way worthy of Hoosiers, but the railroad had the soldiers'
						money and it was no concern of theirs when the soldiers got to the place they had paid
						to go. However, had the regiment arrived on time a disappointment would still have been
						in store for it. Every arrangement had been made as Colonel Durbin had announced, but
						unforeseen circumstances prevented President McKinley from returning to the capital on
						the day appointed for the reveiw.
					The following telegrams will be of interest in this connection:



					

					
						
							
								
									
										
																
				"WASHINGTON, D. C,, April 29, 1899.
				
										
									
									"To Colonel Durbin, One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer
										Infantry, Savannah, Georgia.
									"Upon arrival of your regiment at Washington, President will review it at
										portico of White House, and afterwards receive members in the east room of the
										executive mansion; please give early notification of time of departure, route
										traveled and expected hour of arrival in Washington. Acknowledge.
									
										"HEISTAND, Assistant Adjutant-General."
									
								
							
						
					

					On the train going to Washington the colonel received the following not far from
						Fredericksburg:
					
						
							
								
									
										
																
				"WASHINGTON, D. C., May 1, 1899.
				
										
									
									"Colonel Durbin: Your telegram stating you will arrive at 4 o'clock received.
										The President is unavoidably detained in New York and will not be home until
										to-morrow. Secretary of War also absent from city. These facts are communicated
										to you to enable you to determiue upon your line of action. Acknowledge
										receipt.
									
										"HEISTAND, Assistant Adjutant-General.".
									
								
							
						
					

					The pleasure and satisfaction of the review would thus have failed the regiment in any
						event of arrival, but the rest of an interesting program could have been carried out
						much to the satisfaction of all concerned. The first section was met by the marine band
						and escorted to the White House. Before entering the colonel told the men of his own
						bitter disappointment, which was perhaps greater than that of the men.
					The second section came in not long before the first was ready to depart, and later the
						third. The first section left about 7 o'clock. The men of the other sections spent some
						time about the city, and near midnight and morning started west, the trains breaking up
						at Cincinnati and  Louisville. Company M left the first
						section at Cincinnati and Companies I, L and A came on to Indianapolis with the colonel.
						Expected here in the evening as per scheduled time, again extensive preparations were
						made for the reception of these three companies. In the State House a stand trimmed with
						the colors had been erected for music and speakers, a supper had been prepared and
						waiting for the train that did not come was next in order. Early in the morning we awoke
						and found that the train had actually arrived in Indianapolis. At 6 A. M. the boys marched to the State House where the good ladies
						who had lost all the night's sleep waiting, had come at this early hour to give the boys
						their breakfast. The boys were ravenously hungry and after being assured that any one of
						them who choked to death would be given a pension, they went at the table in a way that
						always pleases a woman when she has worked hard to prepare a good meal. Breakfast, over
						Governor Mount, who, with his good wife, had come so early to the State House to meet
						the boys, stood to address them. He told the men how proud the state was of the regiment
						to which they had belonged, and gave them in the name of the commonwealth a cordial
						welcome home. Colonel Durbin responded, first thanking the ladies for their goodness and
						then emphasizing the fact that the regiment had tried to do its duty well; he then
						presented to the state through the Governor the regimental colors and the flag. Governor
						Mount briefly responded, telling the men the flags would be kept in the State House
						where, when in the city, they could come and look upon them. Senator Fairbanks then
						spoke briefly and after the men made the marble corriders ring and echo with rousing
						cheers, they went slowly back to their train.
					From this time on the experience of one company was the experience of them all, and
						something like the experience  of Company Q, of the Two
						Hundredth Indiana, in which Si Klegg was a corporal. "The Company Q boys received an
						overpowering welcome at home. The people from the village and the adjacent country
						turned out en masse to greet them as they alighted from the train.
						Farmer Klegg and his wife and Maria, proud and eager, were there; and joyful tears
						flowed unchecked as they twined their arms around son and brother and pressed him to
						their beating hearts. Annabel was there, with moist eyes and a flush upon her soft
						cheek.
					Si had grown brave now, and as soon as the family embrace relaxed he advanced and put
						his arms around her as unflinchingly as if she had been a rebel battery.
					Tumultuous cheers rent the air, the band played and banners waved in honor of the
						soldiers' return from the war.
					A sumptuous dinner was served to them in the town hall, and the village orators
						exhausted their eloquence in giving them welcome and glorifying their deeds of
						valor.
					By the time the speakers got through, the veterans were pretty well convinced that if
						it had not been for Company Q the war would have been a failure--on the Union side.
					Then the boys were taken in charge by their respective friends. In anticipation of Si's
						return, his mother and sister had for days done little except cook, and he found himself
						in a land flowing with milk and honey.
					That night Si had the "best bed" in the house. As he threw himself upon it he sank down
						in a sea of feathers that almost covered him. Of course he could not sleep in such a
						bed, and in the morning when his mother went to call him to breakfast, she was amazed to
						find him lying on the floor. "Tell ye what 'tis mother," he said, "I didn't like ter go
						back on yer nice bed, but 'twa'n't no use. I swum 'round 'n them fethers purty much all
						night, but I couldn't  git to sleep t'll I bunked down
						on the floor. That's a leetle more like the beds I slep on 'n the army. I b'liev t'night
						I'll rig up a pup tent, put down some rails ter lie on, 'n take my old U. S. blanket 'n
						crawl in."
					This is all pretty much right, but the pup-tent and the rail racket--just put up a
						common A tent and put down some Florida pine and we guarantee the boys will sleep,
						though feather beds aint so bad to swim around in either. We wish
						every man who fell a victim to the connubial epidemic all the success that Si had and in
						the walks of civil life health, happiness and prosperity. The habiliment of a soldier
						has been laid aside for the apparel of a citizen; the thought of citizenship should come
						to every member of the One Hundred and Sixty-first with a profounder meaning because of
						this experience in the service. So glorious has been the past of the American Republic,
						so significant is its present, so grand is its prospect that to be a citizen of such a
						nation is a proud distinction.
					No time in all its history has the nation needed more men of sterling worth than in
						this present time; with the glory of victory adding fresh luster to its flag of stars
						and stripes there has come an added burden and consequent responsibility of government
						that shall strain every fiber and tax every energy of this nation we proudly call our
						own. Questions are about to arise involving the most enormous interests, and if the true
						force of manhood and right citizenship is not brought to bear upon them they will be
						solved by those with baser motives than ought to prompt a man of genuine patriotism, and
						in it all the honor of the nation is at stake; and as we have done our duty well
						wherever duty called, as the excellent esprit de corps that has
						moulded our experience as soldiers has brought to us the highest commendation that could
						rest  upon such a body of men, so let us follow the
						walks of civil life, giving to our nation and to our state our best thought, our best
						interest and unselfish endeavor, counting it always a high privilege to serve a flag the
						most beautiful, the most noble and the most powerful that ever kissed the sunshine of
						God, OLD GLORY, THE FLAG OF THE STARS AND STRIPES.




					

					
						COLONEL WINFIELD T. DURBIN.

						Winfield T. Durbin, of Anderson, was the man upon whom was placed the honor and the
							responsibility of commanding the last regiment of men that went out from Indiana. The
							glory of what a thing becomes belongs severally to those whose influence helps to
							shape it and the enviable reputation acquired by the One Hundred and Sixty-first
							Indiana belongs in a degree to every man, be he an officer or private, who took a
							pride in his regiment and tried to do his duty well for his regiment and for his
							country's sake, but the man who occupies the place of greatest responsibility, the man
							upon whose mind depend the ideals toward which an institution shapes itself and upon
							whose ability to execute depends the final approach to those ideals is the man to whom
							the greatest honor must fall when he proves himself worthy of his position. A regiment
							is generally and to a great degree always what its commanding officer makes it and the
							fact that the regiment whose superior officer was Winfield T. Durbin stood so high in
							the estimation of the highest army officials, that it was worthy of such recognition
							as that given by the honorable secretary of war, when he declared concerning the
							cleanliness and condition of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana camp that "it was
							a revelation," a "marvel," and in a public manner declared on the reviewing field and
							twice afterward that the regiment was the finest he had ever seen,--this fact
							certainly does reflect the greatest honor on the man who controlled its movements and
							accordingly made its name a reminder of all that a body of thirteen hundred soldiers
							ought to become.
						Colonel Durbin did not seek the position; the position was seeking for the man, and
							it found him puzzled over some needed repairs amid the noise and rattle of 
							
								COLONEL WINFIELD T. DURBIN.
							
							 machinery in the works of the Diamond Paper Company
							at Anderson. The call came quick and unexpected. His wife and son were on the
							Continent; without the possibility of consulting them or apprising them of his
							intention, he decided; he did not leave his plow standing in the field, but he did
							leave the old smashed up engine lying in the factory and started for the capital city
							of his state whence he had been called. The CALL was his marching orders. Colonel
							Durbin was born at Lawrenceburg, Indiana, May 4, 1847, when he was but three years old
							his parents moved to New Philadelphia, and there he spent his early days, securing
							such educational advantages as were offered by the village schools of his boyhood
							home. He was fourteen years of age when the Civil war began; one by one he saw his
							five older brothers enlist to fight for the Union, and his young heart stirred him to
							offer himself. Accordingly in 1862 he endeavored to enlist in the Sixteenth Indiana,
							but owing to temporary disability was not accepted, but went with the regiment and
							participated with it through part of the Vicksburg campaign, rendering good service in
							the battles of Vicksburg, Arkansas Post and elsewhere. He then enlisted in the One
							Hundred and Thirty-ninth Indiana. This was in the following year, 1863, and at the
							close of war he remained for four years with his father who was at that time engaged
							in the tanning business. In 1869, a young man of twenty-two, he went to Indianapolis
							and entered upon a clerkship in one of the city's large jobbing dry goods
							establishments; he held position with the firm for ten years, and when at the
							expiration of this time he was prepared to leave, he had by his faithful industry and
							business ability become the head manager of the office force.
						On the 6th of October, 1875, he married Miss Bertha McCullough, of Anderson and went
							in 1879 to the city of  his bride to engage in
							mercantile and banking pursuits. That he was a successful business man his present
							connection with the business interests of that place fully attest. He is president of
							the Anderson Foundry and Machine Works, vice president of the J. W. Sefton
							Manufacturing Company, and general manager and treasurer of the Diamond Paper
							Company.
						For six years he was a school trustee of Anderson during which time he materially
							aided in the erection of several of the finest school buildings in the state.
						No figure has been more prominent in political circles during the past fifteen years
							than Colonel Durbin; his fine executive ability and sound judgment has placed him in
							constant demand of his party. He was a presidental elector in 1888, a delegate to the
							National Republican convention at Minnaepolis in 1892, and was chairman of the
							committee that notified Whitelaw Reid of his nomination to the Vice Presidency. He was
							also a delegate to the same convention in St. Louis in 1896. He is now a member of the
							national Republican committee for Indiana and a member of the executive committee.
						Colonel Durbin always had a high ideal for his regiment and was solicitous for its
							interests in every particular; he so placed this ideal before the men until every
							private had taken unusual pride in the appearance and reputation of his organization.
							The health of the men was always a subject of deep concern on the colonel's part; he
							used every precautionary means to keep the camp in the best possible sanitary
							condition, attending in person with the surgeon on his tours of camp inspection, and
							in Jacksonville when malarial indisposition rendered so many of the men unfit for
							duty, scarce sick enough to be sent to the hospital, yet needing special nourishment
							and more comfortable sleeping quarters, Colonel Durbin at his own  expense erected what might be called a recuperation hospital, a large
							and substantial frame building, into which the men were sent and where cots and milk
							diet, so far as the latter was procurable, were furnished them.
						Colonel Durbin did not know the men personally; and consequetly there was no
							partiality and no favors for special ones, but the humblest private was always welcome
							to his tent and men who may have hesitated to approach him always came away feeling
							they had been treated with all due kindness on the part of their regimental
							commander.
						He is versatile and a man of jovial disposition, but could be stern to severity when,
							in his judgment, it became necessary, and under such circumstances when he spoke every
							one knew that he meant what he said and he was obeyed. That the regiment has received
							its well-known recognition and its favors the men have always felt has been due to the
							influence of the man at its head.
						At the organization of the Society of the Seventh Army Corps March 25, 1899, Colonel
							Durbin was chosen a member of the executive council.
					





					

					
						OLIVER M. TICHENOR.

						Oliver M. Tichenor, first lieutenant and adjutant, was one of the regiment's busy
							men. No commission less than a captain's should ever be given an adjutant. This
							energetic 
								OLIVER M. TICHENOR.
							 young officer was born near Princeton, Indiana, April 21, 1864. He received
							the excellent training that is found in farm life, and entering Princeton's high
							school, graduated  in 1883. He was at once appointed
							deputy treasurer of Gibson county. From 1889 until 1894 he held the position of
							postmaster at Princeton, and then for four years traveled as freight and passenger
							agent of the Peoria, Decatur & Evansville railroad, which position he resigned to
							accept the appointment of chief deputy collector of internal revenue, and July 12,
							1898, he placed in the hands of his employer his resignation that he might accept the
							commission urged upon him in which he was made adjutant of the One Hundred and
							Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry.
						Lieutenant Tichenor was journal clerk of the Indiana legislature in 1886-7, and but
							for his youth would doubtless have been elected to the clerkship of the supreme court
							of Indiana, for which position he was a candidate in 1894.
					



					

					
						JOHN RICH BRUNT.

						First Lieutenant and Quartermaster John Rich Brunt is a man fitted for the
							responsible position he held by a life of varied business experiences. He was born in
							Madison 
								JOHN RICH BRUNT.
							 county, Indiana, July 29, 1845, and is consequently the oldest man in the
							regiment. His grandfather was Nathan Lee, of Virginia, and was killed in the war of
							1812 at  Sackett's Harbor. When twenty years old
							Lieutenant Brunt went into what was then the far west, where for five years he
							remained, leading the life of a hunter and scout. It was his intention to return for a
							collegiate course, but the fascination of frontier life changed that intention, and
							until 1870 he was a scout and guide. In this year he was united in marriage to Miss
							Lois C. Vanlandingham, daughter of a cousin to Hon. Clement L. Vanlandingham. After
							his marriage he gave up the adventurous life he was leading and became bookkeeper and
							manager for a railroad contractor at what afterwards became Chanute, Kansas, in which
							place Lieutenant Brunt built the first house ever erected. He then served four years
							as under sheriff at Osage Mission, Neosho county, Kansas, and followed this by a four
							years' term in office as sheriff. He then embarked in business at the same place, and
							a few years later bought the Neosho County Journal, which he successfully managed for
							eight years. During Cleveland's first administration Lieutenant Brunt was postmaster
							at Osage Mission.
						In December, 1889, after an absence of twenty-four years, he turned his face toward
							his native state, and made his home at Anderson, Indiana, which place, on the
							organization of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana, he left to accept a
							commission as quartermaster of the regiment. While at Anderson he was secretary and
							treasurer of the Anderson Iron & Bolt Company, and its receiver for two and a half
							years after its failure, and upon its reorganization was made secretary and manager,
							resigning this position in February, 1898. In 1886 Lieutenant Brunt was the Democratic
							nominee for congress from the Eighth Indiana district, and made an excellent race
							against overwhelming odds.
						Upon the organization of the regiment he was 
							appointed to the position of ordnance officer, which office he held in addition to his
							position as regimental quartermaster. On February 24, 1899, he was made acting
							regimental commissary officer during the illness of Lieutenant Freeman, and he
							accordingly was responsible for the work of three positions. He continued in this
							latter position one month.
						During the months of September and October, 1898, at Camp Cuba Libre, he was acting
							brigade quartermaster of the First Brigade, Third Division. Quartermaster Brunt
							understood his place; he got for his regiment what others in a like position did, and
							usually a little more, and if the staff and line were in large tents as well as the
							men; if, in fact, the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana was the best tented regiment
							in the corps, it must be placed to his credit that it was so. He is a plain man,
							without boast, but what he does he does well.
					



					

					
						WILLIAM E. BIEDERWOLF.

						Captain William Edward Biederwolf, chaplain of the regiment, offered his resignation
							to the Broadway Presbyterian church, in Logansport, Indiana, that he might go to 
								WILLIAM E. BIEDERWOLF.
							 care for the spiritual needs of the boys of the One Hundred and Sixty-first
							Indiana. He was born in the year 1867, on September 29, at Monticello, Indiana.
							Graduating  from the high school of his native place,
							he taught school for one year, and then, in the fall of '86, entered Wabash College,
							Crawfordsville. After four years' work in this institution, he entered Princeton
							University, at Princeton, New Jersey. Upon graduation here, he began his theological
							course in the seminary of the same place, receiving his degree in 1895. After a year's
							evangelistic work with Rev. B. Fay Mills, the evangelist, in April, 1896, he was
							married to Miss Ida Casad, of Monticello, Indiana. They went at once to Germany, where
							for eighteen months he enjoyed the privilege of study in New Testament Greek, as
							Fellowship scholar from Princeton Theological Seminary. After traveling to the Holy
							Land he returned and accepted the pastorate of the Broadway Presbyterian church, in
							November, 1897. Captain Biederwolf, during his study at Princeton, devoted his
							vacations to rescue work in the slums of New York city. He is a lover of athletic
							sports, and was for four years a member of Princeton's athletic and gymnastic teams,
							and in other ways connected with her athletic interests. Chaplain Biederwolf took
							delight in his work and the men called him their friend.
						Writing of a chaplain's work from an experimental and retrospective view point, one
							sees discouragements and hindrances unthought of at the initial stage of that
							experience, and which in spite of any further recognition of the man and his work
							which is justly due from the highest military authority must still depend for their
							alleviation upon circumstances of character with which the war department has nothing
							to do. The efficiency of the chaplain's work depends upon other things besides "what
							the chaplain makes it," which nothing but the grace of God can remedy. Some men have
							written that army life is a character moulder. 'Tis false--the drift, or better still
							the current, of army life is anti-moral and anti-religious; neither  space nor appropriateness of place permit any defense
							of this statement, but experience proves it in spite of exceptions. The chaplain of
							the One Hundred and Sixty-first is not elated over his work. He is, however, on the whole proud of the morale of the regiment it was his privilege
							to serve; it was as good as any and better than
							many, due more to the make-up of the men than to anything he was permitted to do. But
							he knows the ministrations inthe hospital among the sick and the dying, the
							friendships with the men, the words of counsel and the utterances from the place of
							worship were not in vain, and that even results unseen below eternity will reveal in
							rich fruition.
						And yet much of the chaplain's work does depend upon what he makes it and with this
							in mind early efforts were made to purchase a suitable tent for assembly purpose.
							Nearly all the towns from which the boys came donated liberally, a large 50 x 80 tent
							was purchased, and through help from the Christian Commission, furnished with an
							organ, with reading, games and writing material. At times peculiarly appropriate for
							letter writing, from six hundred to seven hundred letters a day were written from the
							tables of this tent. The first ten days in Jacksonville, nightly evangelistic services
							were held by Fred Schivera. Services were held every Sunday by the chaplain, usually
							morning and evening. An occasional concert given and such other meetings held as were
							legitimate for such a place. Elbert M. Blake, of Company K, was detailed to care for
							the tent and was a most valuable aid to the chaplain. After the severe storm the
							center piece was left out and the tent became circular with a fifty-foot diameter. At
							Savannah, Fred C. King, Company G, had charge of the work; in Cuba, Chas. Sheller,
							Company G, for one month, and John Coates, Company A, for a few weeks, when Mr. Blake
							was again put in charge.



						

						Some of the most precious moments and glorious hours were those spent by the cot side
							of sick in the wards of the hospital.
						There was much of this to do in Jacksonville and when the regiment left for Savannah,
							eighty-seven men were left behind in the tents of the Third Division Hospital. The
							chaplain was granted the privilege of staying with them, and the writing of letters
							for them, furnishing them with such delicacies as medical authority would allow, the
							moments of serious conversation and the bidding them good-bye as they were helped into
							the hospital trains bound for the north, were experiences for which one may well be
							grateful and feel that his ministry was worth its while.
						It was hard to sympathize with many of the men who took up their lodgings in the
							quarters shown in the following cut. It was all voluntary, the men didn't have to go
							there, that is, at a period considerably prior to their registration, but when once
							there resolutions were readily made that they would never go again nor recommend its
							accommodations. These resolutions and promises, whose place if not the chaplain's to
							help the men to keep them, and as so many would have it that the building on opposite
							page and similar institutions belonged to the ecclesiastical department, its cut is
							appropriately and with pleasure inserted here.




						

						
							BASTILE, CAMP CUBA LIBRE.
						

					
				

				


				


				
					FIRST BATTALION
						K, M, A, E.


					

					
						VICTOR M. BACKUS.

						Lieutenant-Colonel Victor M. Backus is a born soldier. His grandfather was an officer
							on Napoleon's staff, his father was a soldier and Colonel Backus himself a hard 
								VICTOR M. BACKUS.
							 Union fighter in the war of Rebellion. He therefore brought with him into
							the recent service a large experience of army life and this with his peculiar genius
							and characteristic  earnestness made him an invaluable
							officer of the regiment in which he served.
						He was born at Williamsburg, New York, the 27th day of March, 1850. When six years of
							age his parents came to Franklin, Indiana, and six years later moved to Indianapolis.
							His school education was meagre, being interrupted by the war, where he felt, young as
							he was, that he was needed and therefore belonged. He was only eleven years old, he
							waited two years and then succeeded in gaining enlistment in the Seventeenth Indiana
							Regiment, then a part of the Army of the Cumberland. General Wilder commanded the
							brigade and General Gerrard, the division. He was a brave and daring soldier and
							although but a boy, bore well the part of the strongest man. He fought at Dalton,
							Resaca, Rome, Big Shanty, Noonday Creek, Kennesaw Mountain, Peach Tree Creek and many
							other battles. In all he was actively engaged in nineteen battles and fifty-one
							skirmishes. It will be remembered that it was Wilder's brigade that made the famous
							charge against the breast works of Selma. Assault after assault had been made when
							Wilder hurled his men against the stubborn resistance and went over the works at a
							great cost of life, but thereby making possible the almost complete destruction of
							General Forrest's command.
						At Macon, Georgia, Colonel Backus was made one of a picked detail of sixty men to
							effect the capture of Jefferson Davis, who it was learned was attempting to escape to
							the west. This detail came up with another within an exceedingly close distance from
							where it had captured the fallen Confederacy's president, and together they brought
							him back to Macon and with him another prisoner of distinction then, and of still
							greater fame to-day--fighting Joe Wheeler, the hero of Santiago.
						At the close of the war the fifteen-year-old soldier was  mustered out at Macon, August 12, 1865, and taken to Indianapolis for
							final discharge. He had reason to be proud of his record. He never missed a battle in
							which his regiment was engaged and from beginning to end was never once in attendance
							at sick call.
						There was no more fighting to be done and the youth entered the Shaw Company Carriage
							works as an apprentice at seven dollars per week; but in ten years after taking this
							position, he had by his constant diligence and earnest application acquired a one-half
							interest in the concern, and a few years later he had purchased Colonel Shaw's
							interest and the firm was known as V. M. Backus & Company.
						In 1890 the colonel was nominated by the democratic party for county and city
							treasurer of the county of Marion, and the city of Indianapolis. He was elected by a
							handsome majority. At the expiration of his term of office he turned his attention
							wholly to the business of contracting, undertaking and satisfactorily completing some
							of the largest and most important systems of sewerage and other works in the
							country.
						When the war with Spain came on Victor M. Backus raised a regiment and offered it to
							Governor Mount two days before the president issued his first call for troops. The
							members of the state militia being already sufficient in numbers to furnish the
							state's required quota, the colonel's regiment could not be given place. Upon the
							second call for troops the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana was created and the
							position of lieutenant-colonel tendered him, which he accepted and which position he
							has filled with the greatest acceptability.
						His experience in contracting has made him an invaluable part of the regiment. He
							cheerfully assumed that which properly was the duty of others; he was always busy and
							always had some scheme to keep others busy.  To him
							must be given much of the praise for the building and adornment of the camp. The
							seven-pointed cement star, the bamboo band stand, the monument and the Backus garbage
							burner, warranted to cremate anything from water to a stone, will always be connected
							with his name.
						He was commander of the First Battalion, but was often in command of the regiment
							while Colonel Durbin commanded the brigade. He made a capable officer, and a good
							disciplinarian; be was not hard to approach and his easy-going manner made for him
							friends throughout the whole regiment.
					

					

					
						COMPANY K.

						

						
							WILFRED T. STOTT.

							Captain Wilfred T. Stott, son of Dr. W. T. Stott, president of Franklin College,
								was born March 6, 1869, at Columbus, Indiana. He was graduated from Franklin College
								at the age of twenty-one and soon after became engaged in the newspaper business as
								a reporter. In this profession he continued until the outbreak of hostilities
								against Spain. His first work was done on the Indianapolis News. Later he entered
								the University of Chicago and took a three years literary course at that
								institution, supporting himself in the meantime by reportorial work on the Chicago
								Tribune. Afterward he was employed on that paper for a number of years. In 1897 he
								returned to his native city and purchased the Republican, a daily and weekly paper,
								which he published for a year.
							During the stay of the regiment at Savannah, Georgia, Captain Stott was detailed as
								recruiting officer for the regiment 
								
									CAPTAIN WILFRED T. STOTT.
								 and was absent in Indiana on that duty for one month. He has served in the
								Indiana National Guards for five years and is a son of a veteran, his father being a
								captain in the Civil war.
						

						

						
							CHARLES C. SMITH.

							First Lieutenant Charles C. Smith was born December 22, 1871, at South Bethany,
								Indiana. He was educated in the public schools of Columbus, Indiana, and soon after
								completing his education became engaged in the pension 
								
									FIRST LIEUTENANT CHARLES C. SMITH.
								 sion business. He continued in this business until 1893, when he formed a
								partnership with Samuel W. Daugherty under the firm name of Daugherty & Smith,
								and purchased the business of his former employer, to which real estate and
								insurance business was added.
							Lieutenant Smith has served three years in the Indiana National Guards and is the
								son of a soldier.
						

						

						
							TEMPLE H. OWENS.

							Second Lieutenant Temple Hubert Owens was born in Noblesville, Indiana, July 14,
								1876. He was educated  in Columbus, graduating from
								the high schools of that city in 1895. Since that time until entering the service he
								was engaged in newspaper work, being employed on the local papers of his home city,
								besides acting as correspondent for many of the metropolitan dailies.
							For three months during his service with the One 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT TEMPLE HUBERT OWENS.
								 Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana he was detailed on duty with the Tenth
								United States Infantry at Havana and Mantanzas, serving as lieutenant in Company F,
								and also as adjutant of the Second Battalion.
							Lieutenant Owens also acted as adjutant of the First  Battalion, One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana, at Camp Cuba Libre. His father
								was a veteran, having served during the entire Civil war.
						

						

						
							COMPANY HISTORY.

							Company K was organized at Columbus, Indiana, April 28, 1898. At the meeting at
								which the organization was perfected two hundred men were enrolled.
							W. T. Stott was elected captain and C. C. Smith, first lieutenant, and T. H. Owens,
								second lieutenant. A strenuous effort was made by the officers and men and citizens
								of Columbus to have the company ordered out on the first call for troops. Feeling
								confident, however, that it would later be called into service, the organization was
								maintained, though a number of the members enlisted in the regular army and in the
								volunteer regiments already accepted.
							The second call for troops found the company in readiness, the armory having been
								converted into temporary barracks and daily drills having been conducted for several
								weeks.
							In accordance with orders from Governor Mount, the organization reported at Camp
								Mount July 4, 1898, after having undergone a preliminary physical examination at the
								home station. Company K, which designation was later given, arrived at Camp Mount
								with a greater number of men than any other company, there being one hundred and
								thirty-two in the ranks. It was also strongest in point of numbers when mustered in,
								July 13, 1898, entering the service with one hundred and five enlisted men.
							The company was assigned to the First Battalion, and at the time of muster-out was
								the ranking company of that 
								
									COMPANY K.
								
								 battalion. It has been fortunate in having a
								complement of good non-commissioned officers. The list of sergeants remained
								unchanged during the service of the company. This organization bore distinction for
								its many tall men and for its excellence at drill.
						

						

						
							COMPANY K ROSTER.

							
								WILFRED T. STOTT, Captain, Columbus,
									Ind., Reporter.
								CHARLES C. SMITH, 1st Lieutenant,
									Columbus, Ind., Insurance Agent.
								TEMPLE H. OWENS, 2nd Lieutenant,
									Columbus, Ind., Reporter.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Thompson, William A., 1st Serg't, Columbus, Ind., Civil Engineer, promoted to
									1st Serg't Nov. 3, 1898.
								Bray, Charles, Q. M. Serg't, Columbus, Ind., Mechanic, promoted to Serg't Nov.
									3, 1898.
								McGovney, Charles S., Columbus, Ind., Student.
								Voris, G. Ashley, Columbus, Ind., Clerk.
								Carr, Frank, Columbus, Ind., Miller.
								Wynegar, Eugene, Columbus, Ind., Stenographer.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Haislup, Harry H., Columbus, Ind., Cabinetmaker.
								Oliphant, Wilfred H., Noblesville, Ind., Painter.
								Ghrist, Orlando P., Columbus, Ind., Tailor.
								Allison, Franklin E., Hope, Ind., Teacher.
								Day, Elmer C., Columbus, Ind., Mechanic.
								Cobb, Edwin A., Columbus, Ind., Student, discharged Feb. 4, 1899.
								Pruitt, Elmer T., Edinburg, Ind., Laborer, discharged March 13, 1899.
								McCoy, Harry, Columbus, Ind., Clerk, transferred to 3rd Div. Hosp. Corps Aug.
									20, 1898.



								

								
									SERGEANTS, COMPANY K.
								



								


								Luse, Joseph L., Edinburg, Ind., Stenographer, appointed Corp. Aug. 29,
									1898.
								Von Willer, Adolph R., Columbus, Ind., Laborer, appointed Corp. Aug. 29,
									1898.
								Tobrocke, Frank A., Waymansville, Ind., Clerk, appointed Corp. Aug. 29,
									1898.
								Roth, Louis A., Edinburg, Ind., Laborer, appointed Corp. Sept. 26,
									1898.
								Pursfield, Forest, Columbus, Ind., Hostler, appointed Corp. Nov. 4,
									1898.
								Phillips, Joseph F., Edinburg, Ind., appointed Corp. March 24, 1899.
								Beatty, William J., appointed Corp. March 24, 1899.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Israel, Horace B., Edinburg, Ind., Laborer, appointed Musician Aug. 30,
									1898.
								Clark, Alexander, Columbus, Ind., Student, appointed Musician Aug. 30,
									1898.
							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								King, Edwin, Columbus, Ind., Carpenter.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Bruce, Herbert R., Nortonsburg, Ind., Farmer.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Abell, Samuel, Seymour, Ind., Student.
								Abernathy, Robert, Seymour, Ind., Laborer.
								Adkins, James, Columbus, Ind., Molder.
								Ayers, William A., Seymour, Ind., Engineer.
								Barmes, Frank H., Hope, Ind., Farmer.
								Beabout, David, Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Betterly, Benjamin, Seymour, Ind., Clerk, discharged Sept. 27, 1898.
								Blake, Elbert M., Columbus, Ind., Student.
								Branaman, Henry, Becks, Ind., Farmer.



								

								
									CORPORALS, COMPANY K.
								




								

								Bruce, Mell, Lexington, Ind., Farmer.
								Brumfield, Gurtis, Columbus, Ind., Mechanic.
								Burns, Samuel, Columbus, Ind., Printer.
								Coats, William T., Shelbyville, Ind., Student, transferred to Co. C Jan. 26,
									1899.
								Carr, Harry C., Hartsville, Ind., Student.
								Carter, Allen, Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Collins, Samuel, South Bethany, Ind., Farmer.
								Cook, Joseph L., Columbus, Ind., Mechanic.
								Coy, Lora E., Pikes Peak, Ind., Farmer.
								Craig, Clifford, Seymour, Ind., Laborer.
								Cron, Henry, Indianapolis, Ind., Handlemaker.
								Dill, James R., Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Dillman, Harry, Bedford, Ind., Mechanic.
								Dinkens, Thomas, Liberty, Ind., Laborer, discharged Jan. 30, 1899.
								Dobson, James M., Columbus, Ind., Farmer.
								Downs, Charles M., Edinburg, Ind., Laborer, discharged Feb. 3, 1899.
								Ehlers, George C., Columbus, Ind., Brakeman.
								Fawcett, Oliver, Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Fuller, William, Columbus, Ind., Clerk.
								George, John S., Scipio, Ind., Farmer.
								Grove, Clarence B., Columbus, Ind., Student.
								Haislup, Charles A., Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Hardesty, Sylvanus G., Nebraska, Ind., Stone Cutter.
								Henderson, Edward F., Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Henderson, Walter E., Seymour, Ind., Mechanic.
								Hodler, Charles H., Ogilville, Ind., Cook, discharged Feb. 7, 1899.
								Hodler, Samuel S., Columbus, Ind., Mechanic.
								Huffer, Welden, Newbern, Ind., Student, discharged Jan. 13, 1899.
								Jones, Percy, Hope, Ind., Farmer, transferred to Reg. Band Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Keethler, James, Ogilville, Ind., Laborer, transferred to 3rd Div. Hosp. Corps
									Aug. 20, 1898.



								


								Kerth, Franklin, Cincinnati, Ohio, Mechanic.
								Kellenberger, Bertram S., Columbus, Ind., Clerk.
								Ketner, Robert E., Hartsville, Ind., Laborer.
								Kroencke, Henry F., Columbus, Ind., Carpenter.
								LaForce, David E., Bedford, Ind., Clerk.
								Lambert, Arthur S., Conway, Ky., Farmer.
								Lathrop, Lyman G., Hope, Ind., Student.
								Lockman, Cecil, Bedford, Ind., Laborer.
								Lunsford, Robert A., Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Manuel, Andrew, Christiansburg, Ind., Farmer.
								McCallie, Ralph, Newbern, Ind., Laborer.
								McKee; Melvin, Columbus, Ind., Carpenter.
								Marlin, Temple, Hope, Ind., Farmer.
								Marlin, Nathaniel W., Hope, Ind., Farmer.
								Myers, Jacob, Edinburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Oaks, Robert F., Edinburg, Ind., Mechanic.
								Payne, Charles B., Columbus, Ind., Teamster, discharged Jan. 30, 1899.
								Pickens, John M., Columbus, Ind., Mechanic.
								Potter, Charles, Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Pruitt, Leslie, Edinburg, Ind., Farmer.
								Quick, George W., Columbus, Ind., Carpenter.
								Richey, Alonzo, Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Repp, John F., Columbus, Ind., Moulder.
								Rich, John W. D., Columbus, Ind., Teamster, discharged Feb. 16, 1899.
								Romine, John D., Ogilville, Ind., Farmer.
								Rowell, Fred C., Columbus, Ind., Cabinetmaker, transferred to Hosp. Corps Aug.
									20, 1898.
								Seeger, John F., Columbus, Ind., Farmer.
								Skinner, Elihu M., Brownstown, Ind., Farmer, discharged Feb. 4, 1899.
								Stiner, Harry E., Taylorsville, Ind., Laborer.
								Stuckey, Erastus, South Bethany, Ind., Farmer.
								Schierff, Olif, Chicago, Ill., Clerk, discharged Feb. 15, 1899.
								Thomas, Charles E., Taylorsville, Ind., Farmer.
								Thomas, Martin R., Taylorsville, Ind., Engineer.




								


								Thompson, William H., Columbus, Ind., Barber.
								Turner, Joseph, Modora, Ind., Laborer.
								Twaddell, Forrest, Columbus, Ind., Clerk, discharged Feb. 1, 1899.
								VanArsdal, Evert, Taylorsville, Ind., Farmer.
								Western, William C., Columbus, Ind., Engineer.
								Yerger, John, Bedford, Ind., Barber.
								Young, Hallard G., Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Everson, Charles, Columbus, Ind., Moulder, died Dec. 2, 1898.
								Carr, Victor M., Hartsville, Ind., Cook, transferred from Co. A Jan. 17,
									1899.
								Gifford, George H., Indianapolis, Ind., Clerk, transferred from 159th Ind.,
									deserted March 17, 1899, at Camp Columbia, Cuba.
								Koehne, George H., Evansville, Ind., Machinist, transferred from 159th
									Ind.
								Miller, Isaac J., Clifford, Ind., Laborer, transferred from 159th Ind.
								Swartwood, Sherman B., Columbus, Ind., Farmer, transferred from 159th
									Ind.
								Schaufler, Charles, Evansville, Ind., Potter, transferred from 159th
									Ind.
								Ruby, Edward T., Indianapolis, Ind., Cook, mustered as Cook Dec. 8,
									1898.
								Cole, Bert A., Bloomington, Ind., Civil Engineer, transferred from 159th Ind.
									Vol. Inf.
							
						
					

					

					

						COMPANY M.

						

						
							GEORGE A. WEST.

							Captain George A. West is the oldest man among the officers of the One Hundred and
								Sixty-first Indiana Regiment. He was born at Lawrenceburg, Indiana, February  14, 1844, and received such education as could then
								be obtained in the public schools of his native town. In 1861 he went to New Orleans
								and remained there until the outbreak of the Civil war, when he hastened north,
								coming 
									CAPTAIN GEORGE A. WEST.
								 on the last steamer that came up the Mississippi river, and enlisted at
								once. He served during the entire war, re-enlisting in the Second Indiana Battery at
								the expiration of his first enlistment. During a greater part of his service Captain
								West was engaged as a scout west of the Mississippi river and while  serving in this capacity was wounded five times. He
								was also wounded at the battle of Prairie Grove. Special authority from the war
								department was granted in order that Captain West could be commissioned in the
								Spanish-American war. In re-entering the service he forfeited a pension of fourteen
								dollars per month.
							Captain West has a son, John B. West, who is no less a fighter than himself. John
								B. West was a bugler in the army at Santiago but asked for a gun and went on the
								firing line and was severely wounded, being shot through both legs.
						

						

						

							
								FIRST LIEUTENANT GEORGE W. FITCH.
							





							

							GEORGE W. FITCH.

							First Lieutenant George W. Fitch was born at Lawrenceburg, Indiana, March 24, 1868.
								He was educated in the high school of Lawrenceburg and later was employed in his
								father's bank. Afterwards he held a responsible position with the Adams Express
								Company, and still later he was identified with the Potter, Parlin Company, of New
								York, as assistant secretary and treasurer for a number of years. At the opening of
								the Spanish-American war he was city engineer of Lawrenceburg.
						

						

						
							HANSON G. FREEMAN.

							Second Lieutenant Hanson G. Freeman was born October 30, 1859, at Prattsburg,
								Indiana. He graduated from the Lawrenceburg high school, and later took a two years'
								course at Moore's Hill College. Soon after completing his education he engaged in
								the coal business at Lawrenceburg, in which he continued until the outbreak of the
								war.
							On September 5, 1898, Lieutenant Freeman was detailed as regimental commissary of
								subsistence and remained in that capacity until the muster-out of the organization.
								The father of Lieutenant Freeman served during the entire Civil war.
						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY M.

							Company M was organized early in April, 1898, by George A. West, George W. Fitch
								and Hanson G. Freeman as a battery, as it was expected it would be first to 
								
									COMPANY M.
								
								 see service in our partly unprotected coast cities.
								The company was tendered to the Governor April 8, 1898, but when in a few days the
								situation developed that a battery would have no chance to get into the service, the
								company was quickly changed to a company of infantry.
							Lieutenant Freeman's coal office, at the corner of High and Vine streets, was the
								company headquarters. There the plans were often revised to outwit the opposition of
								many others who were anxious to split the organization that they might have the
								honor of leading the only company that Dearborn county would get to furnish during
								the war. In union there was strength, and Company M stood 1oyally together and all
								opposition either fell by the wayside or extended a helping hand.
							The company tried to get in under the first call, wanting to represent this part of
								the state in lieu of the Aurora company, whose place was vacant in the state guard,
								but failed, as larger counties were given the preference. The company kept up their
								organization, replacing with new men those who dropped out to join other companies
								that had been more successful in being recognized, some going into the regular army.
								A member of the company was found at Indianapolis at every change of events or
								rumor, that no doubt might exist of the company getting in, and on June 15, 1898,
								the Governor rendered a final decision that the company would be accepted. An hour
								later a telegram was posted in Lawrenceburg and the news spread like wildfire. June
								24th, the Governor notified Captain West, sending the examination blanks. June 27th,
								28th and 29th were consumed making physical examinations by Dr. James D. Gatch,
								after which the Governor was notified that the company awaited his orders. The
								company received instructions to leave Saturday, July 2d.
							July 1, 1898, after the company had made their 
								
									NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS, COMPANY M.
								
								 farewell parade over the city, they were presented
								with a handsome flag by the ladies of Lawrenceburg, Mrs. Ezra G. Hayes making the
								presentation in a strong and touching speech, which was responded to by Lieutenant
								Fitch, after which the members of the company went to their homes, some for the last
								time. The departure of the company, on the morning of July 2d, was an event that
								will live in the memory of every citizen as the most touching scene the city had
								witnessed since the dark days of 1861.
							The company arrived at the Indianapolis fair grounds at noon and was quartered in
								cattle barn F. After re-examination, the company was mustered into the United States
								service July 13, 1898, and lettered Company M, after which the history of the
								company was about that of the regiment. September 5th, Lieutenant Freeman was
								detailed as regimental commissary officer, which place he filled until the regiment
								was mustered out.
							October 17, 1898, at Jacksonville, Florida, death parted Private Henry H. Stille
								from his company after a brief sickness with typhoid fever. The remains were sent to
								his home at Sunman, Indiana, for interment. February 17, 1899, in Cuba, the dreaded
								small-pox, after a two weeks' struggle, claimed as its victim Private Andrew Gould,
								and he was interred the same day with military honors in the United States cemetery,
								between Marianao and Playo, in grave No. 26.
							All other events of the company can be looked back upon, no matter how unpleasant
								at the time, as having some pleasure connected with them save the deaths which
								parted two good soldiers from the company.
							The company was detailed as provost guard at the Second Division, Seventh Army
								Corps, Hospital, near Marianao, from February 18, 1899, to March 27, 1899.
							Company M was mustered out at Savannah, Georgia, 
								April 30, 1899, and returned home via Washington, D. C., stopping there two hours
								and marching through the White House. The company arrived home at midnight, May 2,
								and were received with open arms, welcoming them home in a happier way than they had
								bid them Godspeed and success, just ten months before. The reception prepared on the
								arrival of the company was postponed till the evening of May 3d. The company paraded
								the principal streets, escorted by all the uniformed ranks of the city, when they
								marched to Odd Fellows' Hall. Mayor O'Brien made the address of welcome to the
								company and Captain West responded in a few well-chosen words, after which the
								company retired to the banquet hall and partook of a feast such as only the ladies
								of Lawrenceburg know how to prepare. At a late hour the company separated and went
								to their homes to take up the lives of civilians.
						

						

						

							COMPANY M ROSTER.

							
								GEORGE A. WWEST, Captain, Lawrenceburg,
									Ind.
								GEORGE W. FITCH, 1st Lieutenant,
									Lawrenceburg, Ind.
								HANSON G. FREEMAN, 2nd Lieutenant,
									Lawrenceburg, Ind.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Rief, Jacob J., 1st Serg't, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Bookkeeper.
								Evans, Edwin J., Q. M. Serg't, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Fireman, appointed from
									Corp. to Q. M. Serg't Jan. 5, 1899.
								Seekatz, John, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Shoemaker.
								Sparks, Charles D., Moore's Hill, Ind., Machinist.
								Marshall, Edward, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Cooper, appointed from Corp. to Serg't
									Jan. 5, 1899.
								Spencer, Cyrus M., Moore's Hill, Ind., Dentist, discharged.
							







							

							

								CORPORALS.
								Scofield, John J., Milan, Ind., Telegraph Operator, discharged Feb. 30,
									1899.
								Wilson, William, Moore's Hill, Teamster.
								Cissna, Adrian H., Chillicothe, O., Butcher.
								Fleck, George J., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Young, Clarence, Hornersville, N. Y., Butcher, promoted to Corp. Aug. 16,
									1898.
								Laswell, Jesse L., Versailles, Ind., Cook, promoted to Corp. Dec. 20,
									1898.
								Webster, William S., Sunmam, Ind., Liveryman, promoted to Corp. Dec. 20,
									1898.
								Bell, Charles H., Milan, Ind., Carpenter, promoted to Corp. Dec. 20.
									1898.
								Landers, Edward, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Cooper, promoted to Corp. Dec. 20,
									1898.
								Schnetzer, George, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer, promoted to Corp. Jan. 5,
									1899.
								Truitt, Edward A., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Moulder, promoted to Corp. Jan. 5.,
									1899.
								Wingerberg, Henry J., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer, promoted to Corp. Feb. 20,
									1899.
								Winkley, Martin, Guilford, Ind., Railroader, promoted to Corp. Feb. 20,
									1899.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Strauss, John M., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Piano Tuner, discharged Feb. 8,
									1899.
								Kelsey, Charles L., Moore's Hill, Ind., Telegraph Operator.
							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								Fleck, John J., St. Bernard, Ohio, Blacksmith.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								McAdams, William, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Hod Carrier.
							


							


							
								PRIVATES.
								Abdon, James W., Cochran, Ind., Laborer.
								Andrews, Henry, Elizabethtown, Ohio, Farmer.
								Aprill, Frank, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Aylor, George J., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Paper Hanger.
								Barrow, Charles, Rockdale, Ind., Farmer.
								Berry, Clyde C., Milan, Ind., Laborer.
								Billingsley, Nicholas, Aurora, Ind., Laborer.
								Brumblay, Thomas B., Moore's Hill, Ind., Engineer.
								Christian, Henry, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Stone Mason.
								Clark, Ira W., Milan, Ind., Brakeman.
								Clark, John C., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Farmer.
								Clark, James, Hartford, Ind., Farmer.
								Connelley, Bertram, Sunman, Ind., Stenographer.
								Cox, Edward S., Aurora, Ind., Laborer.
								Cooper, William, Aurora, Ind., Laborer, discharged Jan. 26, 1899.
								Daily, Andrew, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Davis, Milton C., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Donner. George, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Downs, Samuel, Lawrenceburg, Stationary Engineer.
								Emchiser, Leroy, Santa Fe, Ind., Lumberman.
								Enke, Charles F., Cincinnati, Ohio, Blacksmith.
								Fahy, Luke, Aurora, Ind., Laborer.
								Frazier, James M., Bright, Ind., Butcher.
								Frost, John, Cohoes, N. Y., Fireman.
								Flush, Henry C., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Cooper.
								Gerkin, Albert C., North Vernon, Ind., Moulder.
								Gould, Andrew, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Sawmaker, died, Havana, Feb. 17,
									1899.
								Gould, George K., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Printer.
								Givan, Paul, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Blacksmith.
								Gray, Harley, Aurora, Ind., Laborer.
								Hauser, Peter, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Tailor.
								Hayes, George M., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Farmer.
								Hayes, Charles, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Farmer




								

								Hitchcock, Edward M., Hope, Ind., Laborer.
								Huntington, Homer, Moore's Hill, Farmer.
								Jeffries, Thomas B., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Moulder.
								Johnson, Albert L., Dillsboro, Ind., Farmer.
								Johnson, Clifford, Moore's Hill, Ind., Farmer.
								Johnson, Hal, Dillsboro, Ind., Bricklayer.
								Jones, Walter D., Moore's Hill, Ind., Photographer.
								Kepper, George C., Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk.
								Ketcham, George P., Chesterville, Ind., Laborer, discharged Feb. 4,
									1899.
								Knagge, John W., Dillsboro, Ind., Farmer.
								Knippenberg, August H., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Farmer.
								Kunkel, John M., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Cigarmaker.
								Lawrence, William R., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Cooper.
								Losey, John F., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Laird, George W., Greensburg, Ind., Stockdealer.
								Marshall, Benjamin, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Mason, Henry, Guilford, Ind., Farmer.
								McCartney, Charles W., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Miller.
								Meyer, Ralph A., Dillsboro, Ind., Farmer.
								Montooth, Charles E., Vevay, Ind., Laborer.
								McElfresh, George R., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Clerk.
								McCartney, Frank, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Clerk.
								Pate, Henry C., St. Louis, Mo., Farmer.
								Purnell, Minter, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Ratekin, Emery J., Richland, Ind., Farmer.
								Reed, Amos B., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Stove Moulder.
								Roemer, Fred C., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Machinist.
								Rolf, Frederick, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Blacksmith.
								Rief, Charles H., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Carriagemaker.
								Schwab, Edward, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Stone Mason.
								Speckman, Frank E., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Stewart, Walter S., Elizabethtown, Ohio, Farmer.
								Stille, Henry H., Sunman, Ind., Telegraph Operator, died, Jacksonville, Oct.
									17, 1898.
								Suit, Calvin, Elizabethtown, Ohio, Farmer.
								Stricker, George W., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Painter.



								

								Spencer, Henry A., Moore's Hill, Ind., Dentist.
								Taylor, Charles J., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Blacksmith.
								Taylor, William A., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Express Agent.
								Taylor, William, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Thompson, Edward, Aurora, Ind., Laborer.
								Temke, William, Spader, Ind., Laborer.
								Tudor, Gidion H., Caleast, Ky., Farmer,
								Ward, Marcus, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Wesler, William J., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Cooper.
								Zimmermann, John G., Cincinnati, Ohio, Baker.
								Siemantel, John J., Lawrenceburg, Ind., Blacksmith.
								Moody, Curtis, Indianapolis, Ind., Railroader.
								Slageter, Karl, transferred from 159th Ind. Vol. Inf. Dec. 1, 1898.
							
						
					

					

					
						COMPANY A.

						

						
							GEORGE M. SILVERTHORNE.

							Captain George M. Silverthorne was born at Chicago, in 1877, and after finishing a
								grammar-school course he entered the Michigan Military Academy, from which
								institution he graduated in 1896. Later he went to Northwestern University and had
								just completed a two years' law course when war was declared against Spain.
							He was commissioned as first lieutenant of Company A, and later was made captain to
								succeed to Captain Olds. During the first part of his service, Captain Silverthorne
								acted as adjutant of the First Battalion.




							

							
								CAPTAIN GEORGE M. SILVERTHORNE.
							
						

						

						
							AUGUST H. W. JOHNSON.

							First Lieutenant August H. W. Johnson was born at Hinsdale, Illinois, January 9,
								1869. He was educated in the public schools of La Grange, Illinois.
							Lieutenant Johnson is a contractor and builder, and from 1892 until 1895 he had
								charge of the construction work of the Grassila Chemical Company, of Cleveland and
								Chicago.


							


							He was promoted from second to first lieutenant to succeed First Lieutenant
								Silverthorne. On October 25, 1898, soon after the arrival of the regiment at
								Savannah, 
									FIRST LIEUTENANT AUGUST H. W. JOHNSON.
								 Georgia, Lieutenant Johnson was taken sick with typhoid fever, and was
								confined in the city hospital at that place for three months.
						

						

						
							FLETCHER M. DURBIN.

							Second Lieutenant Fletcher M. Durbin, son of Colonel Durbin, is the youngest
								officer in the One Hundred and  Sixty-first Indiana
								Regiment. He was born at Anderson, Indiana, April 25, 1880. He attended the schools
								of Anderson, later took a two years' course at the Culver Military Academy, and
								spent two years in the school at Lawrenceville, New Jersey. Last spring he completed
								his examinations 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT FLETCHER M. DURBIN.
								 one month early in order that he might travel. He spent four months
								travelling in Europe. Mr. Durbin was commissioned as second lieutenant of Company A,
								November 30, 1898. He was appointed adjutant of the First Battalion, January 6,
								1899.
						



						

						
							COMPANY A HISTORY.

							The Hammond company, like many other companies of this regiment, was formed at the
								first call for volunteers, and confidently expected to go out then. In this,
								however, they were disappointed, an event which was very depressing upon the spirits
								of the loyal men, who were so anxious to fight for their country, but subsequent
								events have shown that this was the greatest blessing, however, that they could have
								received, for otherwise they would never have belonged to the "old One Hundred and
								Sixty-first."
							It was at this stage of the history of the company that it met with one of its
								discouragements. Disappointed at not being included with those who were first to go
								into the service of the United States, many resigned and some others, dissatisfied,
								didn't even go through this formality but simply dropped out.
							Interest in the company was at a very low ebb, drills and meetings were suspended
								on account of the lack of attendance.
							A reorganization of the company was decided upon, however, by those who were still
								anxious to get into the service and a date set for an election of officers.
								Recruiting offices were opened in Hammond, Whiting, Crown Point and East Chicago,
								and upon the night of the election the recruits numbered one hundred and
								twenty-five. Lee Merritt Olds a graduate of the Michigan Military Academy, and also
								Northwestern University, was elected captain. George M. Silverthorn, a graduate of
								the same institution, was elected first lieutenant and August H. W. Johnson, of East
								Chicago, was elected second lieutenant. The election was none to soon, for their
								orders to hold themselves in readiness and proceed to Indianapolis to join the One
									
								
									COMPANY A.
								
								 Hundred and Sixty-first Regiment Indiana Volunteer
								Infantry, forming there, were received from the Governor the next day.
							The members of the company were duly notified of this fact and were all present
								with what scanty baggage they were to take with them at the appointed time; the
								Morton House in Hammond, which had been vacated, was reopened and occupied by them
								during the interval before leaving for Indianapolis. Transportation arrived on July
								5th over the Monon and also an order to proceed at once to Indianapolis. The company
								were wildly enthusiastic when the orders were read to them, and at once got their
								belongings together preparatory to leaving; among the latter was the mascot,
								"Dewey," a large white sheep presented to the company by Chief James Fallon, of the
								Hammond Packing Company. An early dinner was had and at 12 o'clock they marched to
								the station led by the G. A. R. drum and fife corps, and greeted with cheers on all
								sides by the citizens of Hammond who turned out en mass to see the
								departure of the company which was to represent them in the Spanish-American war.
								Wives and sweethearts, "mostly sweethearts," were at the station to see the company
								off, and the scene there presented is one that will always be fresh in the mind of
								everyone present. Two special cars were attached to the regular train, and at 12:30
									P. M., July 5th, we left for Indianapolis.
								We were joined by the company from Monticello on our way, and arrived at Camp Mount,
								Indianapolis, at about 5 o'clock in the afternoon. Immediately upon our arrival we
								were assigned to one of the vacant sheds in the fair grounds, which, during fair
								time, was occupied by the sheep exhibit. Stoves, dishes and blankets were issued to
								us, and those who enlisted as carpenters were called upon to show their skill in
								converting a sheep shed into a comfortable habitation 
								
									NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS, COMPANY A.
								
								 Thus at last our purpose was accomplished and we
								became a part of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Regiment, Indiana Volunteer
								Infantry.
						

						

						
							COMPANY A ROSTER.

							
								LEE M. OLDS, Captain--Promoted to Major
									Dec. 1, 1898.
								GEORGE M. SILVERTHORNE,
									Captain--Promoted from 1st Lieut. Dec. 9. 1898.
								AUGUST H. W. JOHNSON, 1st
									Lieutenant--Promoted from 2nd Lieut.
								FLETCHER DURBIN, 2nd
									Lieutenant--Appointed Dec. 9, 1898.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Meehan, James E., Franklin Pa., Steam Fitter.
								Murray, Joseph E. D., Rochester N. Y. Reporter.
								Carr, Stephen, Ashley, Ind., Railroad Employe.
								Ripley, Stephen, Hammond, Ind., Clerk.
								Schloen, Frank, Hammond, Ind., Clerk, appointed Serg't Dec. 3, 1898.
								Main, William E., Chicago, Ill., Student, appointed Serg't Jan. 4,
									1899.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Mason, Charles J., Hammond, Ind., Clerk.
								Coates, John S., Chicago, Ill., Machinist.
								Scheer, Robert, Milwaukee, Wis., Carpenter.
								Green, George W., Hammond, Ind., Laborer.
								Crandall, L. D., Chicago, Ill., Steam Fitter.
								Ibsen, Frank, Chicago, Ill., Artist.
								Hansen, Mike, Whiting, Ind., Machinist, appointed Corp. Aug. 27, 1898.
								Eggers, Peter, Saginaw, Mich. Cooper, appointed Corp. Nov. 12, 1898.
								Holzapfel, William, Chicago, Ills., Painter, appointed Corp. Jan. 4,
									1899.



								


								Crandall, Elbert, Chicago, Ills., Clerk, appointed Corp. Jan. 4, 1899.
							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								Cole, James, Waterloo, Ind., Blacksmith.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Frenck, Fred, Hammond, Ind., Liveryman.
							

							
								MUSICIAN.
								Brown, Theodore, Chicago, Ill., Metal Polisher.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Adams, Elmer, East Chicago, Ind., Grocer.
								Anderson, Fred, Chicago, Ill., Bricklayer.
								Boyd, Dayton, La Grange, Ind., Hostler.
								Brock, Joseph, Whiting, Ind., Fireman.
								Baum, Edward, Cincinnati, Ohio, Laborer.
								Ballog, Steve, East Chicago, Ind., Laborer.
								Berry, Fred A., Vincennes, Ind., Clerk.
								Bouchie, Louis, Vincennes, Ind., Laborer.
								Cabice, Thomas, Bridgeport, N. Y., Driver.
								Danielson, Daniel, East Chicago, Ind., Laborer.
								Doran, Mathis, South Chicago, Ill., Laborer.
								Driscoll, Charles J., Vincennes, Ind., Barber.
								Eyerman, Max, San Francisco, Cal., Cook.
								Fortune, Walter, Evansville, Ind., Farmer.
								Faol, Edward, Hammond, Ind., Harnessmaker.
								Finlayson, Daniel W., Hammond, Ind., Steamfitter.
								Fleirman, Fred, Pullman, Ill., care of Soldiers' Home, Painter.
								Fields, Alfred C., Kerney, N. J., Clerk.
								Freel, John H., Whiting, Ind., Clerk.
								Galloway, Joseph, East Chicago, Ind., Clerk.
								Genter, Ernest, Chicago, Ill., Laborer.
								Grohnert, Max, Ada, Mich., Painter.
								Hanson, Louis, Chicago, Ill., Clerk and Nurse.
								Hahlweg, Charles, Hammond, Ind., Law Student.
								Hahlweg, Emil, Hammond, Ind., Gold Essayist.




								

								Holtzkampf, August, Chicago, Ill., Pressman.
								Hays, Frank J.. Chicago, Ill., Teamster.
								Hornack, George, Hammond, Ind., Machinist.
								Howe, Charles, Hope, Ind., Farmer.
								Handy, Algo, Terre Haute, Ind., Expert Bookkeeper.
								Haas, Henry, Terre Haute, Ind., Cook.
								Johnson, John, Brighton Park, Ind., Cook.
								Jones, Patrick, Cleveland, Ohio, Iron Moulder.
								Jones, Elmer, Garrett, Ind., Farmer.
								Kroucell, John, Hammond, Ind., Gunsmith.
								Koai, Frank, East Chicago, Ind., Laborer.
								Keitzer, Peter, Hammond, Ind., Barber.
								Kuchenberg, Fred, Jeance, Wis., Clerk.
								Keller, Fred, Chicago, Ill., Electrician.
								Kitchen, Joseph A., Harvey, Ill., Linguist.
								Koutz, Charles, Beanville, Ind., Clerk.
								Larson, Charles, Kane, Pa., Iron Worker.
								Levy, Abraham, Danerorf, Germany, Rabbi.
								Miller, Chris., Chicago, Ill., Farmer.
								Miller, John, Oxford Furnace, N. J., Steel Worker.
								Miller, Parley, Bloomington, Ind., Student.
								Malic, Albert, Chicago, Ill., Ladies Tailor.
								Mathis, John, East Chicago, Ind., Druggist.
								McConnell, Fred, Clinton, Iowa, Law Student.
								McGrath, Patrick, Hammond, Ind., Chef.
								Nelson, William E., Chicago, Ill., Machinist.
								Nichols, Robert, Oswego, N. Y., Engineer.
								Nattress, Fred, Island Lake, N. D., Comm. Expert.
								Neff, William E., Lowell, Ind., Inventor.
								O'Connor, William, Put-in-Bay, Ohio, Malster.
								Pondak, Joseph, East Chicago, Ind., Coal Dealer.
								Peterson, John, Chicago, Ill., Medical Student.
								Peto, Julis, East Chicago, Ind., Laborer.
								Polgat, Steve. East Chicago, Ind., Iron Roller.
								Poldar, John, East Chicago, Ind., Iron Puddler
								Parks, Albert, Stanley, Ind., Law Student.
								Pope, Chode, Hammond, Ind., R. R. Foreman.





								

								Ryan, Thomas, Hammond, Ind., Iron Worker.
								Rogers, Jessie, St. Louis, Mo., Tailor.
								Sabo, John, East Chicago, Ind., Miner.
								Smith, Taylor, Lima, Pa., Butcher.
								St. John, Louis, Victoria, B. C., Photographer.
								Strabel, Henry, Crown Point, Ind., Cigarmaker.
								Strom, Gus., Chicago, Ill., Silversmith.
								Strecker, Henry, Chicago, Ill., Grocer.
								Trahan, Ben., Valparaiso, Ind., Farmer.
								Vacha, Joseph, Whiting, Ind., Grocer.
								Vermetle, Carl A., Hammond, Ind., Artist.
								Werner, John, Chicago, Ill., Designer.
								Williams, John, Whiting, Ind., Fireman.
								Woodward, Frank, Whiting, Ind., Physician.
							

							
								TRANSFERRED.
								Hay, George C., Whiting, Ind., Telegraph Operator, to Band Aug. 23,
									1898.
								Lunom, Martin, Effingham, Ill., Dealer in Spring Water, to Band Sept. 21,
									1898.
								Carr, Victor, Hartsville, Ind., Clerk, to Co. K Jan. 17, 1899.
								Lucas, Horace, Alexander, Ind., Nurse and Student, to U. S. Hospital Sept. 10,
									1898.
								Kimball, Harry, Chicago, Ill., Nurse, to U. S. Hospital Aug. 20, 1898.
								Byerley, Samuel, Bloomingdale, Ind., Railroader, to U. S. Hospital Sept. 10,
									1898.
								Larson, Andrew C., Chicago, Ill., Polisher, to U. S. Hospital Sept. 10,
									1898.
								Crandall, Eugene, Chicago, Ill., Student, to U. S. Hospital Aug. 20,
									1898.
							

							
								DISCHARGED.
								Proulx, Louis, Hammond, Ind., Clerk, disability at Jacksonville, Fla., Sept.
									29, 1898.
								Wheeler, Burr O., Hammond, Ind., Printer, by order War Department, Feb. 18,
									1899.
								Rhodes, Peter, Athens, Ill., Clerk, by order Sec. of War, Mar. 18,
									1899.



								

								Craick, William, Hammond, Ind., Clerk, by order Sec. of War, March 13,
									1899.
								Bowser, Corp. Emerson L., Valparaiso, Ind., Barber, by order War Department,
									March 13, 1899.
								Butler, Edwin V., Van Wert, Ohio, Brakeman R. R, disability at Havana, Cuba,
									Dec. 22, 1898.
								DeFrees, Fred B., Indianapolis, Ind., Civil Engineer, by order War Department,
									Dec. 1, 1898.
								Larson, Carl A., Chicago, Ill., Painter, by order War Department, Jan. 16,
									1899.
								O'Connor, Thomas, Buffalo, N. Y., Butcher, by order War Department, Dec. 22,
									1898.
								Woods, William, New York, N. Y., Painter, disability at Ft. McPherson, Ga.,
									Jan.'4, 1899.
							

							
								DEATHS.
								Puhlman, Ernest, Pittsburg, Pa., Clerk, broke neck diving off pier into Trout
									Creek, at Jacksonville, Sept. 4, 1899; buried at Pittsburg, Pa.
								Schroeder, Fred, Hammond, Ind., Laborer, at Reg. Hospital, Jacksonville, Fla.,
									Oct. 14, 1898; buried at Hammond, Ind.
							
						
					

					

					
						COMPANY E.

						

						
							JAMES W. FORTUNE.

							Captain James W. Fortune was promoted from the rank of first lieutenant to that he
								now holds, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of Captain L. C. Baird.
								He was born at Lexington, Indiana, February 1, 1864. He attended Indiana University
								and graduated from the literary department in 1889, and from the department  of law in 1894. Since that time he has been engaged
								in the practice of law at Jeffersonville, Indiana.
							For two months previous to his promotion Captain Fortune 
									CAPTAIN JAMES W. FORTUNE.
								 was adjutant of the First Battalion. During a greater part of his service
								he has acted as regimental summary court officer and has officiated as judge
								advocate of several different court martials.
						

						

						
							WILLIAM W. CROOKER.

							First Lieutenant William W. Crooker is an old Indiana National Guard officer,
								having been in the service of  the state for a
								number of years. He was second lieutenant of the command called out to quell the
								rioting during the coal miners' strike in Sullivan county.
							Lieutenant Crooker was born, raised and educated at 
									FIRST LIEUTENANT WILLIAM W. CROOKER.
								 Jeffersonville, Indiana. His business is that of an electrician. His
								great-grandfather served during the Revolutionary war, and his father was a captain
								during the Civil war. During the first two months' service of the One Hundred and
								Sixty-first Indiana Regiment Lieutenant Crooker acted as regimental commissary of
								subsistence. He entered the army as a second lieutenant.
						




						

						
							EDWARD A. McCAULEY.

							Second Lieutenant Edward A. McCauley Jeffersonville, Indiana, August 2, 1873. He
								received his education in the public schools of this place. In 1893 he 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT EDWARD A. McCAULEY.
								 became a member of the Indiana National Guard, and was promoted to the
								rank of sergeant. At the breaking out of the Spanish-American war he was associated
								with his father, John S. McCauley, in the furniture and picture-framing business. On
								the president's second call for volunteers he assisted Captain L. C. Baird in
								raising a company, enlisted  as first sergeant and
								was mustered in at Indianapolis with the company. On the resignation of Captain
								Baird Sergeant McCauley was promoted to second lieutenant and commissioned January
								6, 1899, at Camp Columbia, Havana, Cuba.
						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY E.

							Jeffersonville, in common with all other Indiana towns of any importance, strove
								eagerly for the distinction of furnishing the state with a volunteer company on the
								first call for troops. Although unsuccessful in this she was destined to be one of
								the few Indiana cities whose organization saw service on foreign soil.
							Enrollment for Company E began to be taken early in May at the office of attorney
								(now captain) James W. Fortune in the Spieth block, Jeffersonville. Considerable
								confusion was caused for a time by the presence of a rival organization, which also
								aspired to the honor of being selected by Governor Mount to represent the city in
								the makeup of the new regiment about to be furnished by Indiana. The confusion was
								largely due to the eagerness of a number of the recruits to get into the service. In
								order to make assurance doubly sure these young patriots had themselves enrolled
								with both companies. Another factor which contributed to the parlous state of
								affairs was the uncertainty as to whether or not the governor would allot a company
								to Jeffersonville. Many of the recruits--in fact the cream of those enrolled--sought
								relief from this state of uncertainty by enlisting in the regular service.
							"All things come to him who waits," and the patience of Company E's promoters was
								finally rewarded by the welcome intelligence that the organization was one of the
								lucky twelve selected by the governor. This fact 
								
									COMPANY E.
								
								 being definitely assured, a mass meeting was held
								at the city hall on the evening of June 24, for the purpose of selecting the company
								officers and to enroll such additional recruits as might be necessary. The meeting
								was presided over by Colonel James Keigwin, of Louisville, Kentucky.
							The officers were chosen with especial regard to their fitness, and at no time
								during their term of service did the members of the company, as a whole, have
								occasion to regret their choice. Lewis C. Baird was elected captain, James W.
								Fortune, first lieutenant, and W. W. Crooker, second lieutenant. Captain Baird and
								Lieutenant Crooker were both members of the State Guard previous to the disbanding
								of famous Company G, First Indiana National Guard. Captain Baird also brought to his
								duties the high military efficiency obtained during a course, at the United Naval
								Academy at Ananapolis. Lieutenant Fortune had no previous training in military
								matters, but his record as first lieutenant and later as captain of the company
								proved him a born soldier and justified the confidence shown by the company in his
								selection.
							Physical examinations of recruits were conducted daily at Jeffersonville and also
								at Scottsburg, Charlestown and Sellersburg, the last named three adjoining towns
								furnishing a number of recruits. These preliminary examinations were conducted by
								Dr. L. L. Williams, of Jeffersonville, and it is noteworthy that Company E had a
								smaller percentage of rejections, during the final tests at Indianapolis, than any
								company in the regiment.
							On July 1, Company E went into camp at Indianapolis with one hundred and nine men.
								Although the examinations reduced this number slightly below the required maximum
								quota the gaps were speedily filled up. After the usual period of squad-drills,
								suspense and commiseration 
								
									SERGEANTS, COMPANY E.
								
								 for the unfortunate candidates the company was
								mustered into the service on July 12.
							From this time on the history of the company is, with a few variations, the history
								of the regiment. When the fall of Santiago and the signing of the protocol occurred
								it had the dumps with its fellows. When the regiment was ordered to Jacksonville,
								Company E yelled with the loudest, for Cuba was drawing nearer. It had its share
								(perhaps more than its share) of the insidious Jacksonville malaria. When the
								regiment pitched camp at Savannah, Company E, for the first and only time in its
								history, was separated from the mother organization.
							On November 9, the company was detached and sent to take charge of the Savannah
								Military Rifle Range, during its use for the largest practice of the Seventh Army
								Corps. The skill and good work of the company in manipulating the targets and
								conducting the corps target practice won unsparing commendation from the corps
								officers. The company remained at the range for a period of seventeen days and,
								while there, ate a Thanksgiving dinner, the menu of which would astonish the
								bean-fed veterans of the Civil war.
							When Cuba was reached all settled contentedly down into the daily routine and began
								to look for mustering out orders. January 6 marked another epoch in the company's
								history. On this date notice was given of the acceptance of Captain Baird's
								resignation, previously tendered on account of business affairs at home which
								demanded his personal attention. He was succeeded in command by First Lieutenant
								Fortune. Second Lieutenant Crooker was thus advanced to second in command and First
								Sergeant Edward A. McCauley received the shoulder straps he so well deserved. The
								illness of Lieutenant Crooker was the only incident which marred the otherwise
								enjoyable } 
									CORPORALS, COMPANY E.
								
								 stay in Cuba. The boys were sorry to leave him
								behind, even for the short time which elapsed between the regiment's departure and
								his return on the hospital ship. Arrived safely at home once more, the members of
								Company E can speak with justified pride of the showing they have made.
							Not wholly unscathed did they come forth. By the death of Private Robert Angleton,
								Company E was deprived of one of her best and bravest. He died October 11, of
								typhoid fever, at his home in Jeffersonville while absent on sick furlough.
							Company E was mustered out of the service with ninety-five men on the muster rolls.
								Eight were discharged, six were transferred and one died. As an offset to this five
								new men were either recruited or transferred to the company during its term of
								service.
							Like many others, Company E had a company flag. On the night previous to the
								departure of the company for Camp Mount it was presented with a fine silk flag by
								the citizens of Jeffersonville. The presentation was made by Mayor Whitesides, who
								made a speech befitting the occasion. The flag remained with the company until
								Jacksonville was reached, from which place it was returned to its home, where it yet
								remains--a treasured reminder to the citizens of Clark county of the day when their
								boys strode away to do their country's bidding.
						

						

						
							COMPANY E ROSTER.

							
								L. C. BAIRD, Captain--Jeffersonville, Ind., Draftsman,
									resigned Jan. 5, 1899.
								JAMES W. FORTUNE,
									Captain--Jeffersonville, Ind., Attorney, promoted from First Lieutenant Jan, 5,
									1899.





								

								W. W. CROOKER, First Lieutenant--Jeffersonville, Ind.,
									Electrician, promoted from Second Lieutenant Jan. 5, 1899.
								E. A. MCCAULEY, Second
									Lieutenant--Jeffersonville, Ind., Merchant, promoted from First Sergeant Jan. 5,
									1899.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Van Liew John R., 1st Sergt., Jeffersonville, Ind., Clerk.
								Timmonds, John W., Q. M. Sergeant, Jeffersonville, Ind., Engineer.
								Meiboom, J. Henry, Jeffersonville, Ind., Packer.
								Ferguson, Ross J., Jeffersonville, Ind., Clerk.
								Stricker, Henry F., Charlestown, Ind., Farmer.
								Samuels, Conway C., Jeffersonville, Ind., Clerk.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Biddle, Cal., Indianapolis, Ind., Farmer.
								Biedenbach, John, Jeffersonville, Ind., Carpenter.
								Bonnell, John H., Jeffersonville, Ind., Farmer.
								Flora, Francis G., New Albany, Ind., Puddler.
								Hyatt, Walter E., Sellersburg, Ind., Draftsman.
								Keifer, Thomas F., New Albany, Ind., Painter.
								Laidley, Willis J., Jeffersonville, Ind., Machinist.
								LeClare, James N., Jeffersonville, Ind., Clerk.
								Lee, John, Indianapolis, Ind., Brass Finisher.
								Peckinpaugh, Thomas L., Jeffersonville, Ind., Farmer.
								Pickering, John C., Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Raines, Walter P., Utica, Ind., Brass Worker.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								White, Edwin, Northfield, Vt., Salesman, discharged Feb. 12, 1899.
								Dumenil, Ellsworth, Indianapolis, Ind., Musician, transferred to Regt. Band
									Aug. 26, 1898.
								Jones, Percy, Columbus, Ind., Farmer, transferred from Regt. Band.
							



							


							
								ARTIFICER.
								McClure, Julian C., Scottsburgh, Farmer.
							


							
								WAGONER.
								Kelly, Marion, Jeffersonville, Ind., Fireman.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Angleton, Robert, Jeffersonville, Ind., Blacksmith, died Oct. 11, 1898.
								Applegate, Charles L., Woodsbury, Ind., Farmer.
								Barnard, Charles O., Farmer.
								Belknapp, William E., Jeffersonville, Ind., Laborer.
								Bottorff, Harvey J., Sellersburgh, Ind., Farmer.
								Bridgewater, Daniel, Scottsburgh, Ind., Painter.
								Buckley, Benjamin C., Jeffersonville, Ind., Painter.
								Carr, Charles F., Jeffersonville, Ind., Laborer.
								Carr, Warren, Charlestown, Ind., Farmer.
								Clemmons, Jesse, Jeffersonville, Ind., Stave Cutter.
								Clemmons, Walter H., Jeffersonville, Ind., Farmer.
								Davis, Charles S., Scottsburgh, Laborer.
								Delanty, John, Jeffersonville, Ind., Moulder.
								Dobson, Andrew, Jeffersonville, Ind., Laborer.
								Dorsey, Walter A., Jeffersonville, Ind., Engineer, discharged Jan. 28,
									1899.
								Doane, Charles R., Washington, Ind., Laborer, transferred from 159th Ind.
									Vol.
								Dunham, Jesse, Indianapolis, Ind., Farmer, transferred to Hospital Corps Aug.
									20, 1898.
								Edwards, Stephen, Sellersburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Ellerman, William H., Louisville, Ky., Railroader.
								Ervin, Howard L., Scottsburgh, Ind., Railroader.
								Gilbert, William B., Jeffersonville, Ind., Clerk.
								Griffiths, James C., Jeffersonville, Ind., Teamster.
								Griffith, John A., Charleston, Ind., Horse Trainer, transferred to Hospital
									Corps, Sept. 15, 1898.
								Harrell, A. Thomas, Scottsburg, Cooper.
								Harris, James, Indianapolis, Ind., Painter.



								


								Herberick, Jacob, Jeffersonville, Ind., Plumber.
								Herman, John, Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Harbin, Robert L., Charlestown, Ind., Farmer.
								Hartley, Clarence, Jeffersonville, Ind., Farmer, discharged Feb. 18,
									1898.
								Howard, Frank L., Charlestown, Ind., Tinner.
								Houghland, Rosco, Scottsburgh, Ind., Painter.
								Jackson, Schuyler C., New Albany, Ind., Glass Worker.
								Jacobs, James N., Jeffersonville, Ind., Painter.
								Javens, Jackson E., Jeffersonville, Ind., Laborer.
								Jones, David, Jeffersonville, Ind., Iron Worker.
								Kelly, John E., Louisville, Ky., Bar Keeper.
								Kelly, Albert E., Putnam, Putnam Co., Ind., Attorney, transferred from 159th
									Ind. Vol.
								Kennedy, Hugh, Jeffersonville, Ind., Laborer.
								Klosterman, Otto, Louisville, Ky., Farmer.
								Knowland, William A., Charlestown, Ind., Cooper.
								Koons, Walter I., Charlestown, Ind., Laborer.
								Koons, Charles, Charlestown, Ind., Laborer.
								Lewis, Horace I., Jeffersonville, Ind., Fireman, discharged Feb. 16,
									1899.
								Mayberry, Charles, Charlestown, Ind., Farmer.
								Meadows, John R., Carrolton, Ky., Cook.
								Meyer, John .F., Jeffersonville, Ind., Farmer.
								Meyer, John H., Jeffersonville, Ind., Farmer.
								Miller, John I., Indianapolis, Ind., Painter.
								Mitchell, Herbert, Jeffersonville, Ind., Laborer.
								Mitchell, Berkie, Scottsburgh, Ind., Teamster.
								McCafferty, William, Washington, Ind., Printer, transferred from 159th Ind.
									Vol.
								Nelson, Fred., Detroit, Mich., Sailor.
								O'Brien, Frank, New Albany, Ind., Glass Worker.
								Ogden, Homer O., Jeffersonville, Ind., Railroader.
								Oliver, James, Utica, Ind., Farmer.
								Pearson, Theodore B., Jeffersonville, Ind., Student.
								Perry, Archie C., Scottsburgh, Ind., Farmer.
								Perry, Homer, Jeffersonville, Ind., Student.



								


								Phillips, Orville G., Scottsburgh, Ind., Farmer, discharged Feb. 9,
									1899.
								Powers, Eugene, Jeffersonville, Ind., Clerk.
								Powers, Claude B., Jeffersonville, Ind., Musician.
								Rhodes, Fred P., Atlanta, Ind., Farmer, discharged Feb. 13, 1899.
								Ryan, John E., New Albany, Ind., Laborer.
								Rector, John A., Indianapolis, Ind., Varnisher.
								Rogers, Charles T., Charlestown, Ind., Reporter.
								Sauer, Elmer C., Jeffersonville, Ind., Machinist.
								Stepp, Jesse, Sellersburgh, Ind., Laborer.
								Smith, George, Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Simms, Willis B., Utica, Ind., Farmer.
								Taylor, George S., Jeffersonville, Ind., Railroader.
								Tatum, William, Utica, Ind., Laborer.
								Thomas, Wilmer H., Indianapolis, Ind., Moulder.
								Tobin, James, Anderson, Ind., Laborer.
								Tobin, Matthew, Anderson, Ind., Railroader, discharged Jan. 7, 1899.
								Tomlin, Lafe W., Jeffersonville, Ind., Steamboatman.
								Twomey, George W., Jeffersonville, Ind., Medical Student.
								Thompson, James W., Indianapolis, Ind., Farmer.
								Thompson, William M., Scottsburgh, Ind., Barber.
								Tharp, Elmer, Jeffersonville, Ind., Carpenter, transferred to Signal Corps
									Dec. 10, 1898.
								Vance, Arthur R., New Albany, Ind., Salesman.
								Weaver, Howard, Jeffersonville, Ind., Blacksmith.
								Webb, Frank F., Indianapolis, Ind., Paper Hanger.
								Wright, Charles M., Jeffersonville, Ind., Railroader.
								Wurlel, William, Jeffersonville, Ind., Plumber.
								Worrell, Luther M., Jeffersonville, Ind., Electrician, transferred to Signal
									Corps Dec. 10, 1899.
								Whittsett, Lemmel E., Duputy, Ind., Farmer, transferred to Signal Corp Dec.
									10, 1899.
								Youmans, Edward H., Jeffersonville, Ind., Laborer.
							
						
					
				



				


				


				
					SECOND BATTALION
						B, I, F, D.

					
					
						MAJOR HAROLD C. MEGREW.
					

					


					
						HAROLD C. MEGREW.

						Major Harold C. Megrew prepared himself for the position he held in the regiment by
							his early choice of educational training and by his acquired experience in military
							affairs before he entered the service with the rank of major and appointment to the
							command of the Second Battalion. He was born in Indianapolis March 16, 1859, and after
							preparatory training was educated at the Howard Military Institute, in Maryland. He
							was a member of Company D, in the Washington (District of Columbia) Light Infantry,
							National Guard. He was a member of the National Guard in Ohio, serving by special
							appointment on the staff of Governors Foraker and Bushnell. He has been in the service
							of the government, filling positions of responsibility at home and in Europe. He was
							captain in the Ben Harrison Camp of the Sons of Veterans, and at the time of the
							president's call for troops was inspector-general of Indiana, and chief of staff of
							Governor Mount, with the rank of colonel. It was no small sacrifice of family and
							business interests that Major Megrew made on entering the volunteer service; but, with
							the hope of being actively engaged at the front, he accepted his commission and became
							major of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana. He is a member of the Indiana
							commandery of the Loyal Legion, and one of its board of officers.
						While at Camp Cuba Libre, Major Megrew was president of the general court martial of
							the Third Division, and was summary court officer from the regiment's organization
							until, by direction of the major-surgeon, he left for a thirty-days' leave of absence,
							January 16, 1899. He returned to the States, and, after a twenty days' extension, came
							back Monday, March 13. He was in every way an army official. He delighted in his work,
							was straightforward  and impartial among his men. He
							returned to his professional duties at Indianapolis when mustered out.
					

					

					
						COMPANY B.

						

						
							WINSTON MENZIES.

							Captain Winston Menzies is among the youngest of the captains of the regiment. He
								was born at Mt. Vernon, Indiana, November 22, 1875. His grandfather was a 
									CAPTAIN WINSTON MENZIES.
								
								 major-general in the Civil war and his father, G.
								V. Menzies, is a retired naval officer who held the rank of lieutenant-commander
								while in the service. After the usual preparatory training, which Captain Menzies
								received at Cornwall-on-the-Hudson, he entered the State University of Indiana in
								1892, in which institution his collegiate education was finished in 1896. He took an
								active interest in athletics and was a member of various athletic teams of his
								college. He engaged for a short time in the cotton business in Texas and returned to
								his native state in time to enlist for the war with Spain. When it became evident
								that the company organized in Mt. Vernon would not be accepted in the first call,
								Mr. Menzies enlisted as a private in Company H, One Hundred and Fifty-ninth Indiana,
								but upon the second call being issued obtained his discharge and came home to go out
								with the company of his choice as captain. During the sickness and absence of Major
								Megrew, Captain Menzies was in command of the Second Battalion.
						

						

						
							ASA ELLWOOD WILLIAMS.

							First Lieutenant Asa Ellwood Williams received his education at Purdue University
								and the State University of Indiana, in the former of which institution he was
								second lieutenant of Company A of the cadets. At the State University Mr. Williams
								made a specialty of the study of law and was admitted to the bar of Posey county
								shortly after graduation, where he practiced prior to his enlistment, and where he
								held the position of deputy prosecuting attorney. While in college he was a member
								of the college football team and manager of the baseball nine. On the 13th of June
								Lieutenant Williams was married to Miss 
								
									FIRST LIEUTENANT ASA ELLWOOD WILLIAMS.
								 Ethel Hinch; they were married under the beautiful silken flag of the
								company at 10 o'clock in the morning, and together came to Camp Mount, where Mr.
								Williams was mustered in as first lieutenant on the 11th of July.
						

						

						
							PERCY WELCH.

							Second Lieutenant Percy Welch was born at Shawneetown, Illinois, July 30, 1869. He
								received his early education in the common schools of southern Indiana, after which
								he took a course in Ewing College, Illinois. He 
								taught school in Indiana for a period of eight years and was admitted to the Posey
								county bar in 1897. Mr. Welch was a member of the Indiana National Guard for three
								years, holding the position of first sergeant. He was married in 1894 to Miss
								Marguerite Jones, of New Harmony, 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT PERCY WELCH.
								 Indiana. In June he was elected to the second lieutenancy of Company B,
								and shared the fortunes of the company until detailed, January 10, for provost duty
								with the Tenth United States Infantry in Havana and Matanzas. He was relieved from
								this latter duty in time to join his regiment for muster out at Savannah. Mr. Welch
								will  renew his legal studies in Indiana University
								and expects to engage in the practice of law in the county from which he came.
						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY B.

							During the month of April, while the dogs of war were growling and the motto
								"Remember the Maine" was uppermost in all men's minds, an attempt was made to
								organize a military company at Mt. Vernon. The first attempt was a failure as there
								was no possibility of acceptance on the first call. Winston Menzies, who was to have
								been captain of the company, fearing there would be no second call, enlisted as a
								private in Company H, One Hundred and Fifty-ninth Indiana. A. E. Williams and Percy
								Welch, two enthusiastic embryo warriors, held the organization awaiting the
								hoped-for second call. May 25 President McKinley issued his second call for
								volunteers, and Posey county responded nobly to the call. A recruiting office was
								opened in Asa E. Williams' law office and the new recruits were sent into camp at
								the base ball park at the fair grounds. Our first camp was named in honor of
								Governor Hovey. It consisted of three tents and the base ball amphitheater. The
								commissary department was presided over by Frank Jones, and it was a constant
								struggle to keep "the wolf from the door."
							But the patriotic Women's Relief Corps and the charitable citizens of Mt. Vernon
								rallied to our support and a famine was happily averted in Camp Hovey. The city
								council of Mt. Vernon generously voted us a subsidy and we received a great bonanza
								from the proceeds of an ice cream festival held in the court house, by the Women's
								Relief Corps, for our benefit. In the last days of June the examinations of the
								recruits was held by Drs. Welch and 
								
									COMPANY B.
								
								
								Hardwick at the Masonic hall. The
								examination was very thorough and many would-be warriors were disappointed by being
								rejected. Winston Menzies in the meantime had secured his discharge from the One
								Hundred and Fifty- ninth to come home as captain of the Mt.Vernon company. At the
								election of officers, Winston Menzies was chosen captain; Asa Williams, first
								lieutenant, and Percy Welch, second lieutenant. Drills were held daily at the fair
								grounds and nightly in the court house yard. The evening of June 29, while drilling
								in the court yard, we received a dispatch calling our 'company to Indianapolis. The
								glad news was received by the company with great rejoicing. At noon the next day,
								while in company front awaiting the captain's order to leave Camp Hovey, the company
								sus- tained the only defeat in its history, being suddenly charged upon by a blind
								cow, which caused an instantaneous stam- pede in our ranks. Captain Menzies, after
								rallying the company, marched us to the court house, where we were presented with a
								beautiful silken flag by Mrs. Charles Brenkman, on behalf of the Women's Relief
								Corps. Im- mediately after the flag presentation we marched to the Evansville &
								Terre Haute depot and departed for Indian- apolis. Company B's first complement of
								arms was fur- nished by John Moeller, the patriotic cooper of Posey's capital; each
								man was armed with a mammoth Posey county hoop-pole and the company did valiant
								service with these arms on the guard line at Camp Mount. On the morning of July I,
								Indianapolis was reached and we were quartered in barn ''"B." Company B has reason
								to be proud of its merited reputation in the regiment; always ready and cheerfully
								willing to perform its duty, always able to have out the largest number of men for
								drills or reviews; health record second to none, not a death while in the
								service.



							

							
								NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS, COMPANY B.
							
						

						

						
							COMPANY B ROSTER.

							
								WINSTON MINZIES, Captain--Mt. Vernon,
									Ind.
								ASA E. WILLIAMS, First Lieutenant--Mt.
									Vernon, Ind.
								PERCY WELCH, Second Lieutenant--Mt.
									Vernon, Ind.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Lowenhaupt, Mike, 1st Serg't, Mt. Vernon. Ind., Merchant.
								Jones, Frank, Q. M. Serg't, Springfield, Ind., Farmer.
								Works, Edward, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Butcher.
								Stephens, Harold, New Harmony, Ind., Student, discharged Feb. 1, 1899.
								Fuhrer, William B., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Billposter.
								Schultz, Oscar T., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Student, Serg't Maj. 2d Battalion.
								Hovey, Randolph J., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Student, promoted Serg't from Corp. Feb.
									16, 1899.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Bennett, Charles A., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer, discharged Jan. 31,
									1899.
								Nash, Flairance W., Poseyville, Ind., Tinner.
								Miller, Charles H., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Moulder.
								Kreutzinger, James H., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Moore, Noble, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Clerk.
								Tingle, George R., Princeton, Ind., Machinist.
								Welsh, Michael, Richmond, Ind., Laborer, promoted to Corp. July 27,
									1898.
								Switzer, Harry T., Princeton, Ind., Machinist, promoted to Corp. Oct. 18,
									1898.
								Harris, John M., Princeton, Ind., Butcher.
								Green, George, Jr., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Clerk, promoted to Corp. Dec. 1,
									1898.
								Stewart, William, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Pilot, promoted to Corp. Feb. 9,
									1899.



								

								Utey, James K., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Horse-shoer, promoted to Corp. Feb. 21,
									1899.
								Bays, Harold C., Sullivan, Ind., Electrician, promoted to Corp. Feb, 21,
									1899.
							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								King, Samuel W., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Blacksmith.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Kahn, Samuel, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Insurance Agent.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Lord, Harry M., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Musician, transferred, to Regimental Band
									Aug. 28, 1898.
								Lance, Edward, New Harmony, Ind., Florist, transferred to Regimental Band Aug.
									28, 1898.
								Wehr, Otto, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Machinist.
								Cravens, George W., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Printer.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Allen, James K., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Brickmason.
								Alsop, Linwood Z., New Harmony, Ind., Plumber, discharged Feb. 4, 1899.
								Bayer, George, Ft. Branch, Ind., Farmer.
								Berlin, Charles T., New Harmony, Ind., Barber.
								Bieker, Frank, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer, discharged Feb. 2, 1899.
								Boren, Ralph T., New Harmony, Ind., Clerk.
								Brokaw, Arthur, Ft. Branch, Ind., Farmer.
								Bruce, George M., Ft. Branch, Ind., Barber, discharged Mar 15, 1899.
								Cantrell, James, West End, Ill., Farmer.
								Casey, Benjamin F., Owensville, Ind., Farmer.
								Cawthone, Arthur, New Harmony, Ind., Clerk, discharged Feb. 7, 1899.
								Cooper, Levi, Ft. Branch, Ind., Farmer.
								Cox, Charles F., Princeton, Ind., Laborer.



								

								Cox, George, Carmi, Ill., Farmer.
								Crilley, James, Ft. Branch, Ind., Farmer.
								Cunningham, Isaac N., Hazelton, Ind., Farmer, discharged Sept. 27,
									1898.
								Drear, Thomas, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Carpenter.
								Easmon, Jacob, Carmi, Ill., Laborer.
								Frohman, Peter, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Grabert, Gustave W., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Miller.
								Hanks, Charlie, Princeton, Ind., Laborer.
								Harding, George F., Golden Gate, Ill., Farmer.
								Hayes, William S., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Hill, Richard, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Holleman, Porter G., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Machinist.
								Edwards, Calie, Scalesville, Ind., Farmer.
								Estes, Samuel, New Harmony, Ind., Brickmason.
								Houchin, Otta D., Pikeville, Ind., Farmer.
								Jones, Lemuel P., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Grocerman.
								Kaedel, Andrew, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Kennedy,John, Dekoven, Ky., Coalminer.
								Koerner, Ferdinand, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Teacher.
								Kuykendall, Noah, Bufkin, Ind., Farmer.
								Lance, James, New Harmony, Ind., Farmer, discharged Jan. 25, 1899.
								Lance, John, New Harmony, Ind., Farmer.
								LeGrange, Oscar W., West Franklin, Ind., Carpenter.
								Maus, Charles G., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Males, John W., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Moulder.
								Marshall, David R., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Machinist.
								McAtee, George, Oatsville, Ind., Farmer, discharged, Jan. 27, 1899.
								Meadows, Floyd, Princeton, Ind., Farner, discharged Mar. 2, 1899.
								Miller, Charles A., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Murphy, George A., Fitzgerald, Ga., Farmer.
								Murphy Orval, Fitzgerald, Ga., Farmer.
								Newell, Frank, Joplin, Mo., Farmer.
								Nicholson, Arthur, Springerton, Ill., Farmer.



								

								Nuthmann, Charles, Princeton, Ind., Railroad Caller.
								Ott, Floyd, Princeton, Ind., Boilermaker.
								Parke, James, Spurgeon, Ind., Farmer.
								Parmer, Marion, Emma, Ill., Farmer.
								Pearson, John F., Hazleton, Ind., Farmer.
								Pfeifer, August, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Tailor.
								Phifer, George B., Booneville, Ind., Engineer, dishonorably discharged Feb.
									25, 1899.
								Pirnat, Albert, Evansville, Ind., Druggist.
								Powers, William M., Madisonville, Ky., Farmer.
								Reavis, Fred G., Princeton, Ind., Stone Cutter.
								Redenour, Frank, New Harmony, Ind., Hostler.
								Reed, Robert R., Booneville, Ind., Shoemaker.
								Rose, Henry, Owensville, Ind., Laborer.
								Schaefer, August E., Mt. Vernon, Ind., Harnessmaker.
								Singleton, Perry F., Pikeville, Ind., Farmer.
								Sluder, Lafayette, Henderson, Ky., Farmer.
								Smith, Jay J., Hazleton, Ind., Farmer.
								Smith, Henry, Owensville, Ind., Lather.
								Switzer, Lyman, Princeton, Ind., Carpenter.
								Spencer, Samuel, Owensville, Ind., Farmer.
								Summers, John, Evansville, Ind., Butcher.
								Trapp, William, Carmi, Ill., Poultry Dresser.
								Turner, Burl E., Owensville, Ind., Laborer, transferred to Hospital Corps Aug.
									28, 1898.
								Vint, Everett, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Wallace, Peter, Booneville, Ind., Farmer.
								Walter, Edward, Mt. Vernon, Cook, transferred to Hospital Corps Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Ward, Clarence E., New Harmony, Ind., Farmer.
								Weissinger, Jesse, Mt. Vernon, Ind., Carpenter.
								Westfall, Thomas A., Hazleton, Ind., Farmer.
								Williams, Harry, Mt. Vernon, Ind:, Farmer.
								Woerner, William, Evansville, Ind., Molder.
								Yeager, Harvey, Owensville, Ind., Farmer.
								Baldwin, Walter, Mt.Vernon, Ind., Carpenter, enlisted Aug. 5, 1898.



								

								Corkin, William L., Indianapolis, Ind., Barber, enlisted Dec. 9, 1898.
								Hoge, Smith, Delphi, Ind., Student, enlisted Aug. 10, 1898.
								Norton, Nelson, Sullivan, Ind., Farmer, transferred from 159th Ind. Inf., Nov.
									19, 1898.
								Stalnaker, Morton, Terre Haute, Ind., Laborer, enlisted Dec. 10, 1898.
							
						
					

					

					
						COMPANY I.

						

						
							WILLIAM GUTHRIE.

							Captain William Guthrie was one of the ablest men in the regiment; he is a lawyer
								by profession, and although he came into the service without any previous military
								training, he made out of his raw recruits a company of most excellent regimental
								standing. Captain Guthrie is a native of Ohio, being born in Hamilton in the year
								1852. When a child his parents moved to Indiana, settling in the county of White. It
								was in the common schools of this county the young man began his early educational
								training; entering the high school of Monticello, the county seat, he studied in
								that institution until a few years later he went to Logansport and finished his
								course in the Academy of that place. For eleven years after graduation he was a
								teacher in the schools of his county and in 1880 was elected to the position of
								county superintendent of public instruction, when he was but twenty-eight years of
								age, which position he filled until the year 1884. While teaching he used his spare
								time in the study of law and was admitted to the bar of his adopted county in 1880,
								where he has since been practicing his profession in the law firm of Guthrie &
								Bushnell. He was a man of exemplary habits and took unusual interest in the morale
								of his company.



							


							
								CAPTAIN WILLIAM GUTHRIE.
							
						

						

						
							ANTHONY A. ANHEIRE.

							First Lieutenant Anthony A. Anheire was born in the city Logansport, June 29, 1867,
								and received his early education in the German Catholic schools of that place, after
								which he entered Hall's Business College, also situated in Logansport. After
								completing his education he accepted a position with the Pittsburg, Cincinnati &
								St. Louis railroad, which position he retained for eight years. In 1886 Mr. Anheire
								moved to Monticello, where for several  years he
								engaged successfully in the cigarmaking business and where he served for two years
								as city marshal, which position he occupied when he enlisted as first lieutenant of
								the company that came out from that place. 
									FIRST LIEUTENANT ANTHONY A. ANHEIRE.
								 Lieutenant A'nheire was the first officer of the regiment to place his
								foot upon Cuban soil, being of a detail that preceded the regiment on the Roumania,
								that carried the greater portion of the regimental livestock. Mr. Anheire was on
								detached service while in Cuba with the Tenth Infantry at Havana and Mantanzas,
								leaving the regiment on December 10, and returning a few days before its departure
								for America.
						



						

						
							JOHN R. WARD.

							Second Lieutenant John R. Ward was born in White county, Indiana, on the first day
								of April, 1872. He was educated in the city schools of Monticello, after which he
								spent one year in the State Normal schools of Valparaiso, 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT JOHN R. WARD.
								 and then entered the State University at Bloomington in 1893, where he
								graduated in the school of law in 1893; in, the same year he was admitted to the bar
								and was appointed to the position of deputy prosecuting attorney in his native city,
								Monticello, in which place he was engaged in the 
								practice of his profession when he enlisted and came out as second lieutenant of
								Company I.
						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY I.

							
								
									"The Volunteers! the Volunteers!
									God send us peace, through all our years;
									But if the cloud of war appears
									We'll see them once again."
								
								WILLIAM HAINES LYTLE.
							

							Yesterday shapes and colors to-day and history repeats itself. The example set by
								the fathers in 186I was imitated by the sons in 1898. As soon as it was learned that
								war with Spain was imminent an enthusiastic public meeting, called by Tippecanoe
								Post, G. A. R., was held in the Court House at Monticello, April 21st, 1898, and
								after patriotic addresses and songs resolutions were read and adopted which
								concluded as follows:
							
								"Being actuated by that patriotic spirit that has sustained our flag on land and
									sea and carried it to final victory on all occasions of the past, we hereby
									declare our full confidence in our National and State authorities. And we most
									respectfully represent to the Governor of the State of Indiana that we are now
									ready to perform in behalf of our Government and State such services in the
									present conflict with Spain as may be in our power and in his judgment required by
									the occasion."
							
							A company was at once organized and the Governor of the State was notified that it
								was ready to be mustered into service at a moment's warning. This was before troops
								were called for, but the Governor assured Captain Guthrie and Lieutenants Anhier and
								Ward that the company would surely be needed, and said for them to drill it 
								
									COMPANY I.
								
								 and put it into condition for service, and on June
								30th, 1898, he sent the following message:
							
								"CAPTAIN WM. GUTHRIE:
									Your company will report at Indianapolis on next Monday, coming via "Monon." You
									will await further instructions from A. F. Houghton, Master of Transportation.
										JAMES A. MOUNT, Gov."
							
							Upon receipt of this message the Captain wrote the Governor asking that the company
								be allowed to remain in camp at the Fair Grounds west of Monticello until Tuesday,
								July 5th, in order that the men might spend Sunday at home and celebrate "The
								Fourth" at Monticello. This request was granted and while some of the men spent
								Saturday and Sunday at home the parents of others visited them in camp. Monday, the
								Fourth, was spent at Monticello in celebrating and making final arrangements for
								departure. The ladies of the town served dinner to the company in the Court
								House.
							Tuesday came and with it came friends from far and near to say good-bye and see the
								company take its departure. The G. A. R. and different civic organizations of the
								town turned out and escorted the company to the train and at 2:34 P. M., amid the boom of cannon, the waving of flags and
								handkerchiefs and tears of friends, the Company boarded the train for Indianapolis
								where on July 13th, 1898, it was mustered in as Company I, One Hundred and
								Sixty-first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry.
							The company was constantly with the regiment and participated in all its movements
								until January 8, 1899, when it was detailed on provost duty at Marianao, Cuba, where
								it remained until January 24th, returning to the regiment on that day.
							The muster-out occurred on April 30, 1899, and on the same day the company took the
								train for home, returning 
								
									NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS, COMPANY I.
								
								 by Washington, D. C., and Indianapolis, Indiana.
								Arrangements had been made for a review of the whole regiment at Washington by the
								President, but owing to the unexpected delay of trains this was not fully carried
								out. However, as this company and three others arrived on the first section of the
								train on Monday evening, May 1st, they were met by a committee of Indianians who
								escorted them to the White House where they were permitted to pass through the
								reception room. Each member of the company was presented with a silk badge bearing a
								cut of the Capitol building and these words: "Greeting: 161st Regiment Indiana
								Volunteers. By Indianians in Washington, D. C., May 1st, 1899."
							Elaborate arrangements had been made for the reception of this and the Michigan
								City and Hammond companies on Tuesday evening, May 2, but the previous delay of the
								train made this impossible and in lieu of this an early breakfast was served on
								Wednesday morning. The generous and loyal hospitality of the ladies was greatly
								appreciated by the companies, and the greeting extended them by the Governor and his
								acceptance of the regimental flag and colors were most touching, eloquent and
								inspiring.
							The company reached Monticello at 12 M., May 3rd, and were
								received with that joy that resides only in the hearts of those who have been
								anxiously waiting for the return of departed and long absent children. The home
								greeting will ever be remembered. Again the cannon boomed, flags waved, and bands
								discoursed music, while excited crowds surged along the streets, keeping pace with
								the boys and clasping their hands as they marched to the room where a home-coming
								feast had been prepared by the ladies of the town. The rapture of the delighted
								populace, the bounteous dinner, and address of welcome left an  impress in the minds of the receiving as well as the returning never
								to be eradicated, and fully demonstrated the loyalty that resides in the hearts of
								the American people.
						

						

						
							COMPANY I ROSTER.

							
								WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Captain, Monticello.
									Lawyer.
								ANTHONY A. ANHEIR, 1st Lieut.,
									Monticello, Cigarmaker.
								JOHN R. WARD, 2d Lieut., Monticello,
									Lawyer.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Strubbe., Harry E., Goodland, Plumber, promoted 1st Sergt. Nov. 29, 1898, from
									corporal.
								Imes, Fred. S., Q. M. Sergt., Monticello, Clerk, appointed Quartermaster
									Serg't from corporal Dec. 22, 1898.
								Best, William D., Brookston, Laborer, mustered in as Serg't July 13,
									1898.
								Cromer, Robert H., Logansport, Clerk, mustered in as Serg't July 13,
									1898.
								Kassabaum, George W., Kentland, Lawyer, mustered in as Serg't July 13,
									1898.
								Hubbard, Charles E., Francesville, Farmer, mustered in as Serg't July 13,
									1898.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Thompson, Clinton H., Monon, Student, mustered in as Corp. July, 13,
									1898.
								Hausman, William Earl, Rensselaer, Salesman, mustered in as Corp. July 13,
									1898.
								Holdridge, Leroy L., Wolcott, Farmer, mustered in as Corp. July 13,
									1898.
								Goodwin, Marion L., Battle Ground, Farmer, mustered, in as Corp. July 13,
									1898.




								

								Wallace, Lew, Battle Ground, Carpenter, mustered in as Corp. July 18,
									1898.
								Burns, John,. Logansport, Clerk, mustered in as Corp. July 13, 1898.
								Garrigues, John U., Francesville, Carpenter, mustered in as Corp. July 18,
									1898.
								Gorman, Daniel V., Logansport, Express Agent, promoted Corp. from private Nov.
									29, 1898.
								Graham, John W., Kirkland, Laborer, promoted Corp. from private Nov. 29,
									1898.
								Gibson, Frank E., Remington, Telegrapher, promoted Corp. from private Nov. 29,
									1898.
								Coen, Newel M., Monticello, Clerk, promoted Corp. from Artificer Dec. 22,
									1898.
								Loughry, Howard, Monticello, Student, promoted to Corp. from private Dec. 21,
									1898.
							

							
								COOK.
								Smock, Thomas W., Indianapolis, Cook, enlisted and enrolled as cook, Dec. 2,
									1898.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Conner, Charles A., Reynolds, Traveling Salesman.
								Comer, William E., Reynolds, Carpenter.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Arrick, K. Guy, Monticello, Tanner.
								Arnold, Charles E., Delphi, Machinist.
								Ballard, Samuel P., Monon, Ditcher.
								Bates, Wilbur F., Monticello, Harness Manufacturer.
								Benica, Louis C., Logansport, Cook.
								Best, Charles A., Brookston, Ditcher.
								Bowman, George, Battle Ground, Farmer.
								Boyles, Charles S., Battle Ground, Hunter.
								Boyles, Benton A., Battle Ground, Barber.
								Bugbee, George J., Remington, Teacher.
								Burden, John W., Monticello, Laborer.



								

								Brown, Arthur H., Monticello, Student.
								Cooley, George, Brookston, Laborer.
								Cowger, Raymond, Monticello, Farmer.
								Crafton, Paul, Bedford, Ind., Farmer.
								Crowell, Richard, Monticello, Clerk.
								Coombs, Edward, Brownstown, Laborer, transferred from Co. G, 159th Ind. to
									161st Ind., Dec. 1, 1898.
								Dillman, William O., Battle Ground, Well Driller.
								Downs, William A., Battle Ground, Carpenter.
								Didlake, Roy P., Monticello, Student.
								Diffy, John, Pickard, Laborer.
								Evans, Albert, Wheatfield, Laborer.
								Fehrle, John G., Goodland, Laborer.
								Fox, Stuart T., Monticello, Student.
								Garwood, Corydon, Monon, Farmer.
								Goodrich, Guy, Wolcott, Carpenter.
								Guest, Frank A., Monticello, Laborer.
								Hager, Charles A, Logansport, Cigarmaker.
								Hartz, John F., Logansport, Boilermaker.
								Hart, Joseph, Monticello, Farmer.
								Hawkina, William J., Rensselaer, Farmer.
								Hayward, Lorenzo, Monon, Farmer.
								Heglin, William, Monon, Cook.
								Herron, Richard, Monticello, Cigarmaker.
								Hurst, William A., Battle Ground, Barber.
								Hollcraft, Charles H., Hammond, Laborer.
								Horner, George W., Knox, Ind., Farmer.
								Karp, George A., Monticello, Student.
								Lee, Claude J., Logansport, Railroader.
								Lefler, Israel J., Francesville, Hostler.
								Leslie, Albert, E., Monon, Railroader.
								Longwell, John, Francesville, Farmer.
								Langner, Gustave A., Evansville, Laborer, transferred from Co. M, 159th Ind.,
									to Co. I, 161st Ind., Dec. 4, 1898.
								Mahoney, Daniel, Bessemer, Mich., Brakeman.
								Mair, Albert, Monon, Baker.
								Meyer, Henry Gustave, Remington, Painter.




								

								Montrose, Jesse, Peru, Papermaker.
								McCloud, Edward E., Sheldon, Ill., Clerk.
								McChristy, Enos A., Round Grove, Farmer.
								McNett, Walter, Wolcott, Farmer.
								Murphy, Charles L., Remington, Farmer.
								Myers, Oliver C., Brookston, Farmer.
								Maxey, William, Booneville, Farmer, transferred to Co. I, 161st Ind., from Co.
									M, 159th Ind., Dec. 1, 1898.
								McConnell, John F., Evansville, Clerk, transferred to Co. I, 161st Ind., from
									Co. M, 159th Ind., Dec. 1, 1898.
								Miller, Reverdy J., Bloomington, Laborer, transferred to Co. I, 161st Ind.,
									from Co. H, 159th Ind., Dec. 4, 1898.
								Netzel, William, Medaryville, Laborer.
								Pettit, William, Monticello, Laborer.
								Reynolds, Elmer E., Monticello, Farmer.
								Rogers, Alva J., Monon, Farmer.
								Rinier, Edward L., Hopedale, Farmer.
								Sheets, Samuel H., Monon, Farmer.
								Shide, Frank, Remington, Farmer.
								Simons, Walter A., Monticello, Student.
								Smith, Bruce W., Goodland, Laborer.
								Sorrel, Perry H., Rensselaer, Harnessmaker.
								Stanley, Melvin, Monon, Farmer.
								Strebe, Edward, Brookston, Blacksmith.
								Tanguy, William E., Logansport, Printer.
								Tharpe, Walter C., Rensselaer, Farmer.
								Tharpe, Wilber, Rensselaer, Teacher.
								Thompson, Wilber L., Monon, Railroader.
								Tice, Stephen E., Goodland, Farmer.
								Ward, James A., Monticello, Student.
								Whitted, Elmer, Francisville, Painter.
								Wood, Oliver H., Remington, Farmer.
								Young, Harrison, Roachdale, Farmer.
							

							
								DISCHARGED BY ORDER.
								Shaull, Henry A., private, Lochiel, Farmer, discharged per  Special Order No. 6, War Department, Adjutant
									General's Office, Jan. 6, 1899.
								Rourke, John P., private, Monon, Tailor, discharged per Special Order No. 16,
									War Department, Adjutant General's Office, Jan. 18, 1899, order dated Jan. 30,
									1899.
								Henry, Hiram, private, Monticello, Farmer, discharged Jan. 24, 1899, per
									Special Order 21, War Department, Adjutant General's Office.
								McDaniels, George A., wagoner, Battle Ground, Farmer, discharged per Special
									Order No. 26, War Department, Adjutant General's Office, dated Feb. 1,
									1899.
								Newton, James B., private, LaFayette, Laborer, discharged Jan. 30, 1899, per
									Special Order dated Feb. 4, 1899.
								Brooks, Edward E, private, Logansport, Laborer, discharged. per Special Order
									29, War Department, Adjutant General's Office, Feb. 4, 1899.
							

							
								TRANSFERRED.
								Scott, Franklin G., Goodland, Carpenter, transferred to United States
									Volunteer Hospital Corps, per Special Order No. 10, dated August 20, 1898.
								Dexter, Jacob W., Goodland, Carpenter, transferred to United States Volunteer
									Hospital Corps, per Special Order No. 10, dated August 20, 1898.
								Tharpe, Walter A., musician, Remington, Teacher, transferred to United States
									Voluntser Signal Corps Dec. 10, per Special Order 282, Adjutant General's Office,
									dated Nov. 30, 1898.
								Engle, Walter M., Francisville, Electrician, transferred to United States
									Volunteer Signal Corps Dec. 31, 1898, per Special Order 291, Adjutant General's
									Office, dated Dec. 10, 1898.
							

							
								DIED OF DISEASE.
								Kuns, Clarence D., Brookston, Barber, died Sept. 24, at Third Division
									Hospital o typhoid fever, Camp Cuba Libre, Fla.




								

								Stivers, Wallace D., Corp., Rensselaer, Farmer, died at Third Division
									Hospital, of typhoid fever, Camp Cuba Libre, Fla., Oct. 14, 1898.
								Kepperling, George, Chalmers, Farmer, died Oct. 23, at Chalmers, Ind,, while
									on furlough.
								Weaver, William G., Monticello, Farmer, died in Second Division Hospital, Camp
									Onward, Ga., Nov. 7, 1898, of stomach trouble.
								Turner, Joseph F., San Pierre, Blacksmith, died in Division Hospital,,Camp
									Onward, Ga., Nov. 30, 1898, of pneumonia.
							
						
					

					

					
						COMPANY F.

						

						
							PAUL COMSTOCK.

							Captain Paul Comstock is the son of Judge D. W. Comstock, of the Appellate Bench of
								Indiana. He was born at Richmond, Indiana, in the year 1873. After his early
								training he spent one year in the Oxford Military Naval Academy, at the close of
								which he entered the Richmond high school, graduating in 1891; his education was
								then finished in the Earlham College and the Ohio Wesleyan University. Mr. Comstock
								was then tendered a position in the general superintendent's office of the
								Pennsylvania Railroad Company at Columbus, and later in the engineering department
								at Indianapolis, in which position he continued until April, 1898, when he was
								appointed claim agent for the same road, in which service he was engaged when he
								enlisted for the war. Mr. Comstock was elected first lieutenant of his company and
								was for several months adjutant of the Second Battalion and upon the resignation of
								Captain Smith was promoted to the position of captain, April 1, 1899.



							

							
								CAPTAIN PAUL COMSTOCK.
							
						

						

						
							ELMER E. KIMMEL.

							Second Lieutenant Elmer E. Kimmel, "Old Kim," as he was familiarly known, is the
								son of Charles F. and Catherine S. Kimmel, sturdy German stock. The father, a
								veteran of the Civil war, following the desires of his heart to give his first son a
								good name, remembered an illustrious officer who was among the first to give up his
								life for the union, Colonel E. Elmer Ellsworth, and called the son,  born to him, August 3, 1874, Elmer Ellsworth Kimmel.
								Educated in the public schools of his native city, Dayton, Ohio, at the early age of
								thirteen, he began the struggle of life. The start was made as a cash boy at one
								dollar and a half per week, but not having a liking for mercantile 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT ELMER E. KIMMEL.
								 business finally drifted into book binding, at which trade he served a
								full apprenticeship. While following this trade he drifted into Richmond, Indiana,
								in June, 1894, adopting Hoosierdom as his chosen home; while here the desire came
								for a more complete education and having a favorable opportunity of working his way
								through Earlham, a Quaker college, he spent two years at that institution, from
								which  place he enlisted as a member of the Richmond
								company and was commissioned second lieutenant, which office he filled until the
								resignation of Captain Will M. Smith, when promoted to the first lieutenancy. It is
								the intention of Lieutenant Kimmel to enter Ann Arbor University, taking up medicine
								as a special study.
						

						

						
							WILLIAM H. DRAPIER.

							Second Lieutenant Drapier's life has been spent in the city of Indianapolis, in
								which place he was born in 1869, 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT WILLIAM H. DRAPIER.
								
								 and in the public schools of which he received his
								education, graduating from the high school in 1887. After graduation Mr. Drapier
								embarked in the insurance business and there continued until the breaking out of the
								Spanish-American war. He enlisted with Company F as a private and was rapidly
								advanced through the line of promotion to the position of second lieutenant of the
								company. Mr. Drapier's promotion was due to his efficient and excellent military
								training, having served several years in various capacities in the Indiana National
								Guard.
						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY F.

							Richmond, the "Quaker City," is generally quiet, but when the news came of the
								blowing up of the Maine it woke up. Several enterprising young men, about four or
								five, who desired a captain's commission started a company, but as the city did not
								have a military company, she must wait for the second call before being represented
								in the army of the United States. Interest waned until the company organized by Will
								M. Smith was alone in the field. This company was at first intended to be an
								artillery company, and besides drilling in infantry drill quite a number of the men
								purchased old French bayonets, almost two feet long, and practiced the saber drill.
								We had free access to a large hall, and the gas company, with true patriotism,
								furnished the light gratis. The company met two nights each week, and after drilling
								a short time in the hall would drill around the court house square. In the meanwhile
								another company was organized, and for a time there was intense rivalry as to which
								company would be called upon after the second call came and it was known that Wayne
								county would have one company in the state quota.




							


							
								COMPANY F.
							


							

							During the latter part of June it was daily expected that the call would come from
								the governor to come to Indianapolis. The signal agreed upon was for the large 
									CAPTAIN WILL M. S>MITH.
								 manufacturing concerns to blow their whistles. Friday, June 24, the
								governor telegraphed who was to be the examining surgeon--Dr. Weist, a veteran of
								the Civil war, and at 4 P. M. the whistles
								gave the discordant alarm and the boys left their work benches, dropping their tools
								and hastened to the room in the Westcott hotel, where the news was read to them,
								telling them to be in readiness. Saturday and Sunday was spent in medical
								examinations, and Monday we expected to go to the state capitol; instead we were
								ordered to await further orders. Something must be done, as many had come in from
								the country and neighboring cities, expecting to leave Monday, and others having
								left their work would become impatient. Glen Mills, a natural park situated on the
								eastern side of Richmond, was decided would be a good place for a temporary camp,
								and 
								
									SERGEANTS, COMPANY F.
								
								 procuring permission from the city to use it we
								went into camp Monday afternoon of the 24th of June. The dancing pavilion was used
								for sleeping and eating quarters. The first thing done was, each man carried an arm
								load of hay to sleep on, it being our first experience of the kind. The good people
								of Richmond subscribed liberally to procure food, and we did live in those days. We
								had guard mount every day, besides about four hours' drill every afternoon. We had
								free use of the boats on the lake, and were allowed the especial privilege of
								bathing in the lake. Great crowds came to see us drill, and here we lived and in
								each one's memory there will ever live the jolly times of those fond days at Camp
								Ostrander, our first camp. Friday we marched through the city to the depot, where we
								bid our relatives and friends a sad farewell, for little did we know whether we
								would ever meet again or not, and three of our number returned not.
							At 10:40 Friday, July 1, we left for Camp Mount, being the fourth company to report
								for duty; from here our history became a part of the regimental history.
						

						

						
							COMPANY F ROSTER.

							
								WILL M. SMITH, Captain--Resigned March
									31, 1899; Greensburg, Ind., Electrical Engineer.
								PAUL COMSTOCK, Captain--Promoted from
									1st Lieutenant. April 1, 1899; Richmond, Ind., Claim Agent.
								ELMER E. KIMMEL, 1st
									Lieutenant--Promoted from 2d Lieutenant April 1, 1899; Richmond, Ind.,
									Student.
								WILLIAM H. DRAPIER, JR., 2d Lieutenant--Promoted from Sergeant, April 1, 1899; Indianapolis,
									Ind., Broker.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Martin, William, 1st Serg't, Richmond, Ind., Laborer, discharged Feb. 18,
									1899.





								

								
									CORPORALS, COMPANY F.
								


								

								Moss, Abraham T., Eaton, Ohio, Machinist, discharged March 3, 1899.
								Tawer, Oscar P., Jr., Richmond, Ind., Action Finisher, appointed Q. M. Serg't
									Jan. 17, 1899.
								Edwards, Leroy, Richmond, Ind., Drayman.
								Weissgerber, John C., New Castle, Ind., Salesman, discharged Jan. 16,
									1899.
								Keller, Frank, Richmond, Ind., Papermaker, appointed Corporal July 12, 1898;
									appointed Sergeant March 13, 1899.
								Tawer, Paul O., Richtnond, Ind., Florist, appointed Corporal July 12, 1898;
									appointed Sergeant March 13, 1899.
								Sheppard, Henry W., Seymour, Ind., Florist, appointed Corporal July 12, 1898;
									appointed Sergeant March 13, 1899.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Bader, Charles O., Richmond, Ind., Student.
								Kuhlman, Charles O., Richmond, Ind., Plumber.
								Petry, Harvey C., Fountain City, Ind., Laborer.
								Arnett, Willis W., Richmond, Ind., Laborer.
								Steele, John J., Richmond, Ind., Printer, appointed Corp. Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Handley, Albert E., College Corner, Ohio, Painter, appointed Corp. Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Addleman, John F., Whitewater, Ind., Laborer, appointed Corp. Sept. 1,
									1898.
								Weissgerber, Frank H., New Castle, Ind., Florist, appointed Corp. Oct. 18,
									1898.
								Bode, Frederick, appointed Corp. March 13, 1898.
								Stratton, Roy O.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Foard, William G., Richmond, Ind., Clerk.
								Muye, George, Richmond, Ind., Machinist.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Hennigar, Gilbert S.. Richmond, Ind., Blacksmith, appointed Wagoner Jan. 18,
									1899.
							


							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								Hennigar, Harry, Richmond, Ind., discharged March 11, 1899.
							

							
								COOK.
								Higgs, George, Richmond, Ind., Carpenter.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Addleman, Samuel C., White Water, Ind., Butcher.
								Allen, Roy M., Liberty, Ind., Painter.
								Allinder, William, Richmond, Ind., Machinist.
								Bader, Robert S., Richmond, Ind.
								Brown, Denver, W. Manchester, Ohio, Farmer, died in Jacksonville, Fla., Oct.
									23, 1898.
								Bucy, Charles E., Indianapolis, Ind., Polisher.
								Caseley, John E., Richmond, Ind., Machinist, discharged Feb. 23, 1899.
								Cassel, Walter H., Richmond, Ind., Machinist.
								Clark, John W., Machinist.
								Connaughton, John F., Machinist, discharged March 1, 1899.
								Cook, Harry P., Richmond, Ind., Laborer.
								Cook, Joseph R., Richmond, Ind., Operator.
								Decker, Berttie E., Richmond, Ind., Painter.
								DeVerse, Joseph E., Richmond, Ind., Papermaker, deserted Sept. 20, discharged
									without honors Nov. 3, 1898.
								Dickerson, Benjamin F., Clymers, Ind., Laborer.
								Dickey, Marshall D., Richmond, Ind., Painter.
								Duke, James F., Richmond, Ind., Farmer.
								Duke, William H., Richmond, Ind., Farmer.
								Edwards, John, Richmond, Ind., Painter.
								Elliott, Worley F., Richmond, Ind., Farmer.
								Estep, William C., Richmond, Ind., Moulder.
								Francis, John S., Metamora, Franklin Co., Ind., Printer.
								Fudge, Rufus, Richmond, Ind., Printer.
								Fossenkemper, Charles O., Glen Park, Richmond, Ind., Laborer.
								Francis, George B., Indianapolis, Ind., Carpenter.
								Granger, Herman E., DeMotte, Jasper Co., Ind., Carpenter.



								

								Graham, Stephen R., Litchfield, Ky., Farmer.
								Grice, Alonzo N., Richmond, Ind., Printer.
								Haley, Jerry, Indianapolis, Ind., Lather.
								Harmeyer, Harry, Richmond, Ind., Laborer.
								Hassard, Richard B., Richmond, Ind., Polisher.
								Henderson, Robert J., Lynn, Ind., Barber.
								Hamilton, John, Indianapolis, Ind., discharged Feb. 7, 1899.
								Hieger, William E., Richmond, Ind., Machinist, discharged Dec. 31,
									1898.
								Hites, John H., Richmond, Ind., Painter.
								Hoar, John, Centerville, Ind., Farmer, transferred to Band Aug. 23,
									1898.
								Hollopeter, John, Richmond, Ind., Gr. Clerk.
								Hollowell, Charles A., Danville, Ill., Actor.
								Holtcamp, Charlie, Richmond, Ind., Boilermaker.
								Horr, Argus O., Richmond, Ind., Machinist.
								Hurst, Addison C., Richmond, Ind., Messenger.
								Jarrett, Lilleton B., Cox Mills, Ind., Farmer.
								Judy, Lista B., Laborer.
								Kain, Harry F., Richmond, Ind., Laborer, died in Richmond, Indiana.
								Kelly, Harry E., Richmond, Ind., Smith.
								Lanius, Charles W., Richmond, Ind., Painter.
								Loftus, Michael, Richmond, Ind., Coremaker.
								Lovin, George E., Richmond, Ind., Weaver, discharged Feb. 24, 1899.
								Morgan, Charles E., Buena Vista, Colo., Miner.
								Mull, Albert, Carpenter.
								Murray, Alden, Metamora, Ind., Printer.
								Nolan, William, Richmond, Ind., Laborer, discharged Feb. 20, 1899.
								Nye, Edward L., Prestonville, Ky., Clerk.
								Pyle, John B. U., Mount Carmel, Ind., Saddler.
								Reese, William, Hammond, Ind., Farmer, discharged Sept. 28, 1898.
								Reckers, Henry J., Richmond, Ind., Laborer.
								Rusche, Frank, Richmond, Ind., Carriage Trimmer



								

								Ryder, Harry, Richmond, Ind., Machinist.
								Stanley, Franklin B., Richmond, Ind., Gr. Clerk.
								Snyder, William, Columbus, Ind., Laborer.
								Sanders, John H., Richmond, Ind., Farmer.
								Simpson, Walter, Richmond, Ind., Clerk.
								Stegall, Everett E., Williamsburg, Ind., Blacksmith
								Thomas, Harry J., Richmond, Ind., Teamster.
								Thomas, Ira L., Richmond, Ind., Machinist.
								Thompson, Joseph H., Richmond, Ind., Laborer.
								Toler, George C., Richmond, Ind., Plumber.
								Trakowski, Fred W., Richmond, Ind., Baker.
								Trimble, Charles F., Richmond, Ind., Machinist, died at Camp Columbia, Cuba,
									Jan. 17, 1899.
								Triplett, Harry N., Richmond, Ind., Farmer.
								Vanzant, Charles E., Richmond, Ind., Laborer.
								Weaver, Samuel J., Richmond, Ind., Teamster.
								Woesner, William, Metamora, Ind., Farmer.
								Wright, Silvester E., Lynn, Ind., School Teacher, transferred to Regimental
									Band, Aug. 23, 1898.
								Yedding, Ferdinand, Richmond, Ind., Painter.
								Zurwelle, George R., Cox Mills, Ind.. Laborer.
								Zurwelle, William S., Cox Mills, Ind., Gardener.
							

							
								RECRUITED SINCE DAY OF MUSTER.
								Burgan, Burton E., Terre Haute, Ind., Teamster, transferred from 159th I. V.
									I., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Cline, Walter, Columbus, Ind., R. R. Fireman, appointed Corp. March 13,
									1899.
								Hill, John, Green Castle, Ind., Laborer, transferred from the 159th I. V. I.,
									Nov. 3, 1898.
								Lucas, Charles, Indianapolis, Ind., Masseuer, transferred from 159th I. V. I.,
									Nov. 25, 1898.
								Levy, Carl, Evansville, Ind., Moulder.
								Metlin, Earl, Evansville, Ind., Bookkeeper, transferred from 159th I. V. I.,
									Nov. 23, 1898.
								Maxwell, Clifford C., Indianapolis, Ind., Clerk.
								McCoy, Earl, Lawrence, Ind., Tile Moulder, appointed Corp. March 13, 1899,
									transferred from 159th I. V. I., Nov. 23, 1898.



								


								Shearer, Chester A., Terre Haute, Ind., Laundryman, transferred from 159th I.
									V. I.
								Secrist, Leo, Terre Haute, Ind., Tinner, transferred from 159th I. V. I., Nov.
									23, 1898.
								Singler, George, Evansville, Ind., Baker, transferred from 159th I. V. I.,
									Nov. 23, 1898.
							
						
					

					

					
						COMPANY D.

						

						
							RICHARD W. BUCHANAN.

							Captain Richard W. Buchanan was one of the youngest officers of the regiment and
								was the youngest captain of the United States army in the recent Spanish war, born
								in Carrollton, Kentucky, June 28, 1879. His family moved to Madison, Indiana, when
								he was yet a child, where he was reared and where he received his early education,
								graduating from the Madison high school in 1896. At the close of his studies he
								became the city editor of the Madison Daily Democrat and afterwards associate editor
								of the Madison Daily Herald. He also corresponded for several metropolitan dailies
								and became well-known in newspaper circles. He so materially aided through his
								newspaper capacity in the organization of the Madison company that upon its
								acceptance he was elected to the position of second lieutenant. During the first
								days of camp life he acted as correspondent for the Indianapolis Journal, but
								finding it conflicting with his military duties he gave it up. Upon the resignation
								of Captain Cosby he was commisioned on the 8th of March as captain of his
								company.

							

							
								CAPTAIN RICHARD W. BUCHANAN.
							
						

						

						
							CYRUS A. JACKSON.

							Prior to hostilities with Spain, Cyrus A. Jackson was the genial and obliging city
								superintendent of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, at Madison, Indiana. Mr.
								Jackson was elected first lieutenant of Company D, at the organization of that
								company. He assisted Chief McCullagh in the organization of the Metropolitan police
								force of the city of Havana, and distinguished himself by the capture of a burglar
								and desperado. Lieutenant Jackson 
								
									FIRST LIEUTENANT CYRUS A. JACKSON.
								 was born at Vincennes, Indiana, in 1865, educated in the public schools of
								his native city, and has spent the greater portion of his life in the far West.
						

						

						
							LAYTON M. PARKHURST.

							Second Lieutenant Layton M. Parkhurst entered Company D as a private, and was
								rapidly advanced through the line of promotion to first sergeant and was appointed
								second lieutenant of his company March 11, 1899. Mr. Parkhurst was born at Franklin,
								Indiana, October 14, 1876.  His parents dying when
								he was quite young, he made his home with his uncle at Lebanon, Indiana. After
								finishing 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT LAYTON M. PARKHURST.
								 the course of the schools of Lebanon Mr. Parkhurst engaged in the drug
								business at Lebanon until the outbreak of the war.
						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY D.

							Company D, of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana, reported at Camp Mount for
								examination and muster in, on the 1st of July, 1898. But it must not be inferred
								that the Madison public nor the individual members of the 
								
									COMPANY D.
								
								 company, were so tardy in the offer of life and service
								for the nation as the mustering date of the regiment would indicate. Immediately
								upon the declaration of war a company was roughly organized in the "city neath the
								hills," but the claims of the rival leaders caused its partial disruption, a
								considerable number of the organizations combining with a similar faction from
								Roachdale to form a company in the One Hundred and Fifty-ninth. Upon the second call
								of the president for volunteers the disorganized and disheartened members came
								together, under the leadership of Captain Charles E. Cosby, and through the force 
									CAPTAIN CHARLES E. COSBY.
								 and persistency of patriotic fervor, secured from Governor Mount the
								approval which made their calling and election sure. The company moved to
								Indianapolis more than one 
								
									SERGEANTS, COMPANY D
								
								 hundred strong. Not to be selfish, contingents were
								admitted to its ranks from Seymour, North Vernon and Bedford. Through the ordeal of
								examination, a high standard of physique and intelligence was maintained in the
								leadership of the body. Captain Cosby was sustained by Lieutenants Cyrus A. Jackson
								and Richard W. Buchaan. It fell to the lot of Company D to be quartered in one of
								the horse barns at the fair grounds; to the use of the commissioned officers was
								assigned the apartments once occupied by Star Pointer; the appointments, however,
								were too commodious for soldiers, so much so, that the boys were glad to be
								transferred to the canvas camp.
							The thousand and one laughable incidents which marked the apprentice period of
								Company D, in common with other companies, lose their point in telling. Out of the
								confusion of this period, organization and soldierly discipline were gradually
								attained. At Jacksonville, the company suffered considerably from the climate;
								uncertainty to the future, dread lest it might be their lot to go home without
								having seen service, lowered the spirits of the men. In camp at Savannah, the town
								was more cheerful, the prospect was definite. No man in the company will ever cease
								to prize his experience in setting foot on Cuban soil, and no man in the company can
								fail to be thankful that old "D" had not quite entered San Lazarus street in the
								city of Havana at the supreme moment when our flag went up over Morro Castle, for
								each man was thus permitted to witness the transfer of empire. Reviewing all its
								experiences while on the island, Company D feels that it was very fortunate, favored
								in health, in pleasant camp site and in privileges to see and enjoy. Soon after the
								promotion of Lieutenant Richard W. Buchanan to captaincy, Company D became the color
								company and guide of the regiment.


							

							
								CORPORALS, COMPANY D.
							
						

						

						
							COMPANY D ROSTER.

							
								CHARLES E. COSBY, Captain--Resignation
									tendered Feb. 8, 1899, accepted Feb. 25, 1899.
								RICHARD W. BUCHANAN, Captain--Promoted
									from 2d Lieut. March 9, 1899.
								CYRUS A. JACKSON. 1st Lieutenant.
								LAYTON W. PARKHURST, 2d
									Lieutenant--Promoted from 1st Serg't March 10, 1899.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Ferguson, W. Scott, 1st Serg't, Canaan, Ind., Engineer, appointed 1st Serg't
									March 15, 1899.
								Taylor, John S., Q. M. Serg't, Hanover, Ind., Farmer, mustered as Q M.
									Serg't.
								Huckleberry, Silas D., North Vernon, Ind., Student, mustered as Serg't.
								Carter, Everett, Seymour, Ind., Clerk, mustered as Serg't.
								Griffith, Ulysses J., Vevay, Ind., Law Student, promoted to Corp Sept. 11,
									1898, promoted to Serg't Dec. 9, 1898.
								Stoner, Henry, Brightwood, Ind., Bookkeeper, promoted to Corp. Aug. 20, 1898,
									promoted to Serg't March 15, 1899.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Jeffries, John, Madison, Ind., Miller, mustered as Corp.
								Rayborn, William E., Canaan, Ind., Farmer, mustered as Corp.
								Vawter, Charles D., Madison, Ind., Traveling Salesman, promoted to Corp. Aug.
									20, 1898.
								Oliver, Samuel, Madison, Ind., Laborer, promoted to Corp. Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Sayers, Robert M., Madison, Ind., Stenographer, mustered as Corp.
								Wheeler, Cale K., Evansville, Ind., Patternmaker, transferred to Co. D from
									Co. E, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898, promoted to Corp. Dec. 9, 1898.



								

								Burroughs, Elmer, Mt. Sterling, Ind., Farmer, promoted to Corp. Dec. 9,
									1898.
								Miles, Gus E., North Vernon, Ind., Carpenter, promoted to Corp. March 15,
									1899.
								Thorpe, Charles A., Cartersburg, Ind., Laborer, promoted to Corp. March 15,
									1899.
								Neal, DeCourcy, Brooksburg, Ind., Farmer, promoted to Corp. March 15,
									1899.
								Herring, William, Pleasant, Ind., Farmer, promoted to Corp. March 15,
									1899.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Harper, John E., Pleasant, Ind., Farmer, mustered as Musician.
								Brownscombe, Chas. W., Bedford, Ind., Paper Hanger, transferred to Co. D,
									161st Ind., from Co. H, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898, appointed Musician Dec 7,
									1898.
							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								Loyd, Joseph W., Versailles, Ind., Carpenter, mustered as Artificer.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Riedel, Ronald H., Zion, Ind., Farmer, mustered as Wagoner,
							

							
								COOK.
								Ivor, Charles N., Canaan, Ind., Cook, mustered as Cook Dec. 2, 1898.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Abbott, Harrison, Madison, Ind., Laborer.
								Adams, George W., Guthrie, Ind., Laborer.
								Arnold, Edward, Vernon, Ind., Laborer.
								Ballard, Martin, Madison, Ind., Laborer.
								Bassett, Robert S., Versailles, Ind., Laborer.
								Blue, Arther, Seymour, Ind.. Tailor.
								Bucy, Leander, Brightwood, Ind., Railroader.
								Casey, Ashby, Madison, Ind., Cook.
								Chambers, Clarence B., Kent, Ind., Farmer.
								Clarkson, Andrew J., Madison. Ind., Laborer.


								

								Coryell, Charles, Hayden, Ind., Farmer.
								Crain, Gilbert D., Evansville, Ind., Student, transferred to Co. D, 161st
									Ind., from Co. E, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Davis, Chester, North Vernon, Ind., Student.
								Dowlen, Henry, Bedford, Ind., Clerk.
								Dugan, William M., Indianapolis, Ind., Tool Grinder.
								Evans, Harry O., North Vernon, Ind., Laborer, transferred to Co. D, 161st
									Ind., from Co. G, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Foster, Charles, North Vernon, Ind., Laborer.
								French, Emanuel, Indianapolis, Ind., Farmer.
								Frooks, James, Madison, Ind., Riverman.
								Gaussin, Clarence C., Bedford, Ind., Clerk.
								Gilligan, Joseph, Faulkner, Ind., Farmer.
								Griffin, Harvey, Canaan, Ind., Farmer.
								Grubbs, Wilkerson E., Madison, Ind., Cabinetmaker.
								Hagan, Robert E., Canaan, Ind., Salesman.
								Haukins, James, Madison, Ind., Laborer.
								Hargrove, Benjaman R., North Vernon, Ind., Clerk.
								Harper, Charles E., Pleasant, Ind., Farmer.
								Harrison, Thomas, Bee Camp, Ind., Farmer.
								Hatcher, John H., Vincennes, Ind., Cutter, transferred to Co. D, 161st Ind.,
									from Co. L, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Henderson, Arthur, Seymour, Ind., Farmer.
								Henderson, Charles C., Seymour, Ind., Railroader.
								Hill, William, Seymour, Ind., Clerk.
								Hoskins, John W., Evansville, Ind., Clerk, transferred to Co. D, 161st Ind.,
									from Co. E, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Hyatt, William, Madison, Ind., Steamboating.
								Jackson, Hiram, China, Ind., Farmer.
								Jenkins, William E., Madison, Ind., Ship Carpenter.
								King, Otto, North Vernon, Ind., Laborer, transferred to Co. D, 161st Ind.,
									from Co. G, 159th Ind., Nov. 28, 1898.
								Lawler, Roy, North Vernon, Ind., Laborer.
								Lostetter, George, Madison, Ind., Spoke Turner.
								Lunger, Isaac, Madison, Ind., Laborer.



								

								Mathew, James, North Vernon, Ind., Laborer.
								Matthews, John H., Manville, Ind., Farmer.
								Matthews, Aubrey E., McGregor, Ind., Farmer.
								McGee, George, Madison, Ind., Laborer.
								Metz, Fred, Versailles, Ind., Laborer.
								Parsons, Elmore O., Madison, Ind., Laborer.
								Prather, John K., Seymour, Ind., Egg Packer.
								Ray, Wesley M., Bloomington, Ind., Farmer, transferred to Co. D, 161st Ind.,
									from C. H, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Rea, Harvey, Haney's Corner, Ind., Farmer.
								Redman, Roland E., Bedford, Ind., Baker.
								Reininga, William C., Ingelfield, Ind., Farmer, transferred to Co. D, 161st
									Ind., from Co. E, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Ricketts, Clarence, Vevay, Ind., Farmer.
								Riley, David, Reddington, Ind., Farmer.
								Robinson, Riley, Seymour, Ind., Clerk.
								Ruth, Andy, Lawrenceville, Ill., Farmer, transferred to Co. D, 161st Ind.,
									from Co. A, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Scanlan, Charles J., Seymour, Ind., Clerk.
								Schwab, Frank, North Madison, Ind., Laborer.
								Shepherd, Harry B., Dupont, Ind., Clerk.
								Skinner, William A., Indianapolis, Ind., Clerk.
								Spannagel, Joseph, North Vernon, Ind., Farmer.
								Sthiar, Harry, Gosport, Ind., Laborer, transferred to Co. D, 161st Ind., from
									Co. H, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								St. John, Joseph, Hayden, Ind., Farmer.
								Strang, Morton O., North Vernon, Ind., Clerk.
								Strickland, Lafe, North Vernon, Ind., Teamster.
								Teepe, Ernest J., North Vernon, Ind., Student.
								Thompson, William E., Bedford, Ind., Railroader.
								Vandemore, Oris, North Vernon, Ind., Laborer.
								Vawter, John S., Madison, Ind., Laborer.
								Weed, Charles, Bedford, Ind., Laborer.
								Welch, Homer M., Seymour, Ind., Laborer.
								Whitaker, Albert L., Wilmore, Ky., Laborer.


								

								Wilson, Charles S., Madison, Ind., Broommaker.
								Whitaker, James K., Cloverdale, Ind., Cutter, transferred to Co. D, 161st
									Ind., from Co. H, 159th Ind., Nov. 23, 1898.
								Wray, Millard, Clear Spring, Ind., Farmer.
							

							
								DISCHARGED.
								Gilbert, William B., Priv., Madison, Ind., Weaver, Aug. 21, 1898.
								Euler, Nelson C. B., Priv., North Vernon, Ind., Painter, Sept. 13,
									1898.
								Groub, John C., Corp., Seymour, Ind., Clerk, Sept. 19, 1898.
								Barnes, Walter, Priv., Anderson, Ind., Tinsmith, Jan. 3, 1899.
								Boeglin, Louis, Corp., Bryantsburg, Ind., Farmer, Jan. 12, 1899.
								Lostetter, Rudolph, Priv., Madison, Ind., Spoke Grader, Jan. 20, 1899.
								Ferris, William, Corp., Lancaster, Ind., Miller, Jan. 31, 1899.
								Hufford, Raymond H., Corp., Cartersburg, Ind., Farmer, March 15, 1899.
								Jackson, Mathew, Priv., Seymour, Ind., Clerk, March 7, 1899.
								Hawkins, John S., Priv., Ghent, Ky., Clerk, March 7, 1899.
								Myres, William, Priv., Madison, Ind., Laborer, March 21, 1899.
							

							
								DEATHS.
								Sebree, John A., Priv., Ghent, Ky., Laborer, Oct. 14, 1898.
								Green, Frank M., Priv., North Vernon, Ind., Steelworker, Nov. 3, 1898.
								Graham, Alonzo N., Priv., Lancaster, Ind., Farmer, Jan. 24, 1899.
							

							
								TRANSFERRED.
								Logan, Michael M., Corp., Bryantsburg, Ind., Iron Roller, Aug. 20, 1898,
									Hospital Corps.
								Renfroe, Marcus D., Corp., Canaan, Ind., Farmer, Aug. 20, 1898, Hospital
									Corps.



								

								Dale, Wesley, Priv., North Vernon, Ind., Farmer, Aug. 20, 1898, Hospital
									Corps.
								White, Harry K., 1st. Serg't, Dalton, N. Y., Traveling Salesman, Sept. 8,
									1898, U. S. Vol. Signal Corps.
							
						
					
				


				


				
					THIRD BATTALION
						C, G, H, L.

					
					
						MAJOR LEE M. OLDS.
					

					

					
						LEE M. OLDS.


						Major Lee M. Olds, one of the youngest majors in the volunteer service, is the son of
							Judge Olds, of Chicago, a former chief justice of the supreme court of the state of
							Indiana, and who was a Union soldier in the Civil war. Major Olds boasts a remarkable
							ancestry of volunteer soldiers who did good service in the colonial wars, in the war
							of Revolution and of 1812, as well as the late rebellion.
						He was born at Columbia City, Indiana, October 21, 1874. He spent a few years at
							Wabash College, and then entered the Michigan Military Academy at Orchard Lake, from
							which institution he graduated in 1893. Immediately upon graduation he entered the
							Northwestern University, where he took a course in the classics, and later a thorough
							course in the law department of that university. He was president of the Chicago Law
							Students' Association, an organization of twenty-four hundred students of all law
							schools of the city. After completing his studies he practiced his profession
							simultaneously in Chicago and Hammond in the firm of Olds & Griffin, of which his
							father is senior partner.
						Major Olds entered the service as captain of a company from Hammond, and by his
							military aptitude and hard practice brought his men to the enviable position of
							Company A. On September 9, 1898, Colonel Durbin commanding the brigade, Captain Olds
							was in command for months of the First Battalion, and upon the resignation of Major
							Peterson was appointed by Governor Mount to the majorship of the Third Battalion. His
							commission was presented by Colonel Durbin at regimental parade December 1, 1898, and
							on the evening of the same day the young officer was mustered as major by Major
							Longstreet.




						

						Major Olds is a born soldier and commander; his appearance is commanding and his
							voice military to a finish. The young officer has borne his honors well.
					

					

					
						COMPANY C.

						

						
							THOMAS J. HUDGINS.

							Captain Thomas J. Hudgins was born in Franklin county, Tennessee, October 22, 1859.
								His parents moved to Indiana in 1867. He attended school at Morristown Seminary,
								Morristown, Indiana; accepted a position with C., H. & D. R. R. in 1878, then to
								P., C., C. & St. L. R. R. in 1880, remaining with the Pennsylvania Company until
								1884, then accepting a position with Big Four Railroad at Indianapolis; accepted
								position as general agent of the Big Four at Shelbyville, Indiana, November 14,
								1888, and at the outbreak of the Spanish-American war organized a company at
								Shelbyville, Indiana, and tried to get the company accepted for first call for
								volunteers. The Big Four railroad granted Captain Hudgins two years' leave of
								absence and on his return his old position or a better one will be given him.
								Captain Hudgins, being the senior captain of the Third Battalion, was in command of
								the battalion the greater part of the time from August 14 to November 30, 1898.
								Captain Hudgins was married in 1882, and has one child, Leslie P. Hudgins.
							The Captain's parents live at Morristown, Indiana, and his only brother, Robert H.
								Hudgins, Jr., was quartermaster sergeant for Company C.

							

							
								CAPTAIN THOMAS J. HUDGINS.
							
						

						

						
							GEORGE E. GOODRICH.

							George E. Goodrich, first lieutenant, Company C, One Hundred and Sixty-first
								Indiana Volunteer Infantry, was born in Brandywine township, Shelby county, Indiana,
								at the old family homestead, April 6, 1872. He moved to Shelbyville with his parents
								in 1880. His forefathers originally came from Scotland, and knew the hardships of
								pioneer days in the states. His grandfather, George Goodrich,  for whom he was named, was a veteran of the Mexican war. Three uncles
								also served in the Union army in the Civil war, one being killed in the battle of
								Peach Tree Creek. The surviving two are now residents of Shelbyville and Shelby
								county. On graduating from school, 
									FIRST LIEUTENANT GEORGE E. GOODRICH.
								 Lieutenant Goodrich assumed the management of Blessing's opera house, the
								only theater in Shelbyville, but resigned from the management near the close of his
								second successful season, in January, 1894, to accept a position on the reportorial
								staff of the Shelbyville Daily Democrat, edited by the late W. Scott Ray, one of the
								best known Indiana editors of his day. The position had been vacated  by Edward A. Major, appointed postmaster of
								Shelbyville during President Cleveland's second tenure in office. During Lieutenant
								Goodrich's connection with the Democrat he served three years in the Indiana
								National Guard as first sergeant of Company K, Second Regiment, commanded by Colonel
								Ross. He continued with the Democrat until the second call for volunteers to serve
								in the Spanish-American war was made by President McKinley, in May, 1898, when he
								secured a leave of absence from his duties the following month to enlist in the
								company then being recruited at Shelbyville, and departed with the company for Camp
								Mount, July 2. Having been previously elected first lieutenant by the members of the
								company, he was mustered into the service as such on July 11, 1898, and commissioned
								by Governor Mount on July 20, 1898, and appointed adjutant of the Third Battalion by
								a regimental order a few days later. Lieutenant Goodrich is a member of Kiowa Tribe,
								No. 199, I. O. R. M., of Shelbyville.
						

						

						
							IVY LESTER REYNOLDS.

							Second Lieutenant Ivy Lester Reynolds was born in Franklin, Johnson county,
								Indiana, September 18, 1876, and in 1881 removed to Shelbyville, Indiana, with his
								parents He was educated in the public schools of Shelbyville, at the age of fourteen
								entered the employment of the Shelby Printing Company as carrier and collector, and
								later attached himself to C. Steinhauser, watchmaker and jeweler, at Shelbyville, to
								learn the art of watchmaking. Serving three and a half years there, he went to
								Indianapolis to complete his trade with Dyer & Matsumoto, manufacturing
								jewelers, and later with Ikko Matsumoto, which position he filled much to the
								satisfaction of his employer,  until in the fall of
								1897, when he opened a shop at No. 49 Public Square, Shelbyville, and was favored
								with much success, closing up the business to enlist with the company under Captain
								Hudgins.
							Under direction of Captain Clayton, Ivy Lester Reynolds 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT IVY LESTER REYNOLDS.
								 nolds captained a company of boys brigade at the Christian church of
								Shelbyville, a few years later enlisted in Company K. of the Indiana National Guard,
								under Captain J. R. Clayton, serving two years of his enlistment, when, on going to
								Indianapolis, was transferred to Company A, Second Regiment Indiana National Guard,
								Captain H. C. Castor, in which company he rapidly received promotion, from the rank
								of lance-corporal to second lieutenant in 
								twenty-three months. During the service with Company A he participated in several
								prize drills at Indianapolis at the state fair gounds. Upon returning to
								Shelbyville, in 1897, he organized, drilled and uniformed the Rex Zouaves, a company
								which became very proficient in fancy military drills and was always a public
								favorite. He also commanded Company C a number of weeks at Jacksonville and Savannah
								during the time when Captain Hudgins commanded the Third Battalion in the absence of
								Major M. R. Peterson.
							Upon arriving in Cuba Mr. Reynolds, with St. C. A. Jackson, was called to General
								Ludlow's staff and assigned to the police department as military instructor and
								inspector of police of the city of Havana, they receiving many high compliments as a
								result of diligent work.
						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY C.

							The trials, tribulations and vicissitudes attendant upon the organization and
								acceptance of Company C into the service were many and varied. To begin with,
								Captain Hudgins, an ardent supporter of the project then actively engaged in the
								political affairs of Shelbyville, was compelled to meet the accusation of a local
								newspaper of opposite political proclivities to the effect that the project was a
								political intrigue to induce certain voters to accompany him (Captain Hudgins) to
								some point not yet decided upon, and by keeping them out of the city until after
								election day, thus occasion them the loss of their votes. Nothing daunted by the
								assertion thus made, the captain persisted in his work of recruiting the company; an
								interesting feature of the final organization, being that one of his accusers, then
								on the reportorial staff of the paper in question, was not only  won over to the captain's way of thinking but afterwards became one of
								the active supporters of the project and eventually a commissioned officer in the
								company. The first meeting relative to the proposed organization was held in the
								city council chamber.
							Early in April, 1898, other meetings followed, with the result that when the first
								call for volunteers was made, later in the month, its services were offered in
								response. Not discouraged at its failure to be accepted, new quarters were sought in
								the armory of the old militia company, in the service of the Indiana National Guard,
								from April, 1894, to April, 1897, and drills vigorously continued. Not until after
								the second call for volunteers was made by direction of President McKinley, during
								the latter part of May, were the officers of the company formally elected by the
								members of the organization, although it was generally understood who they were to
								be. Renewed interest was now taken in the drills, which occurred nightly. Then came
								the crushing information that no new regiments would be mustered into the service,
								but that the additional volunteers, designated in the call for seventy-five thousand
								troops, would be used to recruit the regiments already in the field up to the full
								war strength, one hundred and six enlisted men. For a time the fate of the company
								wabbled in a balance, due to the "desertion" of a large number of recruits of the
								company to the organizations of the various branches of the service then in the
								field. This but served to strengthen the determination of those who "stuck to the
								old ship." To recruit the organization to its former strength with the result that
								when another regiment became an assured fact and the preliminary examination of the
								men was begun by Dr. J. W. Bowlby, designated by the governor to perform the duties,
								the influx of recruits was so great that for a few days it was necessary to provide
									
								
									COMPANY C.
								
								 for their maintenance by going into camp at the
								fair grounds of the Shelby County Joint Stock Agricultural Association. To this
								project the citizens of Shelbyville responded most liberally in the donation of
								supplies, and a handsome cash balance was given the company, the net proceeds of a
								festival and bazar given under the supervision of about thirty of Shelbyville's best
								known young ladies. This was followed by a reception tendered the company by the
								Epworth League of the First Methodist Episcopal church, of Shelbyville, in the
								parlors of that edifice. A deplorable accident occurred just following the receipt
								of the information that the services of the company would be accepted. It having
								been agreed upon that Strong's Light Artillery, an organization within the Sons of
								Veteran's Encampment, of Shelbyville, should be the first to herald the information,
								on the day of its receipt they repaired to a spot just beyond the city limits, and
								while engaged in firing a specified number of volleys a premature discharge of their
								piece, an old cannon used in the Civil war, resulted in the loss of an arm to Warren
								Haehl and a mutilated hand to Wilber Smith, members of the battery. The departure of
								the company for Camp Mount, on July 2, was the occasion of a demonstration witnessed
								only in times of war, when home ties are broken and the pride of a household takes
								his departure from home and friends, probably never to return. The scene with its
								attendant incidents are best portrayed in the following clipping from the
								Shelbyville Republican, of that date:
							
								"The company of which Thomas J. Hudgins is captain, George E. Goodrich, first
									lieutenant, and I. L. Reynolds, second lieutenant, finished its recruiting last
									evening and this morning marched in from the fair ground. Mechanic street was
									decorated from Vine to Harrison and as the boys marched along the people cheered
									them along. Harrison 
									
										NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS, COMPANY C.
									
									 street to the public square was decorated and the
									square and East Washington street to the station was almost a mass of flags. As
									the company neared the square they were met by the colored boys' "drum" corps. On
									the south side of the square the company was joined by the Grand Army of the
									Republic, the Strong Light Artillery and the Rex Zouaves, The column being formed
									with the Grand Army men at the post of honor, the Modern Woodman band in the lead,
									the march was taken up to the station. Washington street was simply a mass of
									people, the boys being given an ovation they will never forget. Warren Haehl, who
									lost his arm last week, was propped in bed and placed at the window so he could
									see the procession and as it passed it cheered and cheered and cheered. The
									recognition brought tears to the eyes of many. Two cars were on the side track in
									waiting, but the crush of people was so great that it was some minutes before the
									cars could be reached. When the doors were finally opened the soldier boys filed
									in and their friends after them. The jam was simply a crush. Women and strong men
									cried; mothers embraced their sons, sisters clung to their brothers and
									sweethearts made no attempt to check their tears. Hundreds and hundreds of people
									crowded along the cars to shake the hands of the boys and to give them a word of
									encouragement and advice. All this time the band was playing, the drums were
									beating and the Sons of Veterans were firing a salute.
								"As the train that was to carry the boys away entered the city, the factory
									whistles that had been blowing a perfect salvo during the morning, greeted the
									train with a welcome blast that was continued until the train was out of the city.
									After the usual stop at the station it required but a few minutes for the train to
									back down and take on the two extra cars. In another minute, the air being filled
										 with cheers, the waving of flags,
									handkerchiefs, the blasts of the whistles and the sound of musketry Shelbyville's
									first company in the war against Spain started for the front--a brave, gallant set
									of boys."
							
							The company, together with its friend, Hon. Sidney Conger, arrived at Camp Mount
								shortly after ten o'clock, having been tendered an ovation at all the villages along
								the route, and were immediately quartered in barn H. In the physical examination
								that followed over one hundred and twenty men met the requirements, a sufficient
								number were retained to recruit the company to its full war strength, one hundred
								and six enlisted men; the remainder were transferred to other companies not having
								the required number of men. The company was mustered into the service on the evening
								of July 11, being among the first to be thus administered the oath of allegiance. A
								few days later the company was presented with a handsome flag by a delegation of
								ladies and gentlemen of the Ladies Relief Corps, an auxiliary of Dumont Post No. --,
								G. A. R., of Shelbyville, representing the citizens of that city. The presentation
								speech was made in the presence of the company by Mr. John Byers, a veteran of the
								Civil war, and was feelingly responded to by Captain Hudgins. The corp itself gave
								to each member of the company a comb, whisk broom, towels, etc. This was followed a
								few days later by the presentation of a copy of the New Testament to each of the
								officers and men by Rev. L. A. Gould, of the First Baptist church, representing the
								churches of Shelbyville. The company's departure for Jacksonville, Florida, on
								August 11, was made the occasion of a monster demonstration in Shelbyville by reason
								of the fact that the special trains conveying the regiment passed through the city
									via the Big Four route.
							It is safe to assert that three-fourths of the citizens of  Shelbyville, blocked the streets for squares in all directions, bands
								played, salutes were fired and other tokens of the high esteem in which the company
								is held were manifest. During the stay of the regiment at Camp Cuba Libre, Company C
								suffered considerably from the prevailing maladies, and many of the sick men were
								compelled to succumb and go to the hospital, a great many never to rejoin their
								command. Being left behind at the time of the removal of the regiment to Savannah,
								Georgia, they were scattered in the various hospitals throughout the country and
								recovering from their illness were mustered out of the service after the regiment
								was sent to Cuba. During the interval when the sickness at Camp Cuba Libre was most
								marked, the relatives and friends of the boys at home forwarded by express a large
								amount of palatable delicacies and nutritious food best suited for the use of the
								ailing. The removal of the troops to Camp Onward marked a gradual improvement in the
								health of the company. This was also true of the period spent at Camp Columbia,
								Havana, when the general health was excellent. During its career in the service not
								a single death occurred in Company C, and during their entire stay in Cuba, with the
								exception of four or five days following their arrival, the company was on detached
								service as a special guard at General Lee's corps headquarters, and rejoined the
								regiment on its march to the docks to embark on the United States transport "Logan,"
								homeward bound.
						

						

						
							COMPANY C ROSTER.

							
								THOMAS J. HUDGINS, Captain, Shelbyville,
									Ind.
								GEORGE E. GOODRICH, 1st Lieut.,
									Shelbyville, Ind.
								Ivy L. REYNOLDS, 2d Lieut., Shelbyville,
									Ind.
							

							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Maddox, Robert C., 1st. Serg't, Shelbyville, Ind., Drug Clerk, discharged Nov.
									19, 1898.
								Parkison, Moses A., Shelbyville, Ind., Cabinetmaker, promoted to 1st Serg't
									Nov. 19, 1898.
								Hudgins. Robt. H., Jr., Q. M. Serg't, Shelbyville, Ind., Telegrapher.
								Hopkins, John S., Hariford, Maryland, Painter.
								Ballard, Walter B., Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk.
								Miles, Con L., Shelbyville, Ind., Furnisher, discharged March 31, 1899.
								Dickman, Joseph, Shelbyville, Ind., Upholsterer, promoted from Corp. to Serg't
									Dec. 3, 1898, discharged January 27, 1899.
								Alexander, Earl, Indianapolis, Ind., Pressman, promoted Serg't from Corp. Feb.
									7, 1899.
								Wilson, Major, Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk, promoted Serg't from Corp. April 5,
									1899.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Kuntz, Mathias, Shelbyville, Ind., Harnessmaker.
								Vanarsdall, Elmer, Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer, promoted to Corp. Jan. 25,
									1899.
								Davis, Edwin F., Workland, Ind., Stationary Engineer.
								Ray, John T., Hope, Ind., Farmer.
								Matthews, James G., Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer, discharged Dec. 22,
									1899.
								Vanpelt, Downey, Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk.
								Dale, George H., Jamestown, Ind., School Teacher, promoted to corporal Feb. 7,
									1899.
								Goodrich, Charles, Shelbyville, Ind., Painter, promoted to Corporal Feb. 12,
									1899.
								King, William F., Shelbyville, Ind., Cabinetmaker, appointed Corporal October
									31, 1898.
								Law, Eugene E., Shelbyville, Ind., Welldriller, promoted to Corp. Aug. 1,
									1898.


								

								Leffler, Fay, Shelbyville, Ind., Upfitter, appointed Corp. Dec. 8,
									1898.
								Oaks, Bert, Edinburg, Ind., Finisher, appointed Corp. Dec. 3, 1898.
								Roemerman, Chris., Shelbyville, Ind., Factory Hand, promoted to Corp. Aug. 8,
									1898, Jan. 14, 1899.
								Wiles, Miller, Shelbyville, Ind., Varnisher, promoted to Corp. April 5,
									1899.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Michelsen, William A., Shelbyville, Ind., Barber.
							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								Moore, Wiley F., Shelbyville, Ind., Blacksmith, transferred from Artificer to
									Musician, Aug. 8, 1898.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Cummins, Walter, Indianapolis, Ind., Fireman, discharged Nov. 4, 1898.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Beard, Otto, Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer, discharged Feb. 6, 1899.
								Bounsall, William H., Unionville, N. Y., Painter, discharged Jan. 30,
									1899.
								Byers, John, Shelbyville, Ind., Polisher.
								Carson, Arthur, Shelbyville, Ind., Painter, assigned company cook Feb. 21;
									1899, relieved as cook April 10, 1899.
								Chesser, Marshall, Winterowd, Ind., Carpenter, made artificer Aug. 8,
									1898.
								Chueden, Albert, Shelbyville, Ind., Painter, reduced to ranks Aug. 8,
									1898.
								Clark, Harry, Indianapolis, Ind., Barber.
								Collins, William, Shelbyville, Ind., Machinist, discharged Jan. 26,
									1899.
								Comstock, John, Shelbyville, Ind., Plasterer.
								Cooper, John, Shelbyville, Ind., Metalworker, assigned company cook April 10,
									1899.

								

								Cosler, Curtis, Shelbyville, Ind., Bicycle Polisher, discharged Feb. 6,
									1899.
								Cutsinger, Henry, Shelbyville, Ind., Engineer.
								Dale, August M., Jamestown, Ind., Farmer.
								Davis, Larue, Shelbyville, Ind., Cabinetmaker.
								Dickman, John, Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk.
								Didlein, Herman A., Indianapolis, Ind., Bookkeeper.
								Ditsch, Frank, Indianapolis, Ind., Textile Worker.
								Ebner, Edward, Indianapolis, Ind., Varnishmaker.
								Ellis, Fred, Anderson, Ind., Lather, appointed Wagoner Oct. 31, 1898.
								Evans, John, Shelbyville, Ind., Painter, discharged Feb. 15, 1899.
								Feaster, Ora, Shelbyville, Ind., Bandsawyer.
								Feaster, Wilber, Shelbyville, Ind., Machine hand.
								George, Horace, Indianapolis, Ind., Plumber.
								Gregg, Charles E., Indianapolis, Ind., Waiter, deserted Sept. 10, 1898,
									discharged without honor Nov. 4, 1898.
								Hietand, John F., Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer.
								Hendrickson, True, Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer, discharged Feb. 27, 1899.
								Hilt, Henry, Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer.
								Itce, John, Shelbyville, Ind., Gardener.
								Johnson, Camden A., Oakland, Ind., Farmer, discharged Jan. 11, 1899.
								Johnson, George S., Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer.
								Jolliff, Finley, Flatrock, Ind., Farmer.
								Kelly, Austin U., Indianapolis, Ind., Waiter.
								Lane, Harry, Shelbyville, Ind., Finisher.
								Law, George, Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer, discharged Jan. 14, 1899.
								Louden, Charles A., Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk.
								Ludwig, John M., Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Madden, Charles H., Indianapolis, Ind., Bookkeeper, discharged March 21,
									1899.
								Mitchell, Charles, Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer.




								

								Mott, Charles G., Shelbyville, Ind., Laborer, deserted Oct. 16, 1898.
								Morris, Leroy, Shelbyville, Ind., Painter, discharged Jan. 25, 1899.
								Omsted, Edward, Edinburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Osborn, William, Mount Vernon, Ind., Wood Turner.
								Parrish, George W., Shelbyville, Ind., Hardwood Finisher.
								Perkins, Omer E., Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								Perry, Andrew J., Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer, discharged Feb. 2, 1899.
								Perry, Howard, Lawrence, Ind., Teamster.
								Palmer, Marshall, Fairland, Ind., Farmer, discharged March 20, 1899.
								Prosser, Ora, Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Price, Ira J., Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer.
								Roberts, William, Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk, discharged May 4, 1899.
								Roth, Robert, Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk.
								Runyon, James, Shelbyville, Ind., Laborer.
								Rupert, Frank, Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer.
								Stittsworth, Ora, Louisville, Ind., Farmer.
								Schacherer, Louis, Shelbyville, Ind., Factory Hand.
								Schumaker, William, Sunman, Ind., Merchant.
								Shipley, George, Indianapolis, Ind., Painter.
								Simms, Thomas, Shelbyville, Ind., Teamster.
								Sieg, John, Flatrock, Ind., Farmer, deesrted Dec. 10, 1898.
								Sims, Everet, Indianapolis, Ind., Tinner.
								Smith, John A., Shelbyville, Ind., Laborer.
								Spice, Arthur, Huntington, Ind., Glassworker.
								Southern, Harry J., Indianapolis, Ind., Moulder, deserted Sept. 8, 1898,
									discharged without honor Nov. 21, 1898.
								Steely, John, Indianapolis, Ind., Machinist, discharged Aug. 19, 1898.
								Titus, Joseph R., Winterowd, Ind., Carpenter, discharged at Wintetowd, Ind.,
									March 1, 1899.
								Towns, Arthur, Shelbyville, Ind., Mechanic.

								

								Vaught, Fred, Shelbyville, Ind., Mechanic, discharged Sept. 29, 1898.
								Wheeler, Jerry, Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer.
								Westerfield, Commodore, Manilla, Ind., Engineer.
								Wiles, Robert, Jr., Shelbyville, Ind., Finisher.
								Wilson, William W., Shelbyville, Ind., Cabinetmaker, discharged Feb. 17,
									1899.
								Williams, James A., Shelbyville, Ind., Farmer, discharged March 16,
									1899.
								Winterowd, Floyd, Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Woods, George, Smithland, Ind., Farmer.
								Worland, Frank, Shelbyville, Ind., Gardener.
								Worland, Maurice, Shelbyville, Ind., Plumber.
								Wycoff, Oscar, Edinburg, Ind., Laborer.
								Youngman, Leon E., Shelbyville, Ind., Carpenter.
							

							
								LATER ENLISTMENTS.
								Molder, William, Shelbyville, Ind., Furnituremaker, enlisted Aug. 9,
									1898.
								Vanpelt, George W., Shelbyville, Ind., Clerk, enlisted Aug. 10, 1898.
								Kloer, Arthur, Terre Haute, Ind., Clerk, enlisted Dec. 9, 1898.
							

							
								TRANSFERRED.
								Hamm, Michael, Vincennes, Ind., Butcher, transferred from Co. A, 159th Ind.
									Vol. Inf., Dec. 1, 1898.
								Kopp, John G., Evansville, Ind., Barber, transferred from Co. E, 159th Ind.
									Vol. Inf., Dec. 1, 1898.
								Burke, John, Vincennes, Ind., Student, transferred from Co. L, 159th Ind. Vol.
									Inf., Dec. 1, 1898.
								McCrisaken, James, Vincennes, Ind., Butcher, transferred from Co. L, 159th
									Ind. Vol. Inf., Dec. 1, 1898.
								Soden, Charles, Vincennes, Ind., Laborer, transferred from Co. L, 159th Ind.
									Vol. Inf., Dec. 1, 1898.
								Coats, William T., Shelbyville, Ind., Student, transferred from. Co. K, 161st
									Ind. Vol. Inf., Jan. 26, 1899.
							
						
					


					

					

						
						COMPANY G.

						

						
							ALBERT D. OGBORN.

							Captain Albert D. Ogborn was born on a farm in Wayne county, Indiana, in 1864, and
								spent the first eighteen years of his life there. He was educated in the common
								schools, graduating therefrom at thirteen. In January, 1883, he removed to Newcastle
								and worked for a firm 
									CAPTAIN ALBERT D. OGBORN.
								
								 dealing in farm implements and later for a dealer
								in shoes. During this time he educated himself as a stenographer. In November, 1887,
								he was appointed storekeeper of the Northern Indiana Hospital for Insane at
								Logansport. He gave up this position in April, 1889, to accept that of official
								shorthand reporter for the judicial circuit in which he resides. While a court
								reporter he found time to study law. He was admitted to the bar in 1894, and is now
								practicing law in connection with court reporting. He has been deeply interested in
								military affairs from boyhood, and for ten years before entering the army was an
								enthusiastic worker in the Uniform Rank Knights of Pythias. He is colonel of the
								Third Indiana Regiment in this organization, having been granted an unlimited leave
								of absence to enter the army. Captain Ogborn is unmarried.
						

						

						
							JAMES I. MEYERS.

							First Lieutenant James I. Meyers first saw light in Wells county, Indiana, in
								September, 1864. He was educated at the schools of the city of Bluffton. He learned
								the baker's trade and followed it for several years. In 1887 he removed to Newcastle
								and was engaged in the restaurant business there when he entered the army. He
								received the practical knowledge of things military possessed by him when he
								enlisted, in the Uniform Rank, Knights of Pythias; and resigned the captaincy of
								Newcastle company in that organization when he became a soldier. He is married and
								has a fine family of three children.

							

							
								FIRST LIEUTENANT JAMES I. MEYERS.
							
						

						

						
							CHARLES M. PITTMAN.

							Second Lieutenant Charles M. Pittman was born in Newcastle, in 1874, and was
								educated in the schools of that city, graduating from the high school in 1892. While
								in school he was agent for a city newspaper, the daily edition of which he delivered
								to his patrons. For a time after leaving school he was engaged with his father in
								the farm machinery business. Later he began the study of civil engineering and was
								engaged in the practice of that profession when he entered the army. He lives with
								his parents and is unmarried.


							


							
								SECOND LIEUTENANT CHARLES M. PITTMAN.
							

						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY G.

							In the Civil war Henry county sent as many soldiers to the front as any county in
								Indiana in proportion to its population; and one of them, the venerable William
								Grose, came back a major-general. The bravery and patriotism of these men, proven on
								a hundred battlefields, descended to their sons. When the Spanish students tore down
								the American flag in Barcelona in 1895, Captain Ogborn sent the following message to
								Governor Matthews: "If Spain insists upon being whipped, I desire a commission to
								raise 
								
									COMPANY G.
								
								 a company in Henry county to help to do it." When
								the Maine was destroyed he again tendered his services to Indiana's governor,
								believing that war was inevitable. Before the, formal declaration of war and
								afterwards he begged the governor to accept his services in any capacity in which
								they might be thought useful.
							When the first call for volunteers was made many young men of Henry county went to
								Indianapolis and tried to get in the service, some of them succeeding; among them
								was Lieutenant Charles W. Pittman. Believing that a second call would be made, and
								that if it were, a company could get in from Henry county, Captain Ogborn and
								Lieutenant Myers began to organize a company in anticipation thereof, and were
								afterward joined by Lieutenant Pittman. One hundred and thirty names were enrolled,
								a majority from Newcastle, the remainder all from Henry county; drilling was kept up
								in the face of long delay, and the quiet opposition of the "Peace at any price"
								element. Young men who drilled faithfully were sneered at by apron string slaves,
								too lazy and too cowardly to enlist or drill. The turning point was reached one
								night in June, when the ears of a small band of the faithful who were drilling in
								the street were greeted by the "Rogues March" whistled by some one in a barber shop;
								the squad was wheeled and lined up along the sidewalk, and a demand made for the
								offender. He finally admitted his identity; and was warned that it would not be safe
								for him or any other person to ridicule any one who had enlisted in the company.
								From that hour the tide was with the volunteers.
							When the company was finally ordered to appear for their preliminary examination,
								to their shame be it said, over thirty of the men enlisted showed the white feather;
								ten of the remainder, including some of the best fellows 
								
									SERGEANTS, COMPANY G.
								
								 alive, were rejected, some other good men yielded
								to the entreaties of their families and withdrew. In this emergency the captain
								turned to Muncie, from where an eloquent appeal for opportunity to enlist had come
								from First Sergeant Fred W. Puckett. He and about thirty other Delaware county men,
								including as good soldiers as ever wore the blue, were finally accepted and have
								done much to make the fine record of the company what it is. When the examinations
								begun, committees of patriotic citizens arranged for the entertainment of the men,
								and during the four days which elapsed before the company started for Indianapolis
								did everything possible to make them comfortable. The examinations began at 10
								o'clock A. M. on June 27th, and ended at 1 P. M. on the 29th. The captain telephoned the
								governor that he had one hundred and nine men accepted by the local surgeon.
							On the morning of July 1st, every business house in the city was closed and a great
								crowd gathered in the public square where patriotic speeches were made by leading
								citizens and some of the orators in the company. Each man was given a slight token
								of the friendship of the citizens of New Castle. A great procession, headed by a
								band and composed of the G. A. R. Post, Uniform Rank Knights of Pythias and hundreds
								of citizens, escorted the company to the station, and the train bearing it left the
								city followed by the cheers of five thousand people who had assembled there.
							The sincere goodwill of the citizens of New Castle toward the company was further
								shown by their presentation to each of the three officers of a handsome sword.
							The company was the fourth to arrive at Indianapolis and the first one ready to be
								mustered. It was mustered in on July 12, 1898.


							

							
								CORPORALS, COMPANY G.
							
						

						

						
							COMPANY G ROSTER.

							
								ALBERT D. OGBORN, Captain, New
									Castle.
								JAMES I. MEYERS, 1st Lieutenant, New
									Castle.
								CHARLES M. PITMAN, 2nd Lieutenant, New
									Castle.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Puckett, Fred W., 1st Serg't., Muncie, Ind., Medical Student, mustered as
									private July 27, 1898, appointed 1st Serg't Aug. 1, 1898.
								Owens, Charles B., Franklin, Ind., Grocer.
								Engle, T. William, Indianapolis, Ind., Printer, transferred to Hospital Corps
									U. S. A, Aug. 20, 1898.
								Welsbacher, John, Meadville, Pa., Glass Blower.
								Martin, Albert O., Muncie, Ind., Dental Student, mustered as Corp. July 12,
									1898, appointed Serg't Mar. 20, 1899.
								Eilar, Benjamin W., Newcastle, Ind., Bridge Builder, appointed Corp. Dec. 20,
									1898, appointed Serg't Feb. 17, 1899.
								Luther, E. Murray, Q. M. Serg't., Blountsville. Ind., Clerk, mustered as Corp.
									July 13, 1898, appointed Q. M. Serg't Dec. 22, 1899.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Keesling, Ray, Mechanicsberg, Ind., Clerk.
								McKimmey, Linley W., Muncie, Ind., Engineer.
								Elliott, George H., Me hanicsburg. Ind., Well Driller.
								Fadely, Joseph H., Honey Creek, Ind., Farmer.
								Gontner, Charles R., Muncie, Ind., Salesman.
								Baldwin, Ellwood L., Spiceland, Ind., Farmer.
								Nugent, Harry S., Kennard, Ind., Editor.
								Allen, Alonzo, Muncie, Ind., Bartender, transferred to Hospital Corps, U. S.
									Army, Aug. 20, 1898.
								Goddard, Joseph, Middletown, Ind., Glass Blower, appointed Corp. Dec. 20,
									1898.
								Gaddis, Max P., New Castle, Ind., Cook, appointed Corp. Dec. 29, 1898.


								

								Shellenbarger, Charles, Muncie, Ind., Laborer, appointed Corp. Feb. 17,
									1899.
								Robinson, Elmer, Franklin, Ind., Laborer, appointed Corp. Mar. 20,
									1899.
								Baxley, Robert F., Princeton, Ind., Laborer, transferred from 159th I. V. I.,
									Dec. 1, 1898, and appointed Corp. Dec. 29, 1898.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								VanDyke, Henry W., Lewisville, Ind., Blacksmith, discharged Mar. 17,
									1899.
								Beeson, Edward, Dalton, Ind., Farmer.
							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								Hutchens, Huston, New Castle, Ind., Mechanic.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Livezey, Oscar, Newcastle, Ind., Farmer.
							

							
								COOK.
								Snider, Daniel Vorhees, Muncie, Ind., appointed Company Cook Oct. 10,
									1898.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Akers, Joseph,Middletown, Ind.,Glassblower, discharged Feb. 6, 1899.
								Barnett, Guy, Newcastle, Ind., Plasterer.
								Barnes, Henry, Muncie, Ind., Finisher.
								Bock, Claud, Newcastle, Ind., Laborer.
								Brown, Roy W., Newcastle, Ind., Drum Major, transferred to band Aug. 27,
									1898.
								Buckley, Guy, Newcastle, Ind., Laborer.
								Canaday, James, Newcastle, Ind., Laborer.
								Cecil, Fred P., Muncie, Ind., Student.
								Darling, Alva, Spiceland, Ind., Farmer.
								Darnell, Harry C., Indianapolis, Ind., Student.
								Davenport, Frank N., Newcastle, Ind., Painter.

								

								Detrich, George Carlos, Muncie, Ind, Bottler, discharged Sept. 28,
									1898.
								Dolan, John, Cambridge City, Ind., Fireman, transferred to Hospital Corps, U.
									S. Army, Aug. 20. 1898.
								Faulkner, Henry, Muncie, Ind., Laborer, discharged Jan. 18, 1899.
								Filson, James Leroy, New Lisbon, Ind., Sawyer.
								Fisher, Frank W., Newcastle, Ind., Ball Player.
								Frazee, Walker, Byers, Ohio, School Teacher.
								Freeman, Perry, Muncie, Ind., Laborer.
								Freeland, Thomas, New Lisbon, Ind., Farmer.
								Foster, Frank, Spiceland, Ind., Farmer.
								Goodman, Bud, Muncie, Ind., Laborer.
								Hale, Frank, Springport, Ind., Farmer.
								Hale, Thomas T., Dublin, Ind., Farmer.
								Halfaker, Edgar B., Franklin, Ind., Blacksmith, discharged Aug. 22,
									1898.
								Hamilton, Frank M., Newcastle, Ind., Dentist.
								Hamilton, Benton F., Greensboro, Ind., Clerk.
								Hanna, John W., Ft. Worth, Texas, Laborer.
								Harper, Charles, Indianapolis, Ind., Ironworker.
								Hickman, Herbert H., Springport, Ind., Farmer, discharged Mar. 18,
									1899.
								Holton, Hoyt A., Indianapolis, Ind., Printer, discharged Jan. 12, 1899.
								Huddleston, Arthur A., Dublin, Ind., Tinner.
								Irwin, George, New York City, N. Y., Broommaker.
								Israel, William G., Franklin, Ind., Farmer.
								Jackson, Solomon, Franklin, Ind., Laborer.
								Lamb, Oltie F., Dalton, Ind., Blacksmith.
								Lane, Fred, Mooreland, Ind., Farmer.
								Leech, J. Morris, F., Muncie. Ind., Decorator, transferred to Hosp. Corps Aug.
									20, 1898.
								Leonard, John M., Muncie, Ind., Wheelworker.
								Leonard, Arthur, Muncie, Ind., Rougher.
								Lykens, Sebastian, Spiceland, Ind., Laborer.
								McCoy, Charles, Muncie, Ind., Bricklayer.

								

								McCoy, Clarence, Muncie, Ind., Laborer, discharged Sept. 27, 1898.
								Martin, Henry C., Jr., Muncie, Ind., Laborer, discharged Feb. 17, 1899.
								Martindale, George, Hagerstown, Ind., Photographer.
								Miller, James W., New Castle, Ind., Clerk.
								Mitchell, Lemuel, Middletown, Tinplateworker.
								Morgan, Cliff, Greensburg, Ind., Farmer.
								Netz, Charles, Ashland., Ind., Farmer.
								Newby, Otis, Greensboro, Ind., Miller.
								Newby, George W., Greensboro, Ind., Farmer.
								Nichols, Noah A., Honey Creek, Ind., Jockey.
								Paul, John J., Muncie, Ind., Glassworker.
								Pierson, Joseph M., Muncie, Ind., Laborer, discharged Dec. 22, 1898.
								Prager, James M., Seattle, Wash., Prospector, transferred to Hosp. Corps, U.
									S. A., January 9, 1899.
								Rawlins, Winfield, Byers, Ohio, Mining.
								Reece, Benjamin F., Muncie, Ind., Wheelworker.
								Rogers, ,Paul, Muncie, Ind., Hatter, mustered as 1st Serg't July 12, 1898, by
									his own request was reduced to ranks July 31, 1898.
								Rothbaust, Jesse, Franklin, Ind., Laborer, discharged Feb. 8, 1899.
								Sears, Walton D., Spiceland, Ind., Laborer.
								Sherer, Albert, Muncie, Ind., Laborer.
								Shuee, Edward C., Muncie, Ind., Laborer.
								Swaim, Clarence T., Dublin, Ind., Clerk.
								Sweezy, John, Franklin, Ind., Laborer.
								Wahl, John, Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Walden, Edgar Otis, Muncie, Ind., Glassworker.
								Wilmuth, Arthur, Kennard, Ind., Laborer.
								Wilson, John W., Muncie, Ind., Glassworker.
								Winnings, Mark, Ashland, Ind., Laborer.
								Winnings, Walter A., Ashland, Ind., Laborer.
								Wintersteen, Minor, New Castle, Ind., Farmer.


								

								Wolfe, Edwin, Mooreland, Ind., Laborer, discharged Feb. 10, 1899.
								Woods, Harry, Dublin, Ind., Farmer.
								Yates, Ira O., Middletown, Ind., Laborer, discharged March 17, 1899.
							

							
								LATER ENLISTMENTS.
								Green, Oscar, Muncie, Ind., Machinist, mustered Aug. 8, 1898.
								King, Fred C., Muncie, Ind., Carpenter, mustered Aug. 8, 1898.
								Reynolds, Clyde B., Hagerstown, Ind., Farmer, mustered Aug. 8, 1898,
									discharged Jan. 19, 1899.
								Sheller, Charles, Muncie, Ind., Carpenter, mustered Aug. 8, 1898.
								Sherman, William A., Middletown, Ind., Laborer, mustered Aug. 8, 1898.
								Armstrong, John L., Princeton, Ind., Farmer, transferred from 159th I. V. I.,
									Dec. 1, 1898.
								Hogue, Edward H., Princeton, Ind., Laborer, transferred from 159th I. V. I.,
									Dec. 1, 1898.
								Malone, Clarence A., Princeton, Ind., Butcher, transferred from 159th I. V.
									I., Dec. 1, 1898.
								Robinson, Floyd W., Larwell, Ind., Machinist, transferred from 159th I. V. I.,
									Dec. 1, 1898.
								Newsum, Fred B., Patoka, Ind., Miner, transferred from 159th I. V. I. Dec. 1,
									1898.
								Turnage, George W., Princeton, Ind., Laborer, transferred from 159th I. V. I.,
									Dec. 1, 1898; discharged Feb. 3, 1899.
								Warren, Benjamin F., Evansville, Ind., Farmer, transferred from 159th I. V. I.
									Dec. 1, 1898.
								Wolfe, Walter G., Evansville, Ind., Blacksmith, transferred from 159th I. V.
									I. Dec. 1, 1898.
								Taylor, Eugene B., Carmi, Ill., Mechanic, transferred from Regimental Band
									Dec. 22, 1898.
							
						
					

					

					
						COMPANY H.

						

						
							JAMES M. GWINN.

							Captain James M. Gwinn was born at Burlington, Carroll county, Indiana, in 1847. He
								gave up completing his education to enter the Civil war, enlisting in July, 1863, 
									CAPTAIN JAMES M. GWINN.
								 as a private in the One Hundred and Sixteenth Indiana, from which he was
								discharged the March following. In December, 1864, he re-enlisted in the Forty-sixth
								Indiana, and was mustered out September 4, 1865. He participated in five engagements
								during his term of service, the  principal ones of
								which were Bull's Gap, Tazewell and Walker's Ford. After the war he farmed for a
								time, but for the last twenty years has been engaged in the livery business at
								Rushville.
						

						

						
							HENRY B. PATTON.

							Henry B. Patton, first lieutenant Company H, was born near Spring Hill, Decatur
								county, Indiana. His youth was spent on the farm. At an early age he removed with
								his parents to Rush county, where he has since 
									FIRST LIEUTENANT HENRY B. PATTON.
								
								 resided. He attended the common schools near his
								home and afterward attended DePauw University, graduating with the class of '94. He
								served as deputy clerk of the Rush circuit court for three years, resigning his
								position to accept a commission as second lieutenant. When the regiment went to Camp
								Cuba Libre he was appointed aide-de-camp to General L. F. Hubbard, commanding Third
								Division, Seventh Army Corps, serving in that capacity until the division was
								abolished, pending General Hubbard's retirement, when he was returned to his
								company. He was commissioned first lieutenant August 28, 1898, vice John F. Joyce,
								resigned.
						

						

						
							GEORGE H. CALDWELL.

							George H. Caldwell, second lieutenant Company H, One Hundred and Sixty-first
								Indiana Volunteer Infantry, is a native of Rushville, Indiana. His boyhood and early
								manhood were spent on a farm near that city. He was educated in the common schools
								and at the age of seventeen was licensed as a teacher, which pursuit he followed for
								two years. At the expiration of that time and for ten years following he was
								employed as a clerk in a dry goods store at Rushville. For a number of years since
								that time he has acted as a traveling salesman in the same line. He enlisted in
								Company H as a private, but was appointed first sergeant at the final organization
								at Indianapolis. On August 28th he was commissioned second lieutenant by the
								governor of Indiana to fill a vacancy caused by the resignation of Lieutenant Joyce.
								He is a Republican in politics and a member of Ivy Lodge No. 27, Knights of
								Pythias.


							

							
								SECOND LIEUTENANT, GEORGE H. CALDWELL.
							
						

						

						
							COMPANY H HISTORY.

							Company H was organized at Rushville by Captain Gwinn and Lieutenant Joyce, who had
								each previously raised companies and tried to secure recognition on the first call
								for volunteers. Realizing that it would be necessary to combine their forces in
								order to secure recognition, the companies were united, Lieutenant Joyce agreeing to
								accept second place in consideration of Captain Gwinn's previous service.
							The company at once began drilling, and having been 
								
									COMPANY H.
								
								 assured of a place in the new regiment to be
								organized, it went into camp at the fair grounds on June 20th, remaining there ten
								days until ordered to Camp Mount, being the first one to arrive there. It was
								mustered into the service on July 12, 1898. It is composed principally of Rush
								county men, although quite a number of other counties throughout the state are
								represented, the principal one being Fayette.
						

						

						
							COMPANY H ROSTER.
							
								GWINN, JAMES M., Captain--Rushville,
									Ind., Liveryman.
								JOYCE, JOHN F., 1st
									Lieutenant--Rushville, Ind., Lawyer; resigned; resignation accepted Aug. 30, 1898,
									at Jacksonville, Fla., ill health.
								PATTON, HENRY B., 1st
									Lieutenant--Richland, Ind., Clerk, promoted from 2d Lieutenant Sept. 8,
									1898.
								CALDWELL, GEORGE H., 2d Lieutenant,
									Rushville, Ind., Farmer, promoted from 1st Sergeant Sept. 10, 1898.
							

							
								SERGEANTS.
								Caldwell, Joseph J., Rushville, Ind., Watchman.
								Comstock, Charles E., Lyons, Iowa, Druggist.
								Hunt, Geston P., Orange P. O., Clerk.
								Wolfe, Charles E., Rushville, Ind., Musician.
								Stiers, Edgar, Richland, Ind., School Teacher.
								Ailes, Jesse W., Stipps Hill, Ind., Farmer, promoted to Corp. Aug. 23, 1898,
									promoted to Serg't Dec. 31, 1898.
								Beale, Fred R., Rushville, Ind., Tailor, promoted to Corp. Dec. 27, 1898,
									promoted to Serg't Jan. 4, 1899.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Felts, Jacob D., Rushville, Ind., Cabinetmaker.
								Gross, Fred, Manilla, Ind., Clerk.
								Wertz, Harrison E., Arlington, Ind., Farmer.
								Johnson, Riley, Richland, Ind., Farmer.


								

								
									SERGEANTS, COMPANY H.
								


								

								Innis, John W., Rushville, Ind., Aeronaut, transferred to U. S. Vol. Signal
									Corps Dec. 1, 1898, per order Adjutant General's office
								Alexander, Fred., Rushville, Ind., Telegrapher, promoted to Corp. Dec. 27,
									1898.
								Caldwell, Robert G., Rushville, Ind., Student, promoted to Corp. Jan. 26,
									1899.
								Gardner, William E., Rushville, Ind., Farmer, promoted to Corp. Aug. 16,
									1898.
								Gilson, James, Rushville, Ind., Laborer, promoted to Corp. Jan. 26,
									1899.
								Hall, Harry H., Connersville, Ind., Clothing Clerk, promoted to Corp. Oct. 1,
									1898.
								Harry, Vernie, Richland, Ind., Farmer, promoted to Corp. Aug. 23, 1898.
								McCoy, Michael P., Rushville, Ind., Turner, promoted to Corp. Dec. 27,
									1898.
								Pearsey, Chase, Rushville, Ind., Heading Worker, promoted to Corp. Dec. 27,
									1898.
								Vieke, Edward C., Corporal, Vincennes, Ind., Cigarmaker, promoted to Corp.
									Dec. 27, 1898, transferrrd from 159th Ind. Vol. Inf., Nov. 23, 1898.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Huffman, Edward, Rushville, Ind., Musician, transferred to to 161st Reg. Band
									Aug. 23, 1898.
								Middleton, Basil, Connersville, Ind., Cabinetmaker.
								Jameson, Jesse K., Rushville, Ind., Blacksmith.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Miller, Charles, Rushville, Ind., Laborer.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Adams, James F., Rushville, Ind., Cook.
								Allenthorp, Ira, Arlington, Ind., Student, transferred to 161st Reg. Band Aug.
									23, 1898, transferred back to Co. Dec. 22, 1898.


								

								
									CORPORAL, COMPANY H.
								


								

								Armstrong, John H., Rushville, Ind., Artist.
								Armstrong, Joseph A., Jr., Rushville, Ind., Telegrapher, transferred to U. S.
									Vol. Signal Corps Sept. 8, 1898, per order Adjutant General's office.
								Baylor, Frank C., Rushville, Ind., Clerk.
								Baker, Arthur, Rushville, Ind., Laborer,
								Ball, William H., Rushville, Ind., Machinist.
								Bartlett, Orville, Rushville, Ind., Tinner.
								Boling, George W., Rushville, Ind., Printer.
								Bowne, Owen O., Rushville, Ind., Table Waiter, discharged by order Maj.-Gen.
									Lee, Sept. 27, 1898, for disability.
								Brown, Leslie B., Richland, Ind., Farmer.
								Burdock, Harry, 76 Clarkson St., New York City, N. Y., Mechanic.
								Cassady, Rue, Rushville, Ind., Laborer.
								Cauley, Anthony B., Rushville, Ind., Machinist.
								Davis, Harry W., Rushville, Ind., Laborer.
								Devers, Bert L., Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								Emmons, Harrie E., Rushville, Ind., Horseman.
								Fox, Bert, Arlington, Ind., Painter, discharged by order Maj.-Gen. Lee Feb.
									10, 1899, for disability.
								Francis, Fred. C., 68 Blaine ave., West Indianapolis, Ind., Tinner.
								Gable, Clyde C., Indianapolis,. Ind., Bedmaker, died in Ft. McPherson, Ga.,
									Hospital, Nov. 3, 1898, of typhoid fever, body interred at Union City, Ind.
								Geiger, Ira E., Rushville, Ind., Printer.
								Glass, John, Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								Glisson, Will, Connersville, Ind., Painter.
								Graves, Fred, Thorntown, Ind., Student.
								Greenlee, Earl, Rushville, Ind.
								Guire, Jesse W., Rushville, Ind., Drayman.
								Hambrock, Charles E., Manilla, Ind., Farmer.
								Hatfield, John W., Rushville, Ind., Laborer.
								Heaton, Clarence, Muncie, Ind., Laborer, transferred to 3rd Div. Hospital
									Corp, Aug. 20, 1898.
								Hilligoss, Oscar R., Rushville, Ind., Farmer.


								

								Hoffner, Charles S., Connersville, Ind., Painter.
								Holder, George, Connersville, Ind., Woodcarver.
								Jester, Cheniah F., Rushville, Ind., Sawyer.
								Jones, George B., Rushville, Ind., Physician, appointed Hospital Steward Sept.
									10, 1898.
								Kenner, Ralph H., Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								Klingworth, William, Rushville, Ind., Painter.
								Lindsay, Charles F., Price Hill, 8789 Warsaw ave., Cincinnati, Ohio,
									Painter.
								Lohrman, Walter, Indianapolis, Ind., Cabinetmaker.
								Levi, Harry C., Rushville, Ind., Laborer.
								McClain, Clinton, Rushville, Ind., Laborer.
								McCrory, Fred, Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								Marvin, Buford, Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								Mathews, Charles M., Rushville, Ind., Laborer.
								Miller, Clint M., Arlington, Ind., Barber.
								Mitchell, William T., Rushville, Ind., Drop-forger.
								Moore, Thomas C., Rushville, Ind., Veneer Layer.
								Mootz, Fredric, 1517 S. Reisner St., West Indianapolis, Ind., Baker.
								Morford, Irwin, Anderson, Ind., Farmer.
								Myers, Will, Connersville, Ind., Machinist.
								Newbor, Charles A., Clarksburg, Ind., Horseman.
								Newman, William G., Rushville, Ind., Poultry Dresser.
								Norris, Frank, Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								O'Day, James, Rushville, Ind., Painter.
								Owsley, Carl W., Thorntown, Ind., Student.
								Palmes, Ira H., Rushville, Ind., Electrician.
								Parker, Ralph C., 880 Broadway, Indianapolis, Ind., Student, discharged Sept.
									21, 1898, for disability, by order Secretary of War.
								Perkins, Greely, Rushville, Ind., Tinner.
								Perkins, Jesse F., Rushville, Ind., Laborer, discharged April 21, 1899.
								Phillips, Joseph, Rushville, Ind., Machinist.
								Plummer, George A., Connersville, Ind., Carriage Trimmer.
								Pollett, Edward, Arlington, Ind., Laborer.


								

								Ragan, Ernest L., Connersville, Ind., Painter, discharged Sept. 27, 1898, for
									disability by order of Major-General Lee.
								Robertson, William H., Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								Rucker, Henry V., Arlington, Ind., Farmer, transferred to Regimental Band
									Sept. 8, 1898.
								Runk, Jacob J., Rushville, Ind., Stone Cutter.
								Seibel, Henry, Hamburg, Ind., Farmer.
								Shields, Robert H., Rushville, Ind., Farmer.
								Smith, Chinonie R., New Salem, Laborer.
								Smith, Lewis, Williston, O., Miner.
								Stiers, William M., Richland, Ind., Farmer.
								Stratton, Lemon M., Rushville, Ind., Timber Dealer.
								Vest, Charles, Rushville, Ind., Laborer.
								Wallace, Leven E., Rushville, Ind., Printer, transferred to 3rd Div. Hosp.
									Corps, Aug. 20, 1898, discharged Dec. 22, 1898, per order Adjutant General's
									office, at Josiah Simpson Gen'l Hospital.
								Wells, Dudley, Indianapolis, Ind., Machinist.
								Whalen, William T., Rushville, Ind., Teamster.
								Wilson, Harold E., Rushville, Ind., Student.
								Young, Monroe E., Richland, Ind., Farmer.
							

							
								TRANSFERRED FROM 159TH IND.
										VOL. INF., NOV. 23, 1898.
								Cassell, Don H., Private, Indianapolis, Ind., Clerk.
								Dodd, Edward L., Private, Rusellville, Ill., Farmer.
								Fedder, John H., Private, Bloomington, Ind., Filler.
								Lee, Harry, Private, Washington, Ind., Baker.
								Maher, William, Private, Washington, Ind., Hostler.
								McGahan, Claude, Private, Terre Haute, Ind., Cook, discharged April 22,
									1899.
								Thompson, Charles K., Private, Terre Haute, Ind, Laborer.
								Trimble, John W., Private, Evansville, Ind., Potter.
								Talbott, Gerald, Private, Gosport, Ind., Laborer.
								Vaughn, William H., Private, Vincennes, Ind., Student.
								Vance, Arlyn T., Private, Irvington, Ind., Student, mustered in Dec. 22,
									1898.


								


								Westfall, Walter, Private, Iona, Ind., Farmer.
								Harris, Isaac, Private, Washington, Ind., Farmer.
							

							
								LATER ENLISTMENTS--AUGUST
									9, 1898.
								Kendall, Robert, Private, Lewis Creek, Ind., Farmer.
								Bask, William, Private, New Castle, Ind., Laborer.
							
						
					

					

					
						COMPANY L.

						
							JAMES L. ANDERSON.

							James L. Anderson, captain of Company L, was born near Selma, Clark county, Ohio,
								July 2, 1850. He came with his parents to Warren county, Indiana, in 1853, where he
								resided until 1874. He took a business course in the Commercial College at Oberlin,
								Ohio, and a course in the School of Pharmacy at the University of Michigan, leaving
								there in 1877. He engaged in school teaching for several terms after returning to
								Indiana, and in 1879 went into the drug business in Montgomery county, Indiana. In
								November, 1880, he was united in marriage to Miss Florence M. McClure, at Wingate,
								Indiana. They have one child, Carl R. Anderson. In 1885 he sold out and went to
								Frankfort, Indiana, and went on the road for a commercial firm for a year, but
								returned to the drug business in 1887. In 1890 he sold out his business to accept a
								position as traveling salesman, and in 1895 was appointed as guard at the Indiana
								State Prison North, where he was employed when war was declared with Spain, and
								resigned his position to enter the service as captain of Company L. Captain Anderson
								is of English descent, his father's family settling in eastern Maryland and his
								mother's in old Virginia, and 
								
									CAPTAIN JAMES L. ANDERSON.
								 though of Quaker descent had five brothers in the Union army during the
								war of the Rebellion, and is a distant relative of Major Anderson, of Fort Sumter
								fame.
						

						

						
							ELI W. PETERSON.

							First Lieutenant Eli W. Peterson was born near Decatur, Indiana, in 1873. His
								parents moved to Decatur while he was an infant, and as he grew up he was educated
								there. In 1885 he emigrated with them to Mead Center,  Kansas, residing there three years. From there he went to Colorado, returning to
								Decatur in 1890. He entered the regular army in 1891, receiving an honorable
								discharge 
									FIRST LIEUTENANT ELI W. PETERSON.
								 three years later. Again, returning to Decatur, he went into the printing
								business, which he gave up after two years to accept a position as guard at the
								Indiana State Prison North, and which he resigned in order to accept his commission
								as lieutenant.
						

						

						
							CHARLES E. DORITY.

							Second Lieutenant Charles E. Dority, was born in Waterville, New York, in 1874,
								removing from there to Three Oaks, Michigan, in 1889. In 1896 he removed to 
									SECOND LIEUTENANT, C>HARLES E. DORITY.
								 Michigan City, Indiana, and entered the employ of Ford, Johnson & Co.,
								wholesale furniture manufacturers, remaining with them until he enlisted.
							On the trip to Jacksonville he was appointed provost marshal of the Third
								Battalion. His work proving satisfactory, he was at once detailed as assistant to
								Major Harrison, provost marshal of the Seventh Army
								Corps, which position he very creditably filled.
						

						

						
							HISTORY OF COMPANY L.

							Company L was organized at Michigan City, Indiana, at the beginning of hostilities
								between Spain and the United States. On May 1st, 1898, a meeting was held at which
								time the present officers were elected. Owing to its failure to be accepted on the
								first call many changes took place; many feeling that there would be but one call,
								left to join other organizations that had been accepted and had still many vacant
								places.
							This however, did not have a demoralizing effect as the company had many on its
								lists in excess of the required number. When it became apparent that the second call
								would be made, much enthusiasm was evinced and the organization gained many new
								members from all parts of Laporte county, and also a few from southern Michigan.
							On June 24th word was received by Captain Anderson of the acceptance of the company
								and also to prepare it for service.
							Immediately preparations were begun. Each member was subjected to a rigid
								examination which resulted in turning out a company of men who were perfect
								specimens of physical manhood. On July 1st the company was ordered to report at
								Indianapolis, which it did, leaving Michigan City, at 8 o'clock on the morning of
								July 2nd and arriving at Indianapolis about 2:30 o'clock of the same day. The
								company was taken to Camp Mount and quartered in one of the numerous buildings
								there. Preparations were immediately begun for the final examination and muster.
								While at Camp Mount a few more members were taken 
								
									COMPANY L.
								
								 into the company from Indianapolis and Bedford,
								Indiana. The final examination took place on Friday, July 8th and was followed on
								July 13th by being mustered into the service of the United States as full pledged
								soldiers.
						

						

						
							COMPANY L ROSTER.

							
								JAMES L. ANDERSON, Captain, Frankfort,
									Ind.
								ELI W. PETERSON, 1st Lieutenant,
									Decature, Ind.
								CHARLES L. DORITY, 2d Lieutenant,
									Michigan City, Ind.
							

							
								SERGEANTS,
								Cissel, Ernest W., Laporte, Ind., Printer.
								Ansley, Robert, Westville, Ind., Medical Student.
								Southard, William E., Michigan City, Ind., Plasterer.
								Brown, Arthur R., Lebanon, Ind., Clerk.
								McDonald, Joseph, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer.
							

							
								CORPORALS.
								Ongman, Carl, Michigan City, Ind., Carpenter.
								Dilworth, Leslie, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer.
								Kinnel, Howard M., Michigan City, Ind., Mechanic.
								Dodds, William L., Zelina, Ind., Railroad employe.
								Jackson, Henry B., Laporte, Ind., Printer, promoted from ranks Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Birjinski, Frank, Michigan City, Ind., Woodpolisher, pro moted from ranks,
									Aug. 20, 1898.
								Kalies, Charles T., Westville, Ind., Clerk, promoted from ranks Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Walton, Edward V., Wanatah, Ind.,, Painter, promoted from ranks Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Davidson, Reynolds, Michigan City, Ind., Tailor, promoted from ranks Aug. 20,
									1898.
								Hall, Henry M., Michigan City, Ind., Painter, promoted from ranks Aug. 20,
									1898.

								

								
									SERGEANTS, COMPANY L.
								

								

								Simpson, Washington W., Laporte, Ind., Laborer, promoted from ranks Dec. 21,
									1898.
								Fiffer, Fred., New York City, Shoemaker, promoted from ranks April 10,
									1899.
							

							
								MUSICIANS.
								Gorden, Albert, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer, appointed from ranks Aug. 1,
									1898.
								Thomas Edward, Brookville, Ind., Editor, transferred from 159th Ind., Nov. 23,
									1898.
							

							
								COOK.
								Schott, John P., Buffalo, N. Y., Jeweler, enlisted as cook Dec. 6, 1898, at
									Savannah, Ga.
							

							
								ARTIFICER.
								Renfro, Lorenzo D., Tree Oaks, Mich., Brickmason, appointed from ranks Aug.
									27, 1898.
							

							
								WAGONER.
								Chronister, Benjamin F., Laporte, Ind., Farmer, enlisted as wagoner.
							

							
								PRIVATES.
								Akers, William H., Paoli, Ind., Laborer.
								Babcock, Virgil P., Porter, Ind., Farmer.
								Babcock, Daniel D., Babcock, Ind., Farmer.
								Baldwin, Charles F., Michigan City, Ind., Blacksmith.
								Bays, George R., Three Oaks, Mich., Laborer.
								Bauman, Irvin, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer,
								Bello, Antonio, Michigan City, Ind., Marble cutter.
								Bottume, Gurdon, Laporte, Ind., Laborer.
								Campbell, Herbert, Indianapolis, Ind., Laborer.
								Closser, Paul M., Laporte, Ind., Farmer.
								Cole, Frank L., Westville, Ind., Laborer.
								Creider, Oliver P., Bedford, Ind., Quarryman.
								Cromey, Henry A., Valparaiso, Ind., Farmer.
								Cronin. Andrew, Westville, Ind., Farmer.


								

								
									CORPORALS, COMPANY
										L.
								



								

								Culbertson, Sant, Westville, Ind., Printer.
								Denny, William S., Michigan City, Iud., Painter.
								Dreblow, Louis H., San Pierre, Ind., Painter.
								Drewer, Winfred F., Laporte, Ind., Fireman.
								Feistel, Gustave W., Michigan City, Ind., Cabinetmaker
								Flewellen, Fred., Battle Creek, Mich., Farmer.
								Gassow, Charles, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer.
								Graves, Edward, Winamac, Ind., Laborer.
								Harness, Jason, Stillwell, Ind., Farmer.
								Harris, Allen C., Westville, Ind., Farmer.
								Haskins, Ernest, Niles, Mich., Laborer.
								Hawkins, George F., Westville, Ind., Farmer.
								Hixon, Warren H., Westville, Ind., Farmer.
								Hoff, Horace, Bedford, Ind., Mechanic.
								Hopkins, William, Michigan City, Ind., Fireman.
								Johnson, Edwin R., Bedford, Ind., Laborer.
								Kennedy, Joseph J., Michigan City, Ind., Laborer.
								Kernoodle, William, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer.
								Klingler, Emanuel G., Three Oaks, Mich., Farmer.
								Larson, August, Chesterton, Ind., Farmer.
								Lederer, Alexander, Evansville, Ind., Dentist.
								Lotridge, Henry G., Bloomington, Ind., Railroader.
								Low, Henry J., Three Oaks, Mich., Laborer.
								Lyons, Elza, Westville, Ind., Farmer.
								Mojensky, Joseph, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer.
								Mutch, Hubert, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer.
								McGinnis, Robert C., Westville, Ind., Laborer.
								Noakes, Willard L., Michigan City, Ind., Painter.
								Osborn, Gaylord, Wanatah, Ind., Farmer.
								Owens, Robert E., Bedford, Ind., Farmer.
								Pace, Frank, Bedford, Ind., Engineer.
								Palmateer, Wilber, Michigan City, Ind., Moulder.
								Rapp, Frank H., Otis, Ind., Laborer.
								Reynolds, Ray, Westville, Ind., Carpenter.
								Rittenour, William L., Union Mills, Ind., Farmer.
								Romepagle, Albert C., Laporte, Ind., Painter.
								Shaw, Charles F., Westville, Ind., Laborer.
								Sheffer, Charles E., Laporte, Ind., Laborer.

								

								Smith, Clarence, Seafield, Ind., Farmer.
								Smith, William F., Seafield, Ind., Farmer.
								Swan, Benjamin, Lake Station, Ind., Plasterer.
								Waggoner, George, Laporte, Ind., Laborer.
								Watkins, Edward W., Crawfordsville, Ind., Laborer.
								Will, Ernest, Michigan City, Ind., Barber.
								Wirth, Herman T., Waterford, Ind., Laborer.
								Youngblooth, Edmund, Pittsburgh, Pa., Laborer.
								Zuelke, August, Michigan City, Ind., Laborer.
							

							
								LATER ENLISTMENTS.
								Browne, Roy W., New Castle, Ind., Drum Major, transferred from band Jan. 1,
									1899.
								Carter, Howard, Epsom, Ind., Student, transferred from 159th Ind., Nov. 23,
									1899.
								Duree, William C., Br gton, Ind., Paper hanger, transferred from 159th Ind.,
									Nov. 23, 1898.
								Murphy, George H., Evansville, Ind., Potter, transferred from 159th Ind., Nov.
									23, 1898.
								McClintock, Harrie C., Buffalo, N. Y., Locomotive fireman, enlisted Dec. 6,
									1898, at Savannah, Ga.
								Schwaner, Robert T., Evansville, Ind., Clerk, transferred from 159th Ind.,
									Nov. 28, 1898.
								Willis, William G., Terre Haute, Ind., Paper Hanger, enlisted Dec. 10, 1898,
									at Savannah, Ga.
							

							
								DISCHARGED FOR DISABILITY AND OTHER CAUSES.
								Bloomhuff, John L., Union Mills, Ind., Carpenter, Aug. 22, 1898.
								Bonadore, Martin, Three Oaks, Mich., Farmer, January 8, 1899.
								Bowen, George, Stillwell, Ind., Farmer, March 20, 1899.
								Clark, Guy O., Union Mills, Ind., Tinner, March 10, 1899.
								Durbin, Sheldon M., Michigan City, Ind., Laborer, Nov. 21, 1898.
								Faris, William A., Fariston, Ky., Quarryman, Jan. 30, 1899.
								Felio, James E., Michigan City, Ind., Sailor, Nov. 3, 1898.
								Hamilton, Leroy, Westville, Ind., Laborer, April 4, 1899.


								

								Hittle, Benjamin F., Indianapolis, Ind., Decorator, Dec. 22, 1898.
								Hunt, James E., Rolling Prairie, Ind., Farmer, March 6, 1899.
								Lettan, Edward C., Michigan City, Ind., Laborer, Feb. 14, 1899.
								Long, William, Hobbyville, Ind., Quarryman, March 25, 1899.
								Maddox, John A., Bedford, Ind., Stonemason, Jan. 30, 1899.
								Massengill, James, Bedford, Ind., Laborer, Jan. 25, 1899.
								McMillan, George W., Union Mills, Ind., Farmer, March 6, 1899.
								Parkhurst, Curtis, Hamilton, Mich., Farmer, Feb. 27, 1899.
								Robe, Daniel, Galien, Mich., Laborer, Jan. 31, 1899.
								Spitzmesser, Nicholas B., Greensburg, Ind., Bookkeeper, Sept. 23, 1898.
								Young, Jacob W., Bedford, Ind., Quarryman, Jan. 13, 1899.
							

							
								TRANSFERRED.
								Leland, Charles M., Serg't, Michigan City, Ind., Painter, to Regimental band
									as band sergeant Jan. 9, 1899.
								Johanm, Frank, Corp., Union Center, Ind., Farmer, to Hospital Corps, Aug. 23,
									1898.
								Jones, John G. B., Laporte, Ind., Student, to Hospital Corps, Aug. 23,
									1898.
								Meissner, August, Laporte, Ind., Druggist, to Regimental Band, Aug. 23,
									1898.
								Paxton, George, Jr., Michigan City, Ind., Clerk, to Regimental Band, Aug. 23,
									1898.
								Reinhart, Walter W., Laporte, Ind., Laborer, to Regimental Band, Aug. 23,
									1898.
							

							
								DIED
								Leiter, Charles E., Gilboa, Ohio, Blacksmith, Oct. 17, 1898, in hospital at
									Jacksonville, Fla.
							

							
								DESERTED.
								Jones, William D., Three Oaks, Mich., Laborer, Oct. 16, 1898, at Jacksonville,
									Fla.
							
						
					
				


				

				
					MEDICAL DEPARTMENT


					

					
						MAJOR WICKLIFF SMITH.
					


					

					
						WICKLIFF SMITH

						Major Wickliff Smith is a self-made man; the fine reputation he has sustained as a
							physician and surgeon has been acquired by the greatest perseverance, under most
							adverse circumstances. He was born November 24, 1851, in Marion county, among the
							hills of West Virginia. His parents were well-to-do farmers and the young man began
							life's struggle with the grain of his makeup straightened and tempered by that
							training so peculiar to such environment. His early education was received in the
							country schools and later, in Jefferson College, Waynesburg, Pennsylvania. After his
							literary course he returned once more to the farm and here in the midst of his work
							spent his spare time in the study of medicine. His father's estate had been lost
							during the war, sickness laid hold upon them and the young man was facing the future
							with an extra heavy burden to bear. He succeeded in entering the Cincinnati Medical
							College in 1871, graduating three years later. After a very brief practice in Calida,
							Ohio, he went to Delphi, Indiana, where he has since resided, with a practice that has
							steadily grown until the demand upon his time was greater than he could meet. He is
							held in high esteem by the people of his place, and considered an authority in medical
							science the state over. To his careful attention to details of camp cleanliness and
							other sanitary conditions is due much of the healthfulness which has attended the
							regiment in which he served as surgeon. No man was more popular in the regiment than
							Major Smith, and his brave deportment in the threatened smallpox plague gained for him
							the admiration of every soldier that knew him. He will return to Delphi when mustered
							out.
					

					

					
						MILLARD F. GERRISH.

						First Lieutenant and Assistant Surgeon Millard F. Gerrish was born at Paris, Jennings
							county, Indiana, February 27, 1856. His father was a surgeon in the Sixty-seventh 
								FIRST LIEUTENANT MILLARD F. GERRISH.
							 Indiana during the Civil war. After finishing his preparatory studies, he
							entered the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania, where he graduated
							in and began the practice of his profession.


						

						He sacrificed a large practice to enter the volunteer service, and was commissioned
							first lieutenant and assistant surgeon, in June. Twice during the absence of the
							major-surgeon, October 5-15, he became acting surgeon in charge, and was found at all
							times faithful to his important commission, and to his untiring service must be
							credited much of the excellent health of his regiment.
						Lieutanents Gerrish and Wilson were appointed as medical examiners for the Fourth
							Virginia and Forty-ninth Iowa, on occasion of their preperation for muster out.
					

					

					
						JAMES WILSON.

						James Wilson, first lieutenant and assistant surgeon, was born at Wabash, Indiana, in
							1865, November 15. He was educated in Greencastle, Indiana, at DePauw University,
							after which he entered the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, from which
							institution he graduated in 1888. He repaired at once to New York city and entered
							Belleview Medical College, graduation from medical course in 1890. His professional
							studies being finished he engaged in practice of medicine in the city of his birth.
							Upon the second call for troops, he offered himself to the governor for service in the
							One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and was mustered in as
							assistant surgeon with the rank of first lieutenant in June. On August 26, he was
							detached from regiment and placed in charge of one of the wards of the Third Division
							hospital, at Jacksonville, from which position he was reluctantly released on October
							24, to rejoin his regiment, which was then starting for Savannah, Georgia.

						

						
							FIRST LIEUTENANT JAMES WILSON.
						
					

					

					
						HISTORY OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.

						This department of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana as organized in the
							beginning consisted of Surgeon-Major Wickliff Smith, of Delphi, Assistant Surgeon
							Lieutenants Millard F. Gerrish, of Seymour, and James Wilson, of Wabash, all eminent
							physicians of the state who were selected by the governor on account of their high  professional standing, and Hospital Stewards William H.
							Rathert, druggist and medical student of Indianapolis; Jas. G. Espey, druggist and
							medical student of Rising Sun, In- diana, and John I. Lewis, recent graduate physician
							of Bedford. A regiment could hardly have had a better equipment of men in the medical
							department. When the regiment was first mustered in at the state fair grounds it was
							thought unnecessary to organize a field hospital for the large healthy men then in
							camp and all cases were treated at their quarters for the first few weeks. But the
							surgeons had not much more than gotten through with their duties of finishing the
							mustering papers when they found a sick call of sufficient magnitude to preclude much
							idleness on their part and on the 6th of August a hospital was started in the upper
							story of the administration building. The quarters were very pleasant, being
							commodious and airy. Private Horace Lucas, of Company A, an experienced nurse, and
							Doctor Jones, then a private of Company H, were detailed to nurse and prepare the
							diet. Some cots, an old cook stove, tables and some other useful articles, property of
							the state militia, were pressed into service, and these, with some cooking utensils
							purchased out of a fund placed at our disposal by Colonel Durbin and Major Smith, made
							up our first equipments. Out of this same fund a few delicacies and a daily supply of
							milk were purchased, but when once started the good ladies of Indianapolis made
							donations of good things to eat and bed linen that had the regiment remained at this
							camp very much longer the hospital would have had a stock of provisions sufficient to
							supply a dozen such institutions.
						Three patients were received on the afternoon of the 6th. Other cases soon followed
							until the records would show from ten to fifteen in the hospital each day. The morning
							reports would show about an average of forty or  fifty
							answering sick call. This did not include many who were taking medicine for minor
							causes and not going on the sick book. The sickness was due principally to malarial
							infection, being fever, diarrhea, etc., predisposed by the changes always incident to
							camp life.
						While camp life was new to the men, they failed to realize to any great extent that
							it was necessary to exercise some precautions in the care of their health; that a few
							mild chills in Indiana might be the cause for protracted malarial fever in the
							tropical country, or that a disordered stomach predisposed to a prolonged attack of
							camp diarrhoea. Thus it was that when we left Camp Mount, although considered a
							healthy regiment, the men really had not the physical stamina they had when they came
							into camp six weeks before. On breaking camp about half of the patients in the
							hospital were furloughed home, the balance taken along, as they were so desirous of
							staying with the regiment, that it was almost impossible to refuse to take them. Just
							before starting the first discharge in the regiment was granted to Corporal William
							Gilbert on the ground of disability. Not being of strong constitution, the six weeks
							of camp life had been too rough for him and the surgeons decided he was unfitted for
							further military service. On arrival at Panama Park, Florida, on the bright Sunday
							morning of August 14th, only three men were willing to be admitted to the hospital,
							the others being so benefited and buoyed up by the trip and changes manifest
							everywhere about them that, although some had fever, they were desirous of keeping out
							of the hospital. Each case had received close attention during the trip, there being a
							surgeon aboard each section of the train. When the regiment first went into camp here
							it was the order from corps headquarters to have a regimental hospital to hold the
							patients for not longer than three days to  determine
							the gravity of the ailment, after which the patient was to be sent to the division
							hospital or returned to quarters as the seriousness of the case would indicate. This
							was not a very practical rule, to say the least, and was not followed closely by any
							of the regiments in the corps, possibly on account of the lack of the facilities at
							the division hospital at the time for the care of the sick. As for our own regiment,
							Major Smith insisted that he preferred keeping the sick under the direct observation
							of himself and the assistant surgeons. However, a close supervision was kept of the
							cases and any one that bid fair to be protracted for a length of time was transferred
							to the Division hospital.
						According to general order No. 58, of the war department, a limited number of
							enlisted men of the volunteer service were given an opportunity to be transferred to
							the hospital corps of the United States Army. The Third Division hospital at the time
							of arrival of the regiment at Panama Park had just been started, and the demands on
							the accommodations of the same by reason of a heavy per cent. of sickness in some of
							the other regiments, made it necessary for us to furnish our quota of men to act as
							nurses within a few days after our arrival. At their own request the following men
							were transferred: Company A, Horace Lucas, Jean Crandall, Andrew Larson, S. Byerly,
							Harry C. Kimball; Company B, Burle Turner and Edward Walter; Company D, Wesley Dall,
							Michael Logan, Marcus Renfrow; Company E, John Griffith, Jesse Dunhan; Company F,
							Granville Williams, William Prifogle, Sylvester Wright; Company G, J. Morris Leech,
							John Dolan, William T. Engel, Alonzo Allen; Company H, Leven Wallace, Clarence Heaton;
							Company I, Jacob W. Dexter, Franklin G. Scott; Company K, John Romain, James Keith,
							Harry McCoy, Fred Rowell; Company L, J. G. B. Jones, T.  Johanna; Company M, John Cox, Ernest Bales. These men when transferred would draw
							the increased pay of $21.60 per month. Lucas was soon made acting steward. Walters and
							Griffith were immediately detailed back to the regiment, Walters as orderly to Major
							Smith, and Griffith as hostler, which positions they held until exchanged, April 30,
							1899. Not many good things can be said of the hospital at Camp Cuba Libre, nor are
							many pleasant memories stored away by those connected with it during the long dreadful
							siege of malaria that followed. The first hospital was erected on the second day after
							arrival, and consisted of a tent, 14 x 16, furnished with two bales of hay for beds,
							and for four weeks of rainy weather was without a floor, due (is it to be presumed) to
							the scarcity of lumber in that region of pine forests? No provisions were made for
							feeding the sick, other than from their regular rations, which had already become
							repulsive to their weak stomachs. Milk was hard to get in that barren country, as well
							as ice, another very desirable article for the sick; but it was not long until the Red
							Cross Society came to our assistance with ice each day. A short time afterward the
							society presented the hospital with a large chest, which proved very useful. Getting
							the floor seemed to be a good starter, for in a few days Colonel Durbin ordered a lot
							of matresses dropped at the door; the hay was discarded and the patients put on real
							beds. Eighteen cots were next secured from the medical supply house. About this time a
							nice lot of bed linens, night shirts and towels were received from the ladies of
							Monticello, Indiana, and also jellies, canned fruit and fruit juices were received
							from the Woman's Relief Corps, of Indianapolis, which had been collected from
							different parts throughout the state. Soon after a very large box, containing new
							sheets, feather pillows, pillow cases and towels, was sent direct from the  Pettis Dry Goods Company, of Indianapolis, by these
							same Woman's Relief Corps ladies. These articles and the foods were doubly
							appreciated, on account of coming in a time when so sorely needed. The culinary
							department also began to receive some attention. A stove was found and a few dishes
							and the mess and food chest, drawn from the medical supply depot, fitted up a very
							respectable kitchen. On the 14th of September, Louis C. Benica was detailed as cook,
							and remained with the kitchen as long as the hospital existed. For the first ten days
							after our arrival at Camp Cuba Libre the sick call was somewhat lighter than at Camp
							Mount, but the frequent showers and hot sun soon got in their work, and the line that
							filed up to the dispensary behind the sergeant in charge each morning became a little
							longer. The happy, enthusiastic boys of a fortnight before were becoming a listless
							and forlorn-looking crowd, their systems loaded down with malarial poison. It would be
							impossible for pen to describe the suffering these men passed through in getting
							acclimated to the sunny south.
						On September 4th the regiment was shocked by the first death, that of Earnest R.
							Pullman, of Company A, who dove off of a railroad trestle into the shallow water of
							Trout Creek striking his head on the bottom. After being rescued by his comrades and
							brought to camp it was found that he had broken his spine just below the shoulders. He
							lived only thirty hours after receiving the injury. Steward Lewis was admitted to the
							hospital the latter part of August with a temperature of 103. It was thought his
							illness was only temporary, but in a few days complications arose and he was sent to
							the division hospital, where it was hoped that better care and food would cause him to
							rally but he failed to improve and died the 8th of September. His loss was deeply
							regretted by his host of friends in the regiment and those at home. Dr. George B.
							Jones was chosen steward  in his place. Just about
							this time Steward Espey was taken sick and Geo. W. Twomey, of Company E, a medical
							student, was detailed to the hospital,where he remained until the regiment landed in
							Cuba. In September Ralph H. Kenner, of Company H, was detailed as drug clerk and with
							the exception of nine days that he was sick you would have found him at his post day
							and night. Kenner was a most faithful clerk and was kept very busy filling, while at
							Cuba Libre, two and three hundred prescriptions per day. Not all the boys had implicit
							faith in the remedies prescribed, partly perhaps because the drugs did not have the
							same effect they would have had under different surroundings and in another climate,
							consequently quite an amount of malarial specific was disposed of in a way not
							intended by the prescriber. In one instance pills and powders enough to fill a quart
							cup were found under the bunk of a young man who had been furloughed home. He had been
							answering sick call for quite a while and had disposed of his medicine in this way
							instead of swallowing it.
						In the latter part of September, the service of a lady nurse, Miss Mollie Ward, was
							secured, which was a great advantage to the hospital and an improved appearance was
							most apparent after a few days in care of Miss Ward. She was a sister of Lieutenant
							Ward, of Company I, and a graduate of the Chicago Training School. About this time a
							new bath house was built and it was at this time that an effort was being put forth to
							secure the allowance of sixty cents per day granted by the government to each patient
							in the hospital. This was not secured, however, until a month later and the hospital
							had to depend on money secured from friends for means to pay the laundry bills and buy
							milk for the patients, there being ten gallons used daily.. On October 1st, Hospital
							Steward Espey started for his home in Indiana, more dead than alive, where after a  lingering illness he recovered, but applied for his
							discharge, which was granted without returning to the regiment. On October 18th, Major
							Smith was taken sick and removed to 
								JAMES G. ESPEY.
							 a hotel in Jacksonville, and three days later started for his home in
							Indiana on a thirty days' sick leave. Lieutenant Gerrish was now placed in charge of
							the medical department and Lieutenant Wilson, who had been detailed to the Third
							Division hospital, was returned to the regiment. It had required a detail of two men
							from the regiment all the time as nurses and although inexperienced these men were
							always faithful and did their duty as best they could; they received no extra pay but
							they will be most gratefully remembered by those who were recipients of their
							kindness. Those who were regularly detailed and remained for a length of time were:
							Marshall D. Dickey, Company F; Charles Best, Company I; Samuel J. Weaver, Company F,
							at Jacksonville, Savannah and in Cuba; John Myers, Company E; John W. Wilson, Company
							G; Charles Nash,  Company G; Henry Spencer, Company M.
							On the night of October 1st, began a rain which ended in a wind storm lasting all next
							day that will always be remembered. The hospital was only saved by being tied down and
							even as it was the bedding got soaked and a large quantity of the drugs destroyed.
							After this storm jaundice seemed to increase and the men began to look more like a
							race of Mongolians than Americans.
						Up to this time only one death had occurred in the regimental hospital, Fred
							Shroeder, of Company A, who died very suddenly on October 14 of a hemorrhage of the
							bowels during an attack of typhoid fever. On October 22 the patients remaining in the
							regimental hospital, some fifty or sixty in number, were removed to the Third Division
							hospital preparatory to our leaving for Savannah the next day. Some of these poor
							fellows never lived to join the regiment. Others were furloughed home and granted
							discharges. Few came back. Sixty-four was the highest number in the regimental
							hospital at one time, and when the regiment left for Savannah there was hardly a
							person who had not suffered from some form of malaria. On October 16 a large wooden
							building that would accommodate fifty or more patients was completed and ready for
							use. This came too late to be of much service.

						
							SAVANNAH.

							The camp at Savannah was quite a contrast to the one we had just left and the
								hospital was very poorly patronized. Some thirty cases of measles broke out, but
								these were sent to the division hospital, and deaths occurred as follows: William G.
								Weaver, Company I, fever; Joseph F. Turner, Company I, measles. Just before leaving
								for Cuba the following privates from the hospital corps, United States Army, were
								transferred to this regiment for duty at regimental 
								hospital: Morris F. Leech, Jacob W. Dexter, Franklin Scott and John Cox, who were
								among those originally transferred from this regiment to United States hospital
								corps. These having had six months experience in the division hospital, and the
								hospital funds now being granted made the hospital able to take care of the sick
								much better than ever before.
						

						
							CUBA.

							When we arrived in Cuba there was but one ambulance load of sick. These were mostly
								measles and all able to sit up. The eight-mile march to Marianao, although hot and
								dusty, had no bad effect on the men, but rather served as a means of relief after
								having been penned up on board the transport for four days. After shifting the tents
								around from place to place for a few days, a location was at last found on a nice
								grassy spot about one, quarter of a mile from the regiment. The nurses had just
								gotten rid of all the cases of measles and were preparing to have an easy time when
								a worse woe overtook them. A case of smallpox broke out in the hospital, December
								27, Fred Imes, of Company I, being the patient. None of the corps had ever had this
								disease and none were foolhardy enough to run into it; but since it was their duty
								to take care of this case, and having been already exposed, no one even intimated
								that he was unwilling to do his duty. The hospital was immediately put under
								quarantine. It was necessary for some one to take the patient to an isolated tent,
								two hundred yards away, and live there the life of a hermit until the case
								terminated. Franklin Scott, a personal friend of Imes, volunteered to go and nurse
								him, as brave an act as a soldier ever did. The Imes case not being a bad one, he
								was back ih his company at the end of nine weeks. The next two cases were Jacob
								Dexter, of 
								
									THE MEDICAL OFFICERS AND HELPERS.
								
								 Company I, a night nurse, and Andrew Graham, of
								Company D, who was just convalescing from measles when Imes was brought in. Dexter
								took on the hemorrhagic form and died in less than a week. Graham, on whom the
								eruption appeared almost solid, lived a week longer.
							Every thing was favorable to good health as could be anywhere, and, aside from the
								sore arms, not many men were excused from duty. A pleasant northeaster almost
								incessantly blowing across the isle. To the hospital corps and attaches the time is
								one long to be remembered. To Major Smith they are indebted for many pleasures that
								the hospital corps of other regiments did not have. It was due to his kindness that
								they were permitted to have an ambulance to go to the sea-shore twice a week as well
								as to take an occasional trip to the surrounding country. Marshall Dickey, of
								Company "F," was the third case to be admitted. His proved to be a mild attack of
								veriloid, however, and he soon recovered. He was then utilized to assist in nursing
								the others. John Werner, of Company "A," who had the small-pox some years before,
								volunteered his services as nurse also, which were gladly accepted. Scott had a very
								severe attack of the disease; for a time his life was despaired of but he finally
								recovered at the end of two months. Everything that could be procured for the
								comfort of these patients was ordered by Major Smith, such as milk at twenty-five
								cents per quart, butter at fifty cents per pound, eggs at forty cents per dozen and
								canned delicacies regardless of cost. The major was equally as careful of his
								patients in every way, visiting them two or three times a day and seeing to their
								burial. The major had had some experience with this disease and he was very
								successful in preventing its spread through the regiment. Vaccination was begun
								immediately on the appearance of the first case, but the virus proved to be inert.
								Good virus  was procured as soon as possible; and
								the whole regiment vaccinated. Some arms that were produced were a sight to behold.
								For some reason the vaccine and small pox seemed to be of especial virulent type.
								While the hospital was under quarantine Chas. Trimble, of Company "F," died at the
								Second Division hospital of malarial cacxia. The boy had never recovered from a long
								siege of malarial fever at Jacksonville and had not the constitution to withstand
								further hardships. The quarantine was raised and the hospital moved up by the camp
								on February 3rd. The hospital was in its new location but a few days when Andrew
								Gould, of Company M, was admitted for malarial fever; shortly symptoms of small pox
								began to appear and he was immediately placed in a detention tent. In two more days
								the disease was fully manifest and he was removed to the Second Division hospital.
								In ten days more we heard the sad news of his death. The loss of all these cases was
								felt much heavier on account of their being young men somewhat above the average in
								morals and intelligence. It was sad indeed to see those brave boys so full of vigor,
								stricken in a foreign land so far from home and loved ones. Comrades have sodded
								their graves with green and placed a carved stone at the head of each. And in after
								years when all their comrades have passed away we know that a grateful country will
								protect that lonely spot, hallowed by their dust and keep those graves forever
								green.
							The day before leaving for America the patients in the regimental hospital were
								returned to quarters and on the next day all were able to go aboard the transport;
								six men who were in the division hospital were all that were left behind. On arrival
								at Savannah, Georgia, the hospital was broken up; all cases requiring more care than
								could be afforded them in quarters were sent to the military hospital
								
						
				
								
				in the city of Savannah. Some four or five cases were all that required
				removal. The cases in the Second Division hospital were brought over from Cuba just before
				the regiment was mustered out, all convalescent. On looking back over the eight months of
				hospital experience in the field, one of the striking features is the lack of the variety of
				diseases, the overwhelming majority of cases being due to malarial infection; few cases of
				typhoid fever are recorded and but one case of pneumonia, that one a complication of
				measles. The twenty deaths that occurred is not a great mortality but the effects of the
				poisonous miasma of Florida will be in greater evidence in the broken constitution of many a
				survivor in after years.
						
					
					
								
				
								
				
				
									
				
				REGIMENTAL BAND
					
				
					
					
				ERNEST S. WILLIAMS.
					
				Mr. Ernest S. Williams, chief musician, was appointed to his position
				December 3, 1898. He is the son of S. E. Williams, one of the foremost musicians of the
				state, and was born at Fountain City, Indiana, on the 27th
				
				
				ERNEST S. WILLIAMS.
				
					
				day of
				September, 1881. He received his education in the schools of Winchester, Indiana, but at a
				very early age it became apparent that he was, by his natural gifts, fitted above everything
				else for the musical profession. At the early age of seven, under the direction of his
				father, he began the study of the rudiments and the practice of the cornet. Mr. Williams has
				had connection with the leading bands of the state, and since his appointment as chief
				
				
				
					
				
							
				
					
				musician in the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana
				he has proven efficient and acceptable in every particular, bringing the band to a
				recognized position as one of the very best of the Seventh Army Corps. One of Mr.. Williams'
				latest and best compositions is the, "March of the One Hundred and Sixty-first," which he
				has just published and dedicated to the members of that regiment.
					
				
				
					
										
				MEMBERS.
					
					
				Warren, Broison, baritone.
				Byers, John, snare drum.
				Braselton, E. K., solo alto.
				Coffey, Albert, fourth alto.
				Darnell, Charles, slide trombone.
				Dumenil, Ellsworth, slide trombone.
				Hammock, John, first B-flat cornet.
				Harris, W. S., first clarinet.
				Hoar, John, bass drum.
				Hay, G. C., solo cornet.
				Huffman, Ed., tenor trombone.
				Jakes, David, second clarinet.
				Lance, Ed., third alto.
				Lunow, Martin, slide trombone.
				McCloud, John, E-flat clarinet.
				Meissner, A. C., E-flat bass.
				Reinhart, Walter, second B-flat cornet.
				Paxton, George, piccolo.
				Rucker, H. V., E-flat bass.
				Walker, Fred, baritone.
				Williams, E. S., solo cornet.
				Webb, M. S., second alto.
				Leland, Charles, drum-major.
				Cocker, Joe, cook.
				
					
					
				
					
					
				ORGANIZATION.
					
				Shortly after the formation of the regiment at Camp
				Mount, the proper steps were taken preparatory to the regimental musical organization. A
				careful search through the different companies brought forth several fair musicians and they
				at once secured instruments, some owning their own, and some using instruments rented by the
				officers from dealers in the city; during the remainder of the month of July and up to
				August 12 the boys lent their efforts toward furnishing band music for the regiment and
				visitors. Upon leaving Indianapolis for Jacksonville, the rented instruments were returned,
				and those who owned them shipped theirs home. After Mr. Beck, of Columbus, Indiana, after
				several other conclusions, concluded that the sand of Florida would certainly destroy his
				already failing eyesight, Mr. Antonio Montani, of Indianapolis, was appointed chief
				musician (band master) and Mr. H. M. Lord, of Mt. Vernon, Indiana, as one of the principal
				musicians.
				Arriving at Jacksonville it was several days before a new set of band instruments
				was received, and when they did arrive they were of a very inferior grade; however some
				progress was made under Mr. Montani's direction.
				The Second Mississippi Regiment had been
				furnished by their state with a fine set of Boston musical instruments, valued at three
				thousand five hundred dollars, and prior to leaving for home on September 12, the
				instruments had been turned to account with the government, and late in the night of
				September 11, Major Megrew returned from a conference with Chief Quartermaster Pond bearing
				an order for the Second Mississippi instruments to be turned over to the quartermaster of
				the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana, and on the morning of the 12th they were in
				
				
					
				the possession of the One Hundred and
				Sixty-first Regimental Band.
				About this time Mr. Montani's health began to fail, and on
				this account, and also on account of sickness in the band, no progress was made, although
				the organization was sufficient for the needs at this time.
				On October 21st, the regiment
				was ordered to Savannah, and after arrival there Mr. Montani secured his discharge. The
				position of director fell to Principal Musician Harry M. Lord, and under him the band took a
				fresh start and accomplished much. Mr. Lord was taken sick two weeks later, however, and was
				sent to the division hospital. At this juncture it was evident the One Hundred and
				Sixty-first Indiana would go to Cuba, and Captain Stott started for Indiana, the result
				being that several good musicians were secured. Mr. E. S. Williams, of Winchester, solo
				cornetist, being appointed chief musician, and Frederick Walker, from Shelbyville, as
				principal musician; much needed nusic was secured and the band made great strides. Arriving
				in Cuba, Mr. G. A. Hay, cornetist, was appointed principal musician to succeed Mr. Lord, who
				had been furloughed and discharged. Although handicapped by some sickness the band never
				lost a member. They withstood the climate of Cuba admirably, and returned to Savannah
				March 29. 1899, with the regiment. The band was scheduled for one concert each week at
				division headquarters, the majority of which were given. Several concerts were played at St.
				James Park in Jacksonville, and one at the Windsor hotel; two were given at the De Sota in
				Savannah, and one at General Lee's residence in Marianao, Cuba. Music was also furnished for
				the One Hundred and Sixty-first reception at Marianao on the evening of March the 20th,
				besides several concerts furnished after the return of the regiment to America. As a band
				
				
				
				
				this ranked second to
				none in the Seventh Army Corps. All are as proud of their record as the men are of the 
				record of the regiment during the Spanish-American war.
					
					
				
					
					
				BUGLE AND DRUM CORPS.
					
				The organization
				of the Bugle Corps was effected early in the history of the regiment and was made by the
				selection of two men from each company, but until sufficient practice enabled them to
				sound a call that could be recognized for what it was meant, John Strauss, of Company M,
				did the bugle work for the regiment, and was thereafter chief bugler, under whose
				directions the men became quite proficient in their art, and many a time when "Dutch," of
				Torrey's calvary, would startle the stillness of the night with his fine expression of
				Retreat, the response that went back from camp the One Hundred and Sixty-first was like it.
				The drum corps came into existence just before going to Cuba, and have aided materially in
				the department of music to which they belong, especially in the morning, "Can't get 'em
				up."
				There have been changes in both these bodies, but at mustering-out time they were
				composed as follows:
					
					
				BUGLE CORPS.
				Parley Miller.
				Otto Ware.
				Will Mickelson and Wiley Moore.
				Charles W. Brownscome and John E. Harper.
				Percy Jones.
				Will G. Ford and George Muye.
					
				
					
				
				BUGLE AND DRUM CORPS.
				
					
				
					
				Henry Vandyke and Edward Beeson.
				John Fedder and B. Middleton.
				Charles E. Conner and William E. Comer.
				Horace Israel and Alexander Clarke.
				A. E. Gordon and A. E. Thomas.
				Charles L. Kelsey.
				

				
				DRUMMERS.
				William Fortune.
				George W. Cravens.
				John K. Prather.
				Edward White.
				Fred. B. Stanley.
				Eugene Taylor.
				Walter Simons.
				William Fuller.
				
				
									
					
					
				
				
				
				
				
				
				ROLL OF HONOR
					
					
				
					
				ROLL OF	HONOR.
					
				
					
				This is the saddest part of the writer's task, to chronicle the death of his
				comrades, who came out with glad enthusiasm for the cause they espoused and with patriotic
				devotion to the flag they loved. With a heart for any fate they made the great sacrifice and
				laid down their lives for the flag they had sworn to defend; not on the battle field, in the
				midst of the smoke and flame and leaden hail, falling by some comrade's side--that had been
				better; but in the miasmic atmosphere of the army hospital, with fevered cheek and
				glistening eye they tossed upon their cot, dragging the long days and weary hours through,
				hoping still, till touched by the silence of death. They all died bravely, uncomplaining, as
				soldiers ought to die. Those who paid the great price on native soil were sent home for
				burial. In many cases escorts from their companies went to the city and gathered round the
				flag-draped coffin in which their comrade lay and after a brief service by the chaplain the
				remains were escorted to the depot for shipment. Those who died on foreign soil are resting
				to-day beneath the palms of Cuba. There are four of them whose graves are No.'s 16, 17, 19,
				and 26 in that soldier row that lies just up from Playa's coast.
				On Friday, March 12, 1899,
				Lieutenant-Colonel Backus and the chaplain with a detail of men from the companies to which
				these dead comrades belonged sodded the graves and placed at their heads 1 rge blocks of
				limestone, each containing a marble slab upon which is chiseled the name and other
				appropriate facts concerning the departed soldier. These stones were prepared at the
				instance of Colonel Durbin by Antonio Bello, of Company L, a practical worker in marble,
				and are of such a substantial character as to last as 
					
				
					
				
					
				
					
				long as time, if not disturbed, and thus our
				comrades are sleeping in their silent graves of glory where their devotion to the stars and
				stripes has laid them to rest. No. 16 is Jacob W. Dexter's grave, the first of the three low
				stones on your left if you look at them from the foot of the graves; the next No. 17, is
				Charles Trimble's, and No. 19, nearest to the high stone is Alonzo M. Graham's, while No. 26
				is seen to the extreme right being the grave of Andrew Gould. We knew when we left that
				destiny with its silent tread would touch perhaps the threshold of many a heart to bid it
				prepare for the unseen world. These comrades of ours, brave and strong on that day, were
				the ones to hear the call and when the hour was ready they made the sacrifice that placed
				their names on the Honor Roll and made for themselves a glory as undying as the memory of a
				grateful people. Whether they are resting to-day side by side with dear ones in the Holy
				fields at home where loving hands have laid them away or whether their sleeping forms
				sanctify the red soil of that land they went to save, their companionship and their
				sacrifice will be an evergreen spot in the memory of us all. "Under the sod and the dew
				waiting the judgment day;" they did their duty; we honor them for it and leave the rest with
				God.
				
				
					
									
				ERNEST R. PUHLMAN.
				
				Private Ernest R. Puhlman, Company A, was born in Berlin, Germany,
				in 1877. The first death in the regiment occurred by accident; Ernest R. Puhlman with some
				of his comrades were bathing in Trout creek September 3; Puhlman, misjudging the water's
				depth, dove from a railroad trestle and striking bottom dislocated his third spinal vertebra;
				he was unconscious up to the moment of his death, 
					
				
				
				
				ERNEST R. PUHLMAN.
					
				
				and died at 6:30 P. M., September 4,
				1898, in the Third Division hospital, Camp Cuba Libre.
				
					
					
				
								
				JOHN J. LEWIS.
				Hospital Steward John
				J. Lewis was born near Mitchell, Lawrence county, Indiana, May 2, 1878. He received his
				early education in Germany, and his medical training in the medical department of the
				University of Indianapolis, graduating with honor March 27, 1898. He was appointed chief
				hospital steward of the One Hundred and Sixty-first Indiana Volunteer Infantry upon the
				unanimous recommendation of his college faculty. He discharged all his duties faithfully
				and acceptably; he was courteous 
					
				
				
				and reserved, and especially kind to his associates. His illness began about September 1, and
				was not thought to be serious; patient in suffering, he always replied, "I'm all
				
				
				JOHN J. LEWIS.
				
					
				right," but his illness suddenly became serious, and heart failure ensued, from which
				he died at 9:40 P. M. on Thursday, September 8, 1898,
				in the Third Division hospital at Camp Cuba Libre.
					
					
				

				
				CLARENCE D. KUNS, COMPANY I.
				Private Clarence D. Kuns, Company I, was born
				at Dayton, Ohio, in 1874; died of typhoid at 12:30 A. M., 
					
					
				
					
					
				CLARENCE D. KUNS, COMPANY I.
				
							
				September 24, 1898, at
				Camp Cuba Libre; buried at Brookston, Indiana.
				
					
				

				
				* ROBERT ANGLETON, COMPANY E.
				Private Robert Angleton was born at Jeffersonville, Indiana, in 1878, and died October 11, 1898, of typhoid
				fever at the same place while on a sick furlough.
				
					
				

				
				* JOHN A. SEBREE, COMPANY D.
				Private John A. Sebree, age 22, died of typhoid fever October 14, 1898, at Camp Cuba Libre; he was born
				in Ghent, New York, to which place his remains were shipped for burial.
					
					
				

				
				WALLACE D. STIVERS, COMPANY I.
				Corporal Wallace D. Stivers, age 21, died of typhoid fever October 14,
				1898, at Camp Cuba Libre; his remains were sent to Rensselaer for burial.
					
				
				
					
					
				WALLACE D. STIVERS, COMPANY I.
				
				

				
					
					
				* FRED SHROEDER.
				Private Fred Schroeder, age 22, died in the regimental hospital, at Camp Cuba Libre, of
				typhoid fever, October 14, 1898; buried at Hammond, Indiana.
				

				
					
					
				* CHARLES E. LEITER, COMPANY L.
				Private Charles E. Leiter, age 28, died of typhoid fever October 17, 1898, at Camp Cuba
				Libre. He was born at Gilboa, Ohio, to which place the remains were sent.
				

				
					
					
				HENRY STILLE, COMPANY M.
				Private Henry Stille, born in July, 1878, at New Point, Indiana, died of typhoid
				fever October 17, 1898, at Camp Cuba Libre.
					
				
					
				
				HENRY STILLE, COMPANY M.
				
				
				
					
					
				
				GEORGE KEPPERLING, COMPANY I.
				
					
				
					
				GEORGE KEPPERLING, COMPANY I.
				Private George
				Kepperling, age 21, died of typhoid fever October 23, 1898, at Chalmers, Indiana, where he
				was at that time on sick furlough.
				

				
					
					
				DENVER BROWN, COMPANY F.
				Private Denver Brown, age 30, the color bearer, died of typhoid fever 
				October 23, 1898, at Camp Cuba Libre.
					
					
				DENVER BROWN, COMPANY F.
				
				


				He was born in West Manchester, Ohio, at which place the remains were buried.
					


				
					
					
				* CLYDE C. GABLE, COMPANY H.
				Private Clyde C. Gable, age 21, died of typhoid fever at Fort McPherson, November 3,
				1898.
				
					
				
					
				
				* FRANK M. GREEN, COMPANY D.
				Private Frank M. Green, age 24, died of typhoid fever
				November 3, 1898, in the Third Division hospital at Camp Cuba Libre, after the regiment had
				left for Savannah. His remains were sent to North Vernon, Indiana.
				
				
				
				
				
				WILLIAM G. WEAVER, COMPANY I.
				Private William G. Weaver, age 31, died of typhoid fever at Camp Onward,
				Savannah, November 7, 1898. He
				
				
				WILLIAM G. WEAVER, COMPANY I.
				
					
				was born near Monticello, Indiana, and was buried in the cemetery near his home, Chaplain 
				Biederwolf, who was at that time home, having charge of the funeral services.
				
					
				
					
				
				JOSEPH F. TURNER, COMPANY I.
				Private Joseph F. Turner, age 25, died of pneumonia November 30, 1898, at
				Camp Onward. His remains were interred at Wheatfield, Indiana. 
				
				
				JOSEPH F. TURNER, COMPANY I.
				(TAKEN THREE DAYS BEFORE DEATH.
				
				
				

				
				
				
				JACOB W. DEXTER, COMPANY I.
				Private Jacob W. Dexter, age twenty-two, enlisted at Monticello, June 28, 1898. He was transferred to the
				hospital corps August 20, 1898, and by testimony of the chief surgeon was one of the most
				obedient and best nurses in the corps. Exposed to the smallpox while on duty, he stood at
				his post and cared for his comrades until the dread disease fastened upon him, and he died
				on January 17. He was buried in the United States military cemetery, side by side with his
				dead comrades. His grave is No. 16.
					
				
				
				
				JACOB W. DEXTER, COMPANY I.
				
					
				
					
				

				
				CHARLES EVERSON, COMPANY K.
				

									
				
				CHARLES EVERSON, COMPANY K.
				Private Charles Everson, age twenty-nine, died of typhoid fever December 2, 1898, at
				Camp Onward, and his remains were sent to his home at Columbus, Indiana.
				

				
				
								
				CHARLES TRIMBLE, COMPANY F.
				Private
				Charles Trimble, age nineteen, died of typhoid fever at Camp Columbia, Cuba, January 18,
				1899, and was
				
				
				CHARLES TRIMBLE, COMPANY F.
					
				
				buried in the United States military cemetery, near Playa de Marianao, Cuba. His grave is No. 17.
				
				
				
				
					
					
				ALONZO M. GRAHAM, COMPANY D.
				Private Alonzo M. Graham, age twenty-six, born at Lancaster, Indiana, and died of smallpox
				January 24, 1899,
				
				
				ALONZO M. GRAHAM, COMPANY D.
				
					
				at Camp Columbia. His grave is No. 19 in the United States military cemetery, near Playa de Marianao.
					
					
					
					
					
				ANDREW GOULD, COMPANY M.
				Private Andrew Gould, born at Lawrenceburg, Indiana, and died of smallpox February
				17, 1899, at Camp Columbia, Cuba. His grave is No. 26 in the United States military cemetery, near
				Playa de Marianao.
					
				
					
					
				ANDREW GOULD, COMPANY M.
				
				
					
					
					
				* Photographs not obtainable.
				
				
				
				

		
		
	
