
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Biddle, Horace P. (Horace Peters), 1811-1900.. Prose miscellany. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8226
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		


			

			




			

			
				CONTENTS.
				



				
					PAGE.
					DISCOURSE ON ART5
					DEFINITION OF POETRY46
					ANALYSIS OF RHYME73
					A REVIEW OF PROFESSOR TYNDALL ON SOUND90
					MUSIC AND ITS INSTRUMENTS150
					A REVIEW OF A REVIEW183
					THE TETRACHORD193
					RUSSIAN LITERATURE205

				
			
		
		

			
				Prose miscellany
				




				
				
					
						A DISCOURSE ON ART.
					
					

					Art, in its most general sense, is the proper adaptation of the things in nature to the
						wants of mankind. The arts are founded on philosophy, and directed by science; and are
						divided into the Useful and the Fine. The useful arts are confined to the works of the
						hand without any special exercise of the understanding or culture of the taste, and have
						for their object the improvement of man's physical condition. Their bases are found
						solely in the wants of the body. They embrace agriculture, the mechanic arts, and the
						work of artisans; and can not be enumerated without mentioning almost every pursuit of
						man. They originated very early in the history of our race--for its very existence
						depended upon them--and gradually advanced throughout the various nations to the present
						time. Within this century, however, their progress has been exceedingly rapid. The
						faculty of mind which discovers and produces the useful arts is invention. This power
						seizes upon the things in the material world, and adapts them to man's advantage.
					The fine arts may be defined to be the various adaptations of the beautiful in nature
						to the pleasures of man. They are divided into architecture, sculpture, painting, music,
						and poetry. They are under the direction of the mind and heart, rather than the hand,
							 and have for their object the elevation of our common
						nature. Each rests upon its particular science, except poetry, which is above all
						science. Their origin can not be traced; it is deeply hidden in the past. Architecture
						may have been copied from the mountain and the cavern and the natural pillar; the repose
						of the human figure in death would suggest sculpture; light and shade, and the tints of
						flowers, or the rainbow, would soon lead to painting. Thee origin of music has been
						attributed to various sources--the moving of waters, the whistling of the winds, the
						songs of birds, and even to the murmur of the reeds on the banks of the Nile, and to the
						ringing of the hammers of Tubal Cain. Poetry springs from the soul, transcends science,
						and soars above matter. It is purely ideal. Different nations and even individuals, have
						claimed the invention of fine arts as their own, but their claims have not been allowed.
						They belong to humanity. As they are based on the love of the beautiful implanted in our
						nature, their origin must have been almost coeval with mankind; and doubtless many
						attempts were made to realize them in their different forms long before they took
						position as distinct arts. The love of the beautiful things long before it attains any
						knowledge of the useful. So in the infancy of nations, the rudiments of the fine arts
						are found in their earliest history. The soul soon sees the images it loves, and the
						hand endeavors to embody them forth. The faculty of the mind which creates, understands
						and appreciates the fine arts, is the imagination. As invention is the founder of the
						useful arts, so imagination is the creator of the fine arts.  These powers of the mind resemble one another; indeed, invention is but a part of
						imagination, tlh distinguishing difference between them being the fancy. Though fancy
						and imagination are often confounded together, yet they are different. The fancy is that
						faculty of the mind by which we see things as they exist only in their brightest and
						most beautiful light; but it has no power to reconstruct them into new forms or
						combinations. The imagination is that power of the mind which constructs; it takes
						whatever the fancy selects as bright and beautiful in nature, and forms them into
						images, pictures, poems. Fancy chooses the material, imagination builds the structure.
						Thus, invention and fancy form the imagination; it is a double power, not a single
						faculty. Invention without fancy deals with the useful but with fancy it forms the
						imagination, and leads up to the beautiful. The fine arts, then, are based on the
						beautiful, and are created by the imagination.

					What is beauty, or the beautiful? The definition of beauty has engaged the attention of
						philosophers ever since the commencement of letters. The earliest speculations on record
						are by Plato; and although it is dificult to digest a system on this subject from his
						dialogues, yet he laid down the true foundation-- namely, that beaty exists in mind and not in matter. There have been many
						hypotheses suggested since his day, yet none have been able to overthrow this
						fundamental idea. Xenophon treats of the subject, but offers no system; and the writings
						of Cicero abound with thoughts showing a just sense and a fine appreciation of the
						beautiful. Shaftsbury atttributes the  perception of the
						beautiful to an internal sense: this is a similar view to Plato's. Addison has treated
						of the subject ingeniously in several numbers of the Spectator.
						Burke's singular and absurd theory that beauty consists merely in the relaxation of the
						muscular fiber, was demolished by a single line from Jeffrey, by simply directing its
						votaries to a warm bath. Next to Plato, the most ingenious speculations on this subject
						are by Diderot. He declared that beauty did not depend upon any inherent quality in the
						objects themselves but upon their power of exciting certain sentiments in the mind. Thus
						far he was correct, but he ultimately ruined his theory, by declaring that beauty
						depended merely upon relation. The theory of Sir Joshua Reynolds was
						that beauty consists of mediocrity, or conformity to that which is
						most usual. Surely this can not be true, for it would rob beauty of all its
						beauty--namely, its excellence and superiority. Mr. Alison attributes beauty to association, which very much resembles Diderot's theory of relation. The sense of beauty will doubtless be touched by pleasing
						associations, but if there is nothing intrinsic in beauty, why should some associations
						be pleasing and others not? If beauty consists merely in association,
						then we may say that a defority consists in the same thing, for association is alike
						capable of awakening the sense of either. Indeed, every faculty of the mind may be
						united to some other faculty, or dissevered from it, by association. Dugald Stewart
						appears to take a more correct view of the powers of association as connected with
						beauty, by saying that it often suggests the beautiful; but he does
						not  venture to build a theory on so narrow a foundation as
						that asserted by Mr. Alison.
					Because beauty is variable--one of its greatest attributes being variety--there have
						been those claiming to be philosophers who have denied its existence altogether. Because
						an emotion of the soul can not be defined simply, and fixed as permanent as a cube or
						sphere, its existence is therefore denied. As well may we deny the existence of the soul
						itself. Prominent among this negative school stands Voltaire. He says: "Ask a toad what
						is beautiful, and he will tell you, two round eyes, a big mouth, and a yellow throat.
						Ask a Hottentot; beauty to him is a black skin, thick lips, and a flat nose. Ask the
						devil; he will say, a pair of horns, four claws and a tail. Inquire of the philosophers,
						and they will answer you with jargon." But his opinions upon this subject are scarcely
						worth serious attention. He was a great genius, but quite too fond of denying every
						thing that was beautiful or good.
					Beauty, or the beautiful, can not be defined in terms; neither can the sensation of
						sight, hearing, or touch: yet who shall say we can not see, hear, or feel? Beauty is a
						sense of the soul, and whatever is capable touching that sense is beautiful. The means
						of exciting this perception are almost as various as the things in nature, yet the sense itself is forever the same. Creation abounds with beautiful
						objects; the flower, the rill, the bird, the gem, the plain, the mountain, the sea, the
						cataract, and the crowning work of God --the sky--are continually awakening the sense of
						the beautiful in man. The Supreme Being has surrounded us with the means of happiness
						and pleasure;  His goodness is ever to be adored. His
						creation is an eternal monument of beauty. Man selects from this vast domain the things
						which are most beautiful to him, and combines them into art, and by that means opens new
						avenues to the soul. The fine arts are the legitimate mode by which our aspirations for
						the beautiful find embodiment. Nor are we left to material means alone to reach the
						sense of the beautiful; many of the spiritual qualities have the same effect. There is a
						beauty in courage, fortitude, heroism. Architecture, sculpture, and painting appeal to
						the external senses; music and poetry to the spiritual nature of man; but all reach the
						soul: and amidst all this variety of means, throughout the natural creation, the
						embodiment of the arts, and our spiritual nature, by which the sense of the beautiful is
						touched, the sense remains the same. The far-off mountain, the flight of a bird, a
						thrill of harmony, the distant sea, a little child, a brilliant gem, a lovely flower,
						the rising sun, the vast dome of the sky--these to the external senses have no
						resemblance, yet how often they touch the same chord in the breast! A happy moment, a
						fine thought, a sweet memory, a fond hope, a thrill of love --how different, yet how
						much they resemble; for they all appeal to the sense of the beautiful--some through our
						external senses, and others through our spiritual nature; yet all reach the same place,
						and touch the same feeling in the soul.
					It is objected to this theory which attributes the appreciation of the beautiful to a
						faculty of the soul, that it gives to man a sixth sense. That we do so see the beautiful
						is a fact established by experience, and if it can not be accounted for but by imagining
						a sixth  sense, it would ill become philosophy to deny the
						fact. But this is not the true answer to the objection. If it requires a sixth sense to
						see the beautiful, it would require still many more senses to account for all the
						phenomena of the human mind. The body has its senses, so has the soul; and it no more
						requires an additional sense of the body to see beauty, than it would to see deformity,
						or to discover the difference between good and evil. Another objection made to this view
						is, that this internal sense, as it is called, is variable, and therefore can not be
						true. The sense itself is not variable; the variety exists, as has been remarked, in the
						means by which it may be excited. It is true that all objects of beauty do not affect
						all persons alike; neither do objects of any other kind: but this is rather in
						particulars than in the general. While many persons would disagree about the beauty of a
						particular natural object--as a flower, a mountain, a landscape, a cloud, or some
						peculiar view of the sky--yet all persons agree at once as to the beauty of the works of
						nature. So of any particular work of art, as an edifice, statue, picture, piece of
						music, or poem; persons may differ as to their individual excellence, but all may agree
						upon some other work, and that architecture, sculpture, painting, music, and poetry are
						beautiful arts. A mere difference of opinion about the objects of beauty can not render
						the existence of beauty itself, nor the sense by which we perceive it, uncertain. The
						sense of the beautiful is no more variable than any other principle in human nature, and
						while individuals are produced in endless variety, human nature remains the same; so,
						while works of art, in all its divisions, vary continually, the love of art,  and the sense of the beautiful, are constant and
						universal.
					Having shown the basis of the fine arts to be the beautiful, which is perceived by the
						sense of the soul so deeply implanted in our nature, we will proceed to briefly notice
						them separately; and first of architecture, which may be defined the beautiful in the
						forms of inorganic matter. Although men built houses, doubtless, of some sort, at a very
						early date, to shelter themselves from the inclemency of the weather, yet it is not
						likely that architecture had any existence as an art until a much later period, and it
						is highly probable that the first efforts of the kind grew out of the devotional
						feelings of mankind. The tower of Babel must be attributed to this source, however
						misdirected the feeling might have been. The pyramids of Egypt, the same; and throughout
						India, Greece, Italy, Gaul, Britain, and the Americas, the ruins of structures connected
						with the worship of Deity and heroism, of a very early date, still remain. From these to
						the more modern churches and temples, as man became more enlightened,the transition is
						very plain and easy. Our monuments at Bunker Hill, Baltimore, Washington, and other
						places are abiding witnesses of our devotion to courage and patriotism. Throughout the
						Assyrian and Persian empires there are no remains worthy of the name of architecture;
						and the Jews, not being an abiding people, left but few monuments of this noble art. The
						destruction of Jerusalem was so complete, that its style of architecture is left wholly
						to conjecture. It has been contended, however, that architecture took its rise from
						Solomon's temple and that in that may be found the  regular
						orders which were afterwards attributed to Greece. The bright mind and the quick heart
						of the Greek brought architecture to a high degree of perfection; yet, strange to say,
						the Greeks were ignorant of the arch--that important tie which afterwards gave strength
						and grandeur to Roman structures. Doubtless the Greeks were acquainted with the form of
						the arch, for the bow in the clouds, or the segment of a circle suggests it; but its use
						was unknown to them, or at least was never applied. It does not appear that the
						Egyptians ever brought architecture to a high degree of excellence. Their structures
						were massive but ungraceful. They looked upon mere weight as strength --which is a great
						error in any structure--and upon mere magnitude as grandeur. Their pyramids and temples
						are monuments of misdirected power. Unlike that of the Egyptians, grace, simplicity, and
						harmony formed the pervading spirit of Grecian architecture. The Romans, though they
						erected many noble edifices, were but the copyists of the Greeks. They added to the
						original, however, an effeminacy of detail, such as carving and figuring every
						architrave, molding, and cap, which, by the strict rules of good taste, can not be
						regarded as improvements. In some of their structures for practical uses, as their
						arches and aqueducts, they excelled the Greeks. Modern Italian architecture has still
						further departed from the purity and grace of the Greek, and has outstripped even Rome
						in fantastic ornament; but modern nations can not be said to have any national
						architecture. It is but a mixture of the Greek and Roman; indeed there can be no such
						thing as modern architecture; for the field has been occupied, and the subject
						exhausted.  All that is good in modern architecture is
						strictly referable to the Greek and Roman.
					The styles of architecture are generally divided into five orders--the Doric, Tuscan,
						Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite; but these orders blend, and are not essential to the
						nature of the art, any more than the division into epic, dramatic, lyric, pastoral, and
						elegiac, are essential to poetry. There are strictly but three orders, however. The
						Tuscan can scarcely be distinguished from the Doric. The Composite is a mixture of the
						Corinthian and Ionian, to the confusion and injury of both. The Doric, Corinthian, and
						Ionic were all known and used in Greece, and must ever be regarded as the highest and
						truest expression of architectural art. Nothing has since been added to their
						excellence; and indeed it would be almost as difficult to conceive a new order in
						architecture as it would be to invent a new form for the circle or the square. Yet we
						have the modern Gothic order, which was supposed to have originated with the Goths; but
						this notion can not be maintained. The Goths destroyed; they did not build. The Gothic
						order of acrhitecture was introduced, or invented, in England, about the middle of the
						twelfth century. It is not admitted into the clasic orders; yet as it is so well known
						in modern styles, it should be added to the number. Indeed, it has become quite a
						favorite order. There is a fanciful story that it was suggested by the crossing branches
						of trees in a thick forest, as the Corinthian order was supposed to have been by sitting
						a basket in a bed of flowers; but there is nothing of the kind authentic.
					The elements of beauty which enter into architecture  are
						simplicity and harmony; simplicity in the general structure, and harmony in all its
						parts. Grandeur is the great effect to be attained, and without simplicity it can not be
						done.
					Architecture in this--that it has no prototype in nature --differs from sculpture and
						painting. It deals wholly with inorganic shapes, and has a scope of invention greater
						than that of sculpture and painting, which are bound by prototypes; but less than that
						of poetry and music, which are bound by nothing material. Poetry can build castles in
						the air, which architecture can not do, and music is purely ideal.
					Sculpture, which is the representation of the beautiful in organic forms, next presents
						itself for our consideration. It is the most circumscribed of all the arts, being
						confined to the form of organic objects, but within its scope it is
						the most excellent. It can not deal with passion, and being denied color, it is limited
						in expression. Repose is its chief beauty. It is also limited in its grouping, as well
						as in its subjects. A sculptured landscape, as a work of art, is an impossible thing.
						This is for the painter. But sculpture has the important advantage over painting of
						being able to represent all sides of its object in the same work, while painting is
						confined to one. The antiquity of this art is as remote as that of architecture, and,
						like that, it lies imbedded in our devotional feelings. Indeed, the love of the
						beautiful and the adoration of the Supreme Being are feelings which lie close together
						in the human breast. Though sculpture, in its wider sense, has been associated with
						idolatry, it can not be said that it is much indebted to that misdirected feeling for
						its advancement.  The religion of Persia prohibited the
						representation of the human form, and in Egypt this art was very much shackled by a
						similar superstition. The same feeling prevails among the North American Indians. But in
						all rude nations, and in the earliest history of nations more polite, we find a strong
						disposition to carve out birds, beasts, monsters, and the figures of the gods they
						worship; yet almost uniformly coupled with a dread of representing the human face and
						figure. Notwithstanding these discouragements, however, the Egyptians attained some
						excellence in sculpture. They also labored under some other disadvantages. It appears
						that their personal figures and countenances were not the best models for sculpture;
						besides, by their laws, invention of every kind was prohibited. Such figures as they did
						produce were stiff and unnatural. All their works tended more to magnitude than
						excellence; they were more learned than artistic. The Phœnicians were more beautiful in
						person, and possessed a higher taste, but still they were apt to cover their statues
						with meretricious ornament. This partly, grew out of their commercial character, by
						which they obtained gold and gems from other regions. The Etrurians cultivated this art
						to a high degree of excellence--so much so, indeed, that some of their works have been
						taken for Greek productions. They excel in the statues of their gods. But it was
						reserved for the Greeks to bring this art to perfection, as it was that of architecture.
						The climate of Greece was calculated to develop every thing that is noble in human
						nature. The sense of the beautiful was livelier in the Greeks than in any other people
						that ever lived. They had their ideal standard of  beauty,
						gathered from all that is beautiful in the human form in its best development. The age
						of Pericles, Phidias, Socrates, Plato, and Xenophon was an epoch of genius. Phidias
						ornamented the temple of Jupiter. Praxiteles lived later, and was not less excellent. He
						combined softness and force, voluptuousness and modesty, purity and passion, so sweetly
						that the most insensible were touched, and the most sensitive not alarmed. The form of
						the celebrated Venus was stolen from Praxiteles. The Elgin marbles --these were by
						Phidias, however,--taken from the temple of Minerva, now in the British Museum, are a
						group of figures representing every form and position of the human figure. They will
						form studies for all future time.
					The Romans were too much engaged in war, and were too ambitious, to admire the repose
						of art. They did nothing in sculpture worthy of their fame. Finding the Greek works so
						beautiful, they contented themselves with collecting and copying them. Sculpture
						degenerated in their hands, as did also architecture. They, however, produced some good
						statues of their great men, but did not excel in ideal art. Modern Italy, however,
						revived sculpture, and it has attained there a higher excellence than in any other
						nation. England, France, Germany, Spain, and America possess artists of great eminence,
						but no modern nation can be said to possess any sculpture of its own. Whatever the
						nation or the subject, if the sculpture be good, it will be Grecian. Powers' Greek slave
						is as completely Grecian as though it had been the work of Phidias or Praxiteles; and
						although America has very little good sculpture, this specimen must be regarded as one
						of the very finest in art, ancient  or modern. It is indeed
						a study. There she stands, the picture of innocence; her modesty outraged, the victim of
						wrong, clothed in her own purity, grieving in stone! Yet in that sweet but sad
						expression, we see a touching appeal to Justice and a firm reliance on Eternal
						right.
					Painting, which represents the beautiful with color, will claim our attention next. No
						nation has ever been found that had not the rudiments of this art in its earliest
						period. Indeed, form, light, shade, and color exists every where, and to copy these is
						to paint. It is not surprising, therefore, that painting in some rude way, if it
						consisted in nothing more than marking out objects by lines, following the shadows they
						cast upon the plain, would exist very early in the history of man. There is a romantic
						story told of a young girl who traced the shadows of her lover's face upon the wall as
						he sat in silence contemplating their separation; and this, it has been said, was the
						origin of painting. The walls of Babylon were found covered with representations of
						natural objects, animals, hunting scenes, and combats. Painting existed in Egypt
						eighteen or nineteen hundred years before the Christian era, and, indeed, it had then
						attained nearly the hightest point of Egyptian skill; but it afterward fell under the
						control of the priests, and degenerated so that, in the time of the Ptolemies, the
						wisest period in Egypt, it was confined principally to hieroglyphics and representations
						of their monstrous and absurd gods. The arts have ever followed the same track-- from
						the East to Egypt, and into Greece; thence to Rome, and ultimately into Europe
						generally; thence to America. They have ever been found in the wake of science and
						civilization. Light first broke from  the East, flowed into
						Egypt, through Greece and Rome, and down to the present period. There were no families
						of nations then, giving light to one another, as we find them in modern times. One
						succeeded the other, and appeared to rise upon its ruins.
					The Greeks were worshipers of the beautiful; it was a part of their religion. The
						artist imagined that in proportion as he succeeded in representing beauty; he received
						the blessings of the gods. Beauty bore off the prizes at their games. Beautiful children
						were blessed, and the Lacedamonian ladies ornamented their bedrooms with a view of
						obtaining the prize. Art could but prosper in such a climate as Greece, and with such a
						people so devoted to beauty. Their artists were philosophers, and their philosophers
						were artists. Socrates declared the artists to be the only wise men. Their pursuits,
						amusements, wisdom, and even wars, were devoted to the beautiful.
					Painting run the same course in Rome as did scultpture. It was transplanted from Greece
						and degenerated at once. In the most learned and polite age of Rome, Augustus tried to
						retrieve the arts, but in vain. The spirit had gone from the earth for a time. The
						Romans had not only degraded arts, but they degraded artists, holding them as slaves.
						The walls of Herculaneum and Pompeii displayed scenes which put even Babylon to the
						blush. But if this art died in ancient Rome, it was reserved for modern Italy to revive
						it in all its splendor. Italy in painting has surpassed all nations, ancient and modern.
						All modern nations, indeed, have surpassed the ancients in this art, for it must be
						remembered that painting in oil-- the only mode by which the highest excellence can be
						attained--was not known till after Greece and Rome  had
						passed away. I am aware that the use of oil in painting was not unknown to the Romans,
						Greeks, and even Egyptians, but oil painting was not practiced in art before the
						fifteenth century. The Florentine school, which was founded by Leonardo da Vinci, and
						followed by Michael Angelo, is one of the most celebrated. The characteristics of this
						school are grandeur, dignity, and spirit. The Venetian school is celebrated for its
						fascination in coloring. The Venetian artist will seize upon the most beautiful and
						brilliant scene in nature, and make it still more beautiful and brilliant with his
						pencil. Titian is the grand master of this department.
					The modern Roman school has attained great excellence, particularly in accuracy of
						drawing, and general correctness; so much so, indeed, that critics have sometimes
						thought that it weakened the vigor and tamed the beauty of their efforts. Majesty and
						bold effect appear to be the object of this school, treating mere coloring as a
						secondary consideration. The Bolognese school was founded on the principles of
						eclecticism. This idea is generally captivating in all the arts and sciences--especially
						to the uninitiated--but it treads closely upon the empirical, and its unsettled practice
						is too apt to destroy all principle. Corregio and Guido may be mentioned as eminent in
						this department. The Dutch and Flemish schools are celebrated for representing nature in
						her common garb, and for not choosing the highest subjects of art, but often, indeed,
						portraying the lowest scenes. In this department, however, they have excelled, and
						produced some of the most life-like and surprising effects. But the English Hogarth has
						excelled even the masters of these schools in the striking force and intense  effect of his pictures. But Hogarth was not well received by
						contemporaneous artists. They thought him ill-bred and scantily educated, which was
						doubtless true, yet in his own department he has never been equaled. It is true that he
						never chose the highest subjects of art, but his mode of treatment made ample amends for
						this deficiency, and art could almost better spare her greatest master than her Hogarth.
						He also engraved his own pictures. His "Distressed Poet" and "Enraged Musician" are
						perfectly inimitable; and his "Rake's Progress" and "Marriage a la Mode" contain in
						themselves the history of human nature. A number of his most characteristic pictures,
						however, have ceased to be produced, on account of the more fastidious taste of later
							times.* But England, France,
						and America can not be said to have schools of painting of their own, although they have
						produced eminent masters in all the departments; indeed, this may be the reason why they
						have not established any exclusive school, and perhaps it is as well, for any peculiar
						school can have no other effect than to narrow the field of art. Germany has founded a
						late school, having a great tenacity for the elementary principles of the
						art--characteristic of the German mind; but it is thought by some that this leads to too
						much stiffness, *The
							celebrated Kit-Cat Club may be mentioned here. This club was composed not wholly of
							artists, but eminent men in various departments of learning, having for its ostensible
							object the encouragement of art and literature, but really for the secret purpose of
							opposing the arbitrary measures of James II. Sir Godfrey Kneller was one of its
							founders and leaders, and painted the portraits of all the members on canvas of
							particular dimensions, ever since known as the Kit-Cat size.
						 and excludes that easy flowing grace which is the very
						sweetness of a picture. In England, Sir Joshua Reynolds, notwithstanding his exploded
						theory that beauty consisted in mediocrity, attained great eminence as a painter.
						Although he painted many historical pieces, yet he particularly excelled in portraits.
						Sir Thomas Lawrence was also eminent in the same department, and perhaps scarcely
						inferior to Reynolds. But I can not stop to name even half of the eminent English
						artists. America has had her West, though appropriated by England--he was not unlike
						Reynolds --her Coply, Peale, Stuart, Trumbull, Dunlap, Melborne, Alston, Cole, second to
						none in their several departments; and now has many eminent living artists whom I may
						not name. But I have said that America, as France and England, has no peculiar school of
						painting. Rome is the Parnassus to which all modern artists make their pilgrimage; the
						Helicon, with its ever flowing Hippocrene, from which they derive their inspiration.
					Music, which represents the beautiful in sound,-- the next subject for our considration
						as an art,--is extremely ancient, but the science upon which it rests is of modern date.
						The origin of this art, as we have seen, is attributed to many ingenious, but most
						likely fabulous sources. Throughout Jewish history, both sacred and profane, we find
						frequent mention of music, both vocal and instrumental. Music in a rude state must have
						been coeval with man. The first utterances of joy were doubtless musical. They were not
						arranged in a set piece, certainly, but they were in accordance with some of the
						intervals of the musical scale. Indeed, any one who is curious upon the subject  will be able to detect musical intervals in the glad shouts
						of noisy boys in the street. Music is woven in man's nature, as are the elements of all
						the arts, and discoverable in his earliest history. Plato tells us that music was taught
						to the youth of Egypt. He is corroborated by Strabo. The art of the musician was
						hereditary, and the songs were regulated by law. Amongst the musical instruments
						mentioned in Egyptian history are the lyre, the flute, and the drum. The Ptolemies
						encouraged music, and some of them were performers. The father of Cleopatra took the
						name of Auletes, which means a player on the flute. This art continued
						to be practiced throughout the period of Egypt, but, for want of some mode of writing
						it, no example has been preserved to modern times.
					In treating of Grecian music, we must be careful not to misunderstand the meaning of
						the term as used by the Greeks. They included not only music proper, but poetry,
						eloquence, and even grammar--in fact, all the polite accomplishments--under the name of
						music. The word comes from the Muses, and embraces, in its Greek meaning, every thing
						that was taught by the patronage of the Muses. As much as the Greeks talked of music, it
						can not be said that they had any, in the sense in which we understand the term in
						modern art. This arose, doubtless, from the fact that they had not discovered the
						science on which it rests, and without which the art can never rise to any eminence.
						They had a variety of instruments but none of them were constructed on scientific
						principles; they were mere experiments, made without a guide. The Grecian harp was an
						improvement on the Jewish, but it had only seven strings, and its scale is not known at
							 this day. They had no mode of writing music, and we are
						therefore not able to form any idea of its style. Homer mentions several musical
						instruments in the Iliad, and the paintings of that period give us their forms, but,
						unfortunately, we can not discover upon what scale they were constructed. Plato
						describes a young musician turning the pegs of his instrument, which would indicate that
						they raised or lowered the tone by tightening or loosening the string, the mode
						practiced at the present day on all stringed instruments. Pericles patronized music, as
						it was thought to be a necessary part of education. Not to understand it, indeed, at
						that period, and not to play on some instrument, would have been regarded as a great
						lack in accomplishments. With the downfall of Greece, music also fell. Its echo found
						its way to Rome, but the Romans never brought the art to as high a cultivation as the
						Greeks. In the polite age of Augustus, even, music was not encouraged. Tiberius banished
						the musicians from the city; Caligula recalled them, and Nero fiddled while Rame burned.
						Music and the other arts fell withi Rome; and, notwithstanding the high civilization
						which had preceded, mankind sank to degradation and slavery. The arts were lost, liberty
						was lost, all that ennobles man was lost; superstition, with her vicegerents, held her
						reign. During five hundred years the human race were denied the liberty of mind, of
						conscience, and of limb. With the revival of learning, hope broke again upon the world,
						and from that hour mnkind have been gradually asserting and gaining their rights before
						God. With the revival of learning, Italy revived the arts, and to her we are indebted
						for the  highest culture in music. It is a singular fact
						that the tones of an instrument are better in Italy than they are from the same
						instrument, or from the human voice, in any other region. This is doubtless owing to the
						greater purity and weight of the atmospheric column in that country. The atmosphere is
						the medium of sound, and the higher the column and greater its weight, the more perfect
						will be the musical tone. To Guido, in the eleventh century, is generally attributed the
						invention of musical notes, and the stave upon which they are written, similar to those
						used at the present time. This was a great step in the advancement of music. It is now
						written in a universal language, understood alike by all nations. The world is thus
						indebted to Italy for its music. Germany, however, caught up the strain, and bids fair
						to equal her instructor, if, indeed, she has not already done so. In no country is music
						so generally cultivated as in Germany. It is taught to every pupil, even in her
						gratuitous schools. Her composers stand in the highest rank, and in Beethoven she has
						produced the greatest musical genius that ever lived. In France, music is highly
						appreciated, and has its professors of great eminence; but I am not aware that she has
						ever produced a composer of the first class. She copies from Italy, as the whole world
						has done. England is even behind France in original and native composers. Though music
						has been cultivated at every period of her history, she has not attained any remarkable
						excellence in the art. Henry VIII was said to have been a composer, and the reign of
						Elizabeth was celebrated for the cultivation of music. It became almost extinct in the
						time of Cromwell.  After the restoration, however, it was
						again revived; but England, like France, has generally brought her music and professors
						from Italy and Germany. Although music, as an art, has not flourished so highly in
						England, yet, as a science, the musical scale has there received profound investigation;
						and England has furnished the best history of the art written by Chappell. America, as
						yet, has no music of her own. She has not produced a single composer of high rank, nor
						an artist of the first excellence. This is not surprising, however, considering her
						national youth, especially if we cast our eye to England and France. But, within the
						last forty years, music in this country has made rapid advances. Instrumental music
						throughout the world, within that time, has received wonderful aid by the invention and
						improvement of musical instruments. Seventy years ago there was not a perfect musical
						instrument in the world, except the violin and its kindred family; nor was there then a
						single master of this instrument. Paganini was the first, and, in some respects, the
						greatest. In purity of taste and thoroughly artistic performance, none have excelled Ole
						Bull. The theory by which these cebrated artists produced surprising efects was before
						known to scientific musicians, but its accomplishment in practice had been thought to be
						beyond reach; and, indeed, the theoretic musician still sees in the violin a perfection
						which has not yet been attained. It has taken three centuries to bring this wonderful
						instrument to its present practical excellence, and, as perfect as it is, after three
						centuries more shall have elapsed, there will still be room for further practical
						improvement-- so wonderful is the capacity of this instrument! The  Saxons, Danes, Welsh, and Norwegians were very fond of music, and held the
						harp in high estimation. In Wales, a gentleman's harp was not liable to be seized for
						debt, because the want of it would degrade him from his rank. This beautiful instrument
						is the oldest on record, and figuratively stands for music itself.
					The Chinese have a system of music peculiar to themselves. Their scale is supposed to
						resemble that of the early Greeks, or the more modern Scottish scale, but what the Greek
						scale was is left to conjecture. It is said that the intervals in the Chinese scale are
						arbitrary; so Dr. Burney thinks, and, as far as I know, it is so laid down by modern
						writers; but this is a mistake. The interval of the first, second, fourth, fifth, and
						sixth, in the Chinese scale, counting from the key-note, ascending, correspond with the
						same intervals in the true diatonic scale. It has a third, however, arbitrarily placed
						about half-way between the second and and the fourth, and a seventh placed in a similar
						manner between the sixth and eighth. This third corresponds neither with the major nor
						minor third, nor does the seventh correspond with the flat or sharp seventh in the true
						scale. The North American Indians have a scale similar to that of the Chinese. Any one
						who understands the subject, and will listen to their rough groaning chants, or will
						examine their rude flutes will be convinced of the fact. But it is incorrect to talk of
						an arbitrary scale that will produce music. The musical scale is as fixed as the laws
						that govern the planets; and it were as absurd in science to talk of an arbitrary scale
						in music as of an arbitrary law in gravitation, or an arbitrary  law in mathematics. The Chinese, however, are poor musicians. They have no
						knowledge of harmony, and neither their music nor their instruments are worthy the least
						attention in art or science. It is a curious problem--music being so natural to man--
						that a nation as old as the Chinese has made no further advancement in this pleasing
						art. It must be accounted for by the fact that they have no knowledge of the science on
						which it is based.

					But music, in its highest aims, is the most exclusive of all the arts. There are fewer
						master composers than masters in any other art. Indeed there never was but one
						Beethoven. And no artist ever has, or ever can, reach the full capacity of the art. It
						would be to exhaust infinity. It may sound strange to say that music exists in mind, and not in sound; but there is nothing in
						science or art more true. Many can enjoy music to the eye as well as to the ear, as we
						may read mentally without uttering a word. Beethoven, after he became deaf, composed and
						played admirably; and he would sometimes fairly go into ecstasies over the score without
						an instrument near him. And the science upon which music rests is more occult, and
						understood by a fewer number, than any other branch of learning. Many may tell you
						glibly that the steps in the musical scale obey certain laws, and are placed at certain
						intervals, and that the tones in the concords stand in the relation of 1 to 2, 2 to 3, 3
						to 4, 4 to 5, and 5 to 6, and show their ratios of vibration; but this is not as much as
						the alphabet of the learning connected with the subject. It embraces mathematics in all
						its branches--numbers, quantities, relations; all the regular geometrical figures, and
						all aliquot ratios; indeed the law which governs the musical scale  pervades the universe as far as the finite mind can reach and grasp the
						knowledge. Yet, up to a certain degree, everybody understands and appreciates music; but
						this is only the sensuous effect of the sound, not the mental perception of the subject;
						and between such and those who have entered the arcanum there is no
						communication. It requires profound and patient study to understand the science of
						music, and patient, long, and loving practice to attain excellence in the art; yet these
						hard terms do not deny our common nature its enjoyment in simple melodies and harmonious
						sounds. They do not rob the milkmaid of her voice, the peasant of his pipes, nor the
						minstrel of his harp. We can enjoy the sky without being astronomers, love flowers and
						not understand botany, and praise God, though we are not sages.
					Poetry will now claim our attention. It is the representation of the beautiful in
						thought. The elements of poetry are abroad throughout the universe, and are continually
						moving the soul. Every thing grand and terrible, every thing soft and pleasing, every
						thing true end pure, every thing sweet and delicate, every thing bright and beautiful,
						contains the spirit of poetry. Man, surrounded with the objects of creation, must have
						early felt the poetic influence. It is a favorite theory with critics, indeed, that
						poetry preceded prose; but if they mean to say that poems preceded prose compositions,
						it seems to me they must be mistaken. A poem presents to the mind a finished image, and
						it can not be that the first efforts of the human faculties resulted in such a
						production. Language, doubtless first broke forth in bold metaphor  and striking similes, highly poetical, but any production worthy the name of
						a poem must have been of a later age. It may be that excessive refinement tames the
						spirit of poetry, but it needs something better than the untutored yearnings of the
						struggling soul to give it shape.
					The poetry of the Hebrews is the oldest on record. Its characteristics are boldness and
						grandeur; its spirit is highly lyrical, though it has not the form of the classic ode.
						In fervent feeling and majestic thought, no poetry has equaled it. To the modern mind it
						seems abrupt and unconnected, and clothed in a profusion of imagery; but it must be
						admitted that if it has not the rounded form and polished finish of the classic models,
						it has more fervency and force. To the Hebrew, leading his pastoral life, the creation
						was new, and his images would naturally be bold. His poetry, therefore, would be like
						the gem fresh from the mine, which might be improved by art, but would necessarily lose
						in the process some of its weight and substance. The Hebrew mind was necessarily formed
						under the peculiar dispensation to which that favored people were subject, while the
						Greek mind was molded by mythology, which deified material beauty, and the effect of
						these causes are plainly seen in their poetry. Hebrew poetry is spiritual and
						subjective; Greek poetry is artistic and objective. The former is based on the internal
						emotions of the soul; the latter appeals to the soul through the external senses; and in
						this difference the Hebrew must have the preference even over the Greek. Homer is always
						given as the earliest exponent of Greek poetry, yet bards lived and sang before the days
						of Homer. His great poem, the  Iliad, has been so much
						noticed that I will pass it by with this single remark, that, like all epics, it is
						rather studied by the few than read by the many. Greek lyrical poetry possessed great
						fire and spirit, and attained a high excellence; but it must be admitted that it smacked
						too much of Venus and the vine. The fire of Sappho's love would never be acknowledged by
						a modern lady, nor would the bacchanalian spirit of Anacreon be excused in a modern
						gentleman. Pindar reached a purer excellence, but he was too artificial; and his
						devotion to splendor and power will forever deny him mastery over the universal
						heart.
					The tragic drama was brought to perfection by Æschylus, soon after which Alexander
						conquered Greece, and poetry passed away. Pastoral poetry afterwards, however, attained
						to excellence under the hands of Theocritus, but the spirit of Greece had departed never
						to return. During the first five centuries of Rome she had no poetry. Indeed, Rome
						copied her poetry from Greece, as she did her architecture and sculpture. Virgil is the
						Homer of Rome, and Catullus the Anacreon. There never was but one Sappho. The torch of
						poetry was stricken down by the fall of the Roman empire, and smoldered in the ruins of
						the dark ages for many centuries. Its returning light was first seen in Dante. Then came
						Petrarch. The former represented the grand; the latter the amatory. Ariosto blended the
						two. Tasso copied Homer and Virgil. He was also as devoted a lover as Petrarch, but
						fixed his affections on a more legitimate object. Spanish poetry is a mixture of the
						Latin and the eastern. The romantic chronicle of the Cid is the great Spanish epic. In
						Spain, ballad poetry is rich and romantic.  Villegas was
						the Anacreon and Catullus of Spain, and the last poet of true spirit she has produced.
						French poetry began in chivalric romance. Besides her dramas, which are of the highest
						order, France has no poetry of the first excellence. She has nothing worthy to be called
						an epic, the Henriade having been denied that high position. Her lyric
						poetry is artificial and empty. Beranger, however, has brought that branch of the art to
						great excellence. His muse possesses fire and also finish--a rare combination; but I
						fear that it is too much colored by the times in which he wrote, and partakes too much
						of the political spirit, to ever become classical. The present French poets have shown
						fine genius. The early poetry of Germany was heroic. Then came the minne-singers, which
						were bands of minstrels similar to the troubadours. They sang of love. Then came the
						meistersingers, who sang less of love and more of morals. After the time of these
						wandering bards, there was a period of more than two hundred years, during which Germany
						produced not a single poet. Indeed, it was reserved for Klopstock, in the last century,
						to reawaken her Muse. He was a true German, and taught his countryman the powers of
						their own genius. Wieland possessed fine powers, but he was as much a Frenchman as he
						was a German. Göthe and Schiller were the greatest poets Germany ever produced. The
						latter was her great dramatist. He also attained high eminence in the lyric and ballad.
						Göthe was not only Germany's greatest poet, but the most eminent character in modern
						literature. His early productions are full of soul, but yet a little mixed with the
						blood. His riper age, however, atoned for the errors of his  youth. The "Truth and Poetry" of his life shows the development of a beautiful mind
						and a great soul. His Faust is the grandest of human productions. It is not a drama to
						be acted--for it would require the universe as a stage, God, Satan, and angels as
						actors--but an epic to be read and studied. It grapples with the profound mysteries of
						Creation, Divinity, Humanity, and embraces the All.
					England had her early poetry, even before the Norman conquest, and although Gower first
						appeared above the horizon, yet Chaucer is considered her morning star. He flourished
						under Edward III. His Canterbury Tales, though doubtless suggested by the Decameron,
						display great originality and astonishing power. He possessed great invention, but his
						fancy --according to the definition of the term given in the beginning of our
						discourse--was not of the highest order. Spenser, who was the next great English poet in
						the order of time, possessed more fancy, still adhering to our definition, than any poet
						that ever lived. His imagination--that is, the constructive power--was not so good, for
						his fancy ran riot with the judgment. He produced more flowers than fruit. Dryden did
						much to establish the English language, but he can not stand in the highest poetical
						class; in him the critic was stronger than the poet. Pope was the most philosophical of
						poets, and yet the most artfficial in his style. Butler and Swift may be mentioned
						together, as wits, not as poets; though Swift was far the greater man. Gray and Collins
						have furnished us the most finished models of English verse. But when shall we stop? I
						have not mentioned Shakespeare nor Milton. Why? I would not stop to talk of the sun's
						brightness, nor the beauty of the stars; these are seen by all.  But what shall I say of poor, rich, wise, foolish, good, bad, erring, Burns?
						Nothing, but that he was the rarest genius ever born--not the greatest. "O, rare Rob
						Burns," were a more appropriate epitaph than "O, rare Ben Jonson." Byron's poetry was
						bred in the passions; there is too much blood in it; it is too full of "wine, women, and
						war," instead of soul, love, and patriotism. Wordsworth is a very antipode of Byron; his
						poetry is as deep, placid, and passionless as his own lake, Winandermere. Alexander
						Smith and Gerald Massie were the meteors of the moment--spoiled by the favor of the
						critics. Whether the present laureate--Tennyson--is a comet or a fixed star; or, if a
						star, of what magnitude, is yet to be determined. Morris, with his Earthly Paradise, is
						little more than nebula. Swinburn is a great orb, still aberrant in the poetical sky,
						but which, if it finds, its true orbit, will become a great light. But we can not
						mention all the poets of England which deserve attention.
					America has shown much poetic genius, and produced much good poetry with great deal of
						bad. Neither Greece, Rome, England, France, or Spain, nor any other race, or people, or
						nation, on earth, at her national age, had a single poet. But Columbia leaped from the
						mother country, like Minerva from the brain of Jupiter, at once into the full panoply of
						power. We have but one fixed star in poetry--Bryant --who, though not of the greatest
						magnitude, nor of the very brightest ray, has risen high above the horizon. Willis wrote
						much, but never got above mere prettiness. Morris wrote some songs, fashionable in their
						day. Saxe is no poet at all, but a wit of the first water. Halleck has written most
						excellent  things. Whittier writes for the million; he is a
						good poet, but not a great one. Longfellow is a poet of the highest culture, but not of
						the greatest genius. The translation of Göthe's Faust, by Bayard Taylor, is the best in
						the English language; in his own poetry he gives us the true American relish. We have
						many poets worthy of notice, but we are discoursing of poetry rather than of poets, and
						must pass on. So little attention will the scope of my discourse allow me to pay to the
						different branches of my subject, that I feel like one who has been hastening through a
						beautiful garden so rapidly as not to be able even to look at the separate flowers.
					We may now notice a few of the general principles which lie at the foundation of all
						art. Form and relation govern architecture--form of the whole and the relation of the
						parts. As we have remarked, there is no prototype in nature for architecture. The art
						consists in building from inorganic matter, structures beautiful in form, majestic in
						size, and grand in effect. Form and proportion are the objects to be obtained in
						sculpture; but this art is confined to organic prototypes in nature. No form is fit for
						sculpture unless it has once lived. Painting must represent form in superficies, and apparent form in solids. This is done by light and shade, or, in other
						words, by the quantity of light reflected from the different parts of
						the object, as the light and shade would appear in nature. Color is a great beautifier,
						but it is not indispensable to represent form. Light and shade are simply the various
						degrees of light which occur between black and white. Neither black nor white,
						philosophically speaking, is a color. White is the entire light, and black the entire
						absence of light.  If every thing in nature, above, below,
						and around us, were black, we could see nothing. We do not see black at all; it is
						defined negatively by what surrounds it. Light or shade therefore represents merely the
							quantity of light, while color represents its quality. It seems strange that form should be an essential in music--a thing
						which seems to have no more definitude than flowing water--yet nothing is more true. An
						unfinished piece of music is as defective as a broken statue. An artistic piece of music
						must have its beginning and ending, its parts and members, without which it would afford
						no more pleasure than a picture or a statue with the absence of some essential limb or
						feature. It is true that mere musical tone, without regard to any arrangement into a
						regular piece of music, is pleasing. So are random colors, flashing here and there; or
						curves, scrolls, and various figures; or separate thoughts, similes, or sentiments; but
						in neither instance do they represent works of art--they are merely the elements of art,
						out of which works of art are wrought. They touch emotions, but do not represent
						thought. Every tone in a piece of music must bear a certain relation to its key-note. To
						give the analysis of the musical scale would lead us too far from our subject. Suffice
						it to say that it has what is called its tonic, or key-note, to which every other note
						and chord must have a certain relation, which can not be departed from without
						introducing discord and confusion, and the musician's ear will trace this key-note
						throughout the most intricate and rapid piece of music, though it may have a score of
						different parts, and be performed by a hundred different instruments. This key-note may
						be changed to any other note in the scale by changing  this
						relation, which is done on instruments by means of flats and sharps, and in the human
						voice by its own natural adaptation. And every piece of music must conclude and repose
						on the key-note. If it did not, it would leave the ear in waiting for something more,
						and the soul in suspense and unsatisfied, which would be as unnatural to the sense of
						the beautiful as to represent a picture to the eye in a distorted shape, or a statue in
						a leaning or uneasy position.

					Although poetry is unshackled by science, and its elements are every-where, yet a poem
						must have its form as well as any other work of art. The image represented must be
						finished. Every piece of poetry, whether epic, dramatic, lyric, pastoral, or elegiac,
						must have its leading thought--which should be grand, bright, passionate, emotional--to
						which every other thought in the piece is subordinate. Because poetry is purely ideal,
						and not material, it does not follow that it has no form; for an idea has its form,
						proportions, and symmetry, as well as a material substance. Indeed, every material thing
						is but an ideal expressed in matter. Every thing must exist in idea before it takes a
						material form, and the ideal world is no less real than the actual. We might suppose,
						without impiety, we hope, that the universe existed in the mind of Deity before He spoke
						it into being. Man can form nothing in the world of matter, until the object first has
						its prototype in his mind. Indeed, the ideal world is the true world; it is the material
						world that is stubborn and distorted. The imagination is not like the axe, chisel, or
						brush; it finds no such stubborn stuff as wood, marble, or canvas, to work upon--all is
						plastic, and every thing yields to its power. In every true poem all the  minor ideas and images should be subservient to the grand
						idea or image which completes its form, as all the parts of a picture or the members of
						a statue go to complete the image, and without which it would not please; nor would a
						poem please, however beautiful and bright its parts might be, unless they all went to
						complete the grand idea or image in the mind. It is not fine thoughts, nor beautiful
						images alone, that make a work of art. How many grand poems have rough and unpolished
						lines; and how many poems, worthless as productions, have beautiful and finished parts?
						How many noble statues are roughly sculptured--that of Praxiteles which won the prize,
						affords an example--and how many polished ones are worthless? How many grand designs in
						painting are poorly finished, while others, failing in this, though delicately handled,
						fail as works of art? And so in architecture--it were vain to bring the marble, hew the
						blocks, turn the columns, form the arches, curve the architraves, and mold the cornice,
						unless each was fitted to its place, and the edifice erected. Thus we see that form lies
						at the foundation of all the arts.

					Taste is the faculty by which we, estimate the fine arts. It is sometimes called a
						finer judgment, but, we think, incorrectly. Judgment is the faculty by which we
						ascertain the unknown by the known; while in taste there is nothing known or settled,
						yet, by taking the voice of the human race, a standard is approximated. Taste is not an
						elegant word as applied to art or belles-lettres, but our language affords no other
						which expresses the same meaning. It is derived figuratively from the organ of taste in
						the mouth, popularly,  but erroneously, supposed to be the
						palate; and, of course, must be variable in its meaning to different persons, as
						individual tastes differ. The word, in its original meaning, is but little more refined
						than the word appetite, which has many, various, and uncertain
						meanings. The appetites of barbarians--it can scarcely be said that they have any
						tastes--are almost as uniform as those of the brute creation. In the lowest condition of
						the human race, man feeds an the uncooked food of nature, whether fruit or flesh; in the
						highest state of civilization, he has almost lost his original appetites by the
						artificial preparation of his food. So, in the rude, uncultivated mind, the natural
						tastes are all for physical action, force, daring, danger, bloodshed, and destruction;
						while in proportion as man becomes civilized and refined, his appetites are subdued by
						his tastes, and his passions are softened into emotions, and thus his mind and heart are
						gradually prepared for the appreciation of art; and it will be found, as a rule, that
						persons of the same degree of culture and refinement, whether it be high or low, will
						have essentially the same tastes. And thus it is that the relish of the mind and heart
						for the beautiful is called, not inappropriately, taste. As taste is ever variable,
						continually changing in nations from barbarism to civilization, and in individuals from
						the rude to the cultivated condition, and as criticism is founded on taste, it is not
						likely to ever become an established art--much less a science--in estimating works of
						art or belles-lettres. But criticism upon works referable to the understanding, instead
						of the imagination--to truth, instead of beauty --has solid ground to stand upon, and
						may become a  science as fixed as any other, except those
						which rest in the abstract. Critics of art and belles-lettres hold a high, delicate, and
						responsible office; yet "fools rush in where angels fear to tread." They are too apt to
						represent a school or a period--the great Ruskin was not wholly free from fractional
						defects--and sometimes nothing more than a faction, a clique, a person, or an occasion.
						They are seldom fully capable, and not always wholly honest; and much of their criticism
						is simply puerile. When Horace warned us not to put a horse's head on a man's body, he
						told us nothing but what children know. Art teaches criticism, not criticism art. If all
						the tastes df the human family were blended and refined by culture, the result would be
						the standard; and when we find a critic who in himself represents humanity, he will be
						able and worthy to judge of the beautiful.
					The comparative merits of the fine arts may now properly claim our attention for a
						short time, though to give preference between sisters, when all are so beautiful, seems
						almost invidious. Architecture is capable of producing the grandest effects, but it is
						confined to place. Specimens of this noble art can not be transported to different
						countries and exhibited to the eyes of whole nations. But few, comparatively, can see
						them, and there are but few specimens in existence. The Pyramids, St. Peter's, St.
						Paul's, the Cathedral, must remain forever where they are. They cost millions upon
						millions, and required ages upon ages to erect them; and their duplicates can not be
						produced, save at the same cost in expense and time required for the originals. These
						reasons must forever confine architecture to narrow limits, but within  those limits no art is so grand. The effect of sculpture is
						more delicate and definite in its expression. When we gaze upon a work of architecture
						we scarcely know what it is that affects us; but if we look upon a statue, we see the
						beautiful at once. And the specimens of sculpture are far more numerous than those of
						architecture, and may be removed from place to place without serious inconvenience.
						Hundreds may see the Apollo, the Venus, the Psyche, and the Slave, to where one can view
						the Pyramids, the dome of St. Peter's, the steeple of St. Paul's, or the spires at
						Milan. If sculpture is less grand than architecture, its effects are far wider and more
						pleasing. Painting produces the most intense effects of any of the arts. To be
						unexpectedly ushered into a gallery of paintings would startle the soul at once. The
						most intense passion, even to agony, may be portrayed in painting. Sculpture may not do
						this--it would be mere distortion; yet sculpture expresses the gentle emotions with fine
						effect. We associate a piece of sculpture with the past--with something hallowed,
						something that reposes--while painting brings the past to the present, representing life
						and animation, as if they were capable of action. Painting may represent the form and
						color of every object in nature, while sculpture is confined to form alone, and to types
						of beings that have lived. The subjects proper for the pencil are far more numerous than
						those suitable for the chisel, and copies may be taken with far greater ease, and, if we
						include engraving, may be multiplied to any number. Painting is not only more intense in
						its effects, but it has a wider range and is properly entitled to a higher rank than
						sculpture.  Music is peculiar in its effects. It tells no
						story, and expresses no definite thought, but fills the soul with emotion. In this it is
						quite similar in its effects to architecture. It is also sometimes capable of arousing
						passion, particularly with the power of association. Architecture, sculpture, and
						painting address them selves to the sight: music appeals to another sense. It finds the
						heart by many avenues inaccessible to the other arts. Other arts are fixed in form;
						music is forever flowing like a beautiful thing in nature; and yet, too, it has its form
						in which it must ultimately repose. It has neither height, shape, size, nor material,
						and is the sweetest and purest of all the arts. It is molten sentiment and liquid
						poetry. No place is made worse for its presence; it can not be degraded. Bad
						associations may accompany it, but, of itself, it never leads to wrong. All the arts,
						except music and architecture, may be used for vicious ends; these may not. In this they
						have a superiority over all the others. Nothing is more fleeting than music; yet if it
						is ever going, it is ever coming, too, and thus may ever be present. It is the soul of
						art without its body. All the arts reach the soul, but music is the soul itself. It is
						the only art that we attribute to the angels.
					Poetry possesses many advantages over all the other arts. While architecture is
						confined to place, sculpture and painting to single moments of time, and music to mere
						emotion, poetry has all places, all times, all emotions, all passions, all thoughts, all
						subjects, all things, which, can be represented to the human mind. Its productions may
						be multiplied without limit; and they reach the college, palace, cottage, cabin, and the
						hut. The other arts address  the external senses; poetry
						addresses the mind alone. It reaches the senses through the mind, while the other arts
						reach the mind through the senses; and all, except poetry and music, are embodied in
						matter. Poetry includes all the powers of the other arts, and if it could not be
						degraded to improper purposes, would be all that the purest soul on earth could
						wish.
					But the object of all the fine arts is the same-- namely, to please the sense of the
						beautiful in our nature--although each effects the end by different means; and while we
						think their comparative merits stand in the order named, we should nevertheless love and
						cherish them all, for each has some peculiar excellence which the others never can
						supply.
					As nature, in all its stupendous greatness and infinite variety, is composed of a very
						few elements, so art, in all its beauty and variety, is formed by a very few principles.
						Simply the line and curve will account for every shape in architecture or sculpture; and
						in painting every material object in the universe can be represented by only three
						colors and their combinations. Mankind has been singing on the musical scale, which
						contains but seven sounds, ever since the creation, and the variety is still
						exhaustless; and with a few letters, not exceeding eleven vowel sounds, perhaps, in all
						the languages--for the consonants are nothing but the vowels with a peculiar beginning
						or termination--every possible thought within the range of intellect, and every object
						or image in the ideal or material world, may be represented by poetry. How few the
						principles, how endless the variety, how vast the domain of art! And nature  herself, in all her works, is but the Art of God. The
						heavens are His architecture; His statuary is man, formed in His own image. His painting
						is on the earth and in the sky; the harmony of the rolling spheres is His music; and His
						poetry is universal and eternal praise.
					The national importance of the arts is plainly seen throughout all the nations we have
						thus incidentally noticed. How much more we know of Greece and Rome than we do of the
						Eastern nations, or even of Egypt, whence they drew so much of their learning. This is
						attributable to the state of the arts in these two celebrated nations. They have
						governed the world during many centuries, not by their arms, nor so much by their laws,
						but by their arts. What would Greece and Rome have been at this day without their
						architecture, sculpture, and poetry? Nothing. In what, except in these and eloquence,
						were they superior to other ancient nations? Nothing. It is time for America to assume a
						higher rank than her present position in the most enduring of human things--the arts.
						Our hills and valleys teem with genius, and our country with subjects. Our land and its
						history invite the pencil, and our heroes, statesmen, philosophers, artists, and poets
						the chisel. The glorious deeds of our fathers are worthy of the American harp. We have a
						new continent, and we are a new people, making the last experiment of free government
						that ever will be tried--for there are no more continents to discover; and it becomes us
						not only to be free in arms, but free in thought, and free in art, and independent in
						all. We have asserted our national and personal liberty, but this alone does  not satisfy the soul. We are citizens of the Republic of
						America--that secures our rights; let us become citizens of the Republic of
						Letters--that will elevate our minds; and let us be lovers of art--that will ennoble our
						nature. These sacred privileges and high attainments aid one another; and without their
						mutual support, America can never fulfill her mission amongst the nations of the
						earth.
				

				
				
					
						THE DEFINITION OF POETRY.
					
					

					Poetry is older than civilization. It can be plainly traced to the earliest history of
						man. Although the world is very well agreed as to what is poetry and what is not, where
						specimens are given, yet during many ages philosophers and critics have been endeavoring
						to give us a definition of poetry without succcess. It is true that, throughout the
						philosophical and critical writings of the past, we find many definitions of poetry
						approximately correct, yet none that are complete. A definition of any subject should
						include every thing that belongs to the subject, and exclude every thing that does not.
						It should be sufficiently comprehensive to embrace every example or specimen of the
						thing defined, and yet so exact as to reject every example or specimen not belonging to
						the same class. It is not sufficient to give an example of the subject; some rule must
						be established by which every example of the same kind may be measured and known. Nor is
						it enough that every example will go into the definition--it must fill it. Every example
						must fill the rule, and the rule must embrace every example. Such a definition is
						perfectly attainable in the exact sciences, which are governed by principles every-where
						and forever the same. It is comparatively (46)  attainable
						in philosophy, which rests upon experience and observation, where the bases of induction
						are wide and general, although not founded on abstract principles. As we rise into the
						regions of taste, the laws of which are supposed to be less certain and settled, it
						becomes more and more difficult; yet taste has been called but a finer judgment. Our
						subject lies within the last domain, and is therefore one of acknowledged
						difficulty.
					Before we attempt a definition of poetry, it may be well to ascertain what may, and
						what may not, be defined; and see whether our object falls within the latter or is
						included in the former. Man's mind being fnite, the field of human knowledge is
						necessarily limited. Concerning the things which lie wholly beyond this limit, the mind
						can have no idea or conception. These, therefore, can not be defined. Whatever lies
						partly within this region we may understand more or less perfectly, in proportion to the
						degree of clearness in which it is manifested to us, and therefore it may be more or
						less perfectly defined, in the same degree. But whatsoever lies wholly within the
						compass of human knowledge, it would seem ought to be susceptible of a clear and
						distinct definition. For example: man well knows whence comes his body, for its elements
						are all around him. He sees it built up, he sees it stand, he sees it fall, he sees it
						crumble even to dissolution. The body, therefore, can be clearly defined, for it lies
						wholly within his knowledge. But the mind, during its earthly period, reaches in vain
						toward the source of its being; and the soul yearns in vain to know its destiny. It
						passes across our field of knowledge, but it comes from beyond and goes beyond.  The soul, therefore, can be but imperfectly defined, because
						it can not all be known. Neither can the mind nor any of its separate faculties, as
						judgment, or imagination, be defined. Of the essence of the mind, we can form no
						conception. The subject is beyond our comprehension. It is the mind acting upon itself.
						Its beginning and ending lie far beyond our field of view. It comes within our knowledge
						mysteriously, operates before us mysteriously, and departs from us mysteriously. All is
						mystery conerning it. The effects and productions of the mind, however, are plain, and
						may be clearly defined. The most we can say of the judgment as a distinct faculty is,
						that it is the power by which we judge. The mode of judging, and the thing judged of,
						are apparent to us, and may be defined; but the. faculty itself escapes our
						apprehension. Of the imagination, we can only say, that it is that faculty of the mind
						by which we select, arrange and combine, either in the ideal or real world, thus forming
						new images, pictures figures, and relations, not found in the order of things when
						nature is left to herself. No definition of either of the original senses can be given.
						No idea of light can be conveyed to one who never saw; and no idea of sound can be given
						to one who never heard. How idle the effort to make one understand the fragrance of a
						flower who never had the sense of smell. In these instances the things attempted to be
						defined have never been brought within the field of knowledge known to the persons to
						whom the definitions are addressed. Nor can we understand the powers of nature; her
						productions, however, are well understood and may be defined. How easy to classify  the trees and flowers, yet who can define the principle
						which produces them; or the operation by which they are produced? Instinct, also, is a
						principle which defies all examination. The bird builds its nest and the bee forms its
						cell, without ever having been taught, and their first effort is equal to their last.
						Can the bird or the bee tell us why? Can man in his prouder wisdom--and prouder only
						because it is blinder--proclaim it to us? No. The subject lies beyond his field of
						knowledge; yet how easy to define the nest; and the bee's cell, being a geometrical
						figure, is as uniform and fixed as science itself. All the causes--which operate either
						in the mental or physical world transcend the human understanding, yet all the
						productions of these causes which fall within the scope of human knowledge may be
						defined. Poetry, then, although produced by faculties which can not be perfectly
						defined, yet being a production, which, as a production merely, lies wholly within the
						compass of human knowledge, would seem, if our views be correct, to be susceptible of a
						clear and complete definition.
					Having ascertained what may, and what may not be defined, and finding poetry included
						in the former, we will next endeavor to traoe the distinction which divides the fine
						arts from the useful. Art, in general terms, is the adaptation of the things in nature
						to the wants, comforts and pleasures of man. Such of the arts as simply supply our wants
						and comforts are called the useful arts. Such arts as administer to the pleasure of the
						soul, without reference to our ordinary wants and comforts, are termed the fine arts.
						The former refer exclusively to the conditions of the body, and are operated principally
						by manual labor;  the latter refer exclusively to the
						pleasures of the soul, and are mainly the productions of the mind. Art is sometimes
						regarded as the antithesis of science. This may not be improper, speaking generally, but
						it is not critically correct. Science supports art; there is nothing antagonistic
						between them. Science prescribes the rules of which art is but the example. Indeed, the
						words art and science are sometimes convertible
						terms. Art and philosohy ae antitheses. Philosophy studies things as they are; art
						changes them with a view to their adaptation to the wants and pleasures of man. In the
						useful arts man adapts the common and useful things in nature to supply his wants and
						enhance his comforts, without reference to the beautiful; in the fine arts, he seizes
						upon the beautiful in nature, and adapts it to the pleasures of his soul, without
						reference to the useful. The immediate aim, then, in the useful arts is usefulness,
						while the immediate aim in the fine arts is beauty. But what is beauty? A definition of
						beautyr, like that of poetry, has engaged the attention of the first-class of minds in
						all polite nations during the whole period of letters, snd with no better success than
						in the case of poetry. For ontselves, we regard beauty as being classed with those
						objects of which we can give but imperfect definitions, because they do not lie wholly
						within the limit of human knowledge. Nature, it is true, is the common storehouse to
						which most writers refer us for the beautiful, but, unfortunately, when we resort to
						that great repository we find much there that is not beautiful. Our design requires us
						to use the word beauty only in its artistic sense. We might humbly conceive that before
						the mind of omniscience  the whole universe is beautiful;
						for there is no part in it, which man may choose to call deformity, but what is
						necessary to the beauty of the whole. Yet the world is full of beauty even to man. It is
						forever abroad, on the mountains, in the mine, on the sea, in the cave, over the earth,
						and in the sky; all see it, all feel it, all know it, all love it; yet none can tell
						what it is. While we do not believe, with a late philosophic writer, that "the
						lineaments of beauty, by which the eye is flattered and the ear regaled, are as
						determinate as any position in mathematics," and while we do not believe that beauty is
						susceptibly of a complete definition, we yet by no means despair of pointing out its
						causes, and showing where the secret lies.
					Among the vast multitude add diversity of things in nature, we find some that uniformly
						affect us with pleasure, a few that affect us with pain, but toward the great majority
						of the number we stand indifferent in these respects. Any of these things toward which
						we usually remain indifferent, are capable of affecting us either with pleasure or pain,
						as they may happen to be related to, or associated with, the things that intrinsically
						affect us with pleasure or pain.*
						Every one is sensible that there is something within himself which leads him to prefer
						the statue to the block, the picture to the canvas, the edifice to the hovel, the
						harmony to the discord, the poem to the story. The same effect takes place if we descend
						into the mere elements of beauty. Who does not prefer to look upon a circle rather than
						an eccentric; a *May it not
							have been this fact that misled Diderot in attributing beauty to relation? and deceived Jeffrey in placing it in association?
						 square, octagon, or polygon, rather than an irregular
						figure; a cube or sphere rather than a rough mass? In the scroll, curve, wave, and many
						other figures, unconnected with any thing else, there is an intrinsic power of beauty.
						Hogarth's celebrated line of beauty is an example. Certain colors affect us with a
						sensible pleasure, while others are repulsive; and certain combinations of colors are
						harmonious, while others are discordant. And who does not love the flower above the
						weed? Every one will notice, also, that the emotion awakened by beautiful objects is
						always the same in kind, whatever may be the difference between the objects that awaken
						it, or however much the emotion itself may differ in degree. What can be more unlike
						than a piece of music, a landscape, and a statue. Yet the pleasure which we derive from
						any one of these is the same in kind as that afforded by either of the others; there may
						be a difference in the degree of the pleasure. The beautiful in nature and the beautiful
						in art always affect us in the same way, for art is really but a transcript of the
						things in nature, only sometimes in different combinations. The peculiar pleasure which
						we derive from a thrill of harmony, a fine passage in a poem, a countenance that loves
						us, or a glimpse of the sky, is ever the same. The sense of the beautiful is as palpable
						and uniform in the soul, whatever may be the object that awakens it, as the sensation of
						heat is to the body, whether it be excited by a fire, the sun, or a fever. The emotion
						of the beautiful, then, always being the same, while the objects which awaken it are so
						diversified, is the quality of the beautiful inherent in the objects themselves, or is
						it some quality within us which the objects  are capable of
						awakening? We do not hesitate to give our adherence to the theory that attributes beauty
						to the perceptions of the mind and the feelings of the soul, instead of that which
						refers it to the form, material, and qualities of the objects themselves. Beauty no more
						belongs to matter than color is inherent in the rose. It is the mind that perceives the
						object of beauty, and the soul that feels its effect. When we view a statue for a length
						of time, and take in its full effect, the mind perceives, and the soul feels that there
						is something beyond the marble. The beauty is not in the statue, it is something that
						shines through it. It was a beautiful remark of the sculptor when he said that he did
						not make his statues--he only rescued them from the quarry; that is; he only shaped the
						marble so that beauty, which is ever shining, could appear through it, and make us
						sensible of her presence. In viewing a painting in the same way, do we not see something
						above the mere canvas, color, light and shade? If we do not, then we have not learned
						the art of appreciating art. And there is a soul in music beyond and above the mere
						sound. The cultivated musician (I do not mean the mere performer, for one may understand
						and appreciate art without having the power to practice it), after long study, has
						taught his ear to give attention to a thousand tones at once and learned his mind to
						grasp the various combinations of the harmony at one view, enjoys an intellectual
						delight and a soul-felt pleasure, infinitely superior to the mere sensuous effect of the
						sound itself, The works of art are but the body and features of beauty, through which we
						see her soul.


					

					Sometimes the sublime is treated of as something different from the beautiful. We can
						not help but regard this division as unsound in philosophy. It appears to us that the
						sublime is merely a quality of the beautiful, as the picturesque, the delicate, the
						spirited, the forcible, the subdued; and is no more different from beauty itself than
						either of these qualities --just as the wonder we feel is the same, whether excited by
						the telescope in viewing a distant orb, or by the microscope in showing us an inhabited
						drop of water.
					By the word useful we mean every thing the object of which is to supply a want of the
						body, or afford a good to that part of our nature which perishes. There is, undoubtedly,
						a beauty in usefulness, and a usefulness in beauty; but whatever usefulness there may be
						in "a thing of beauty," we still class it with the beautiful; and whatever beauty there
						may be in a thing of usefulness, it still properly belongs to the useful. The usefulness
						of beauty, or the beauty of usefulness, is a mere incident; it is never necessary to the
						thing itself, and may be dispensed with, without essential injury to the purpose,
						design, or end, for which it is made. And although the useful and the beautiful are
						often thus found in conjunction, yet the distinction--that the one belongs to the soul
						and is immortal, while the other supplies the body and perishes--is still cleary
						maintained between them.
					In our view, the fine arts being the representations of the beautiful unconnected with
						the useful, we will linger a moment and see whether our definition is applicable to
						those grand expressions which the  world has so long
						designated as the fine arts. We do so because we deem this course necessary for the
						purpose of laying a more permanent foundation for the definition which is the particular
						subject of our consideration. With regard to sculpture, painting, music, and poetry,
						there is no difficulty whatever. It is very apparent that our definition not only fits
						these, but that they fill the definition; namely, that they are the representations of
						the beautiful, without reference to the useful; but as to the latter clause of our
						definition being applicable to architecture, it is not quite so apparent, though equally
						true. We are apt to associate usefulness with architecture, more especially in the
						erection of edifices, either for permanent habitation or occasional occupancy. Certainly
						nothing is more useful, and even necessary, to man, than buildings to protect him,
						wherein he may reside, transact his business, enjoy his amusements, or perform his
						worship. But in the first place, architecture is by no means confined to the erection of
						edifices; it includes pyramids, monuments, pillars, obelisks, columns, and other
						structures, which are representations of the beautiful unconnected with usefulness.
						Secondly, it must be remembered that architecture, when applied to the erection of
						edifices, is not mere house building. Architecture begins just where house building
						leaves off It is the form, design, grandeur, beauty, not the mere usefulness of the
						structure, that constitutes architecture as a fine art. A column for support merely,
						would be just as useful in many other shapes and proportions than those recognized in
						the regular orders. The cornice, the frieze, and architrave, and many other beautiful
						designs, could  be dispensed with entirely, if the object
						was only usefulness. The size, elevation, and proportion of the building could be
						changed at pleasure, not only without injury to its usefulness, but often in aid of it,
						if we did not consult the beautiful. From these, and many other suggestions that could
						be made, it is plain that architecture, though often found in connection with
						usefulness, is no part of it--not of its essence; nor is usefulness any part of
						architecture when considered as a fine art. Usefulness is the mere incident to
						architecture; they are not bound togeher in the relation of cause and effect, design and
						end; and, therefore, architecture, in the language of our definition, is the
						representation of the beautiful without reference to the useful.
					Next we must see whether our definition will include any thing not belonging to the
						subject; for we have several times mentioned, what in all just criticism should never be
						forgotten, that a definition should not only admit every thing that belongs to it, but
						it must reject every thing that does not. Eloquence has sometimes been ranked with the
						fine arts. It is unquestionably an art, and represents the beautiful; it, therefore, has
						two essential requisites to a fine art; but it includes that which never can be admitted
						into the region of fine art, namely, it always has a direct reference to
							the useful. We can not conceive of eloquence as an art uncoupled with some useful
						purpose or end. The philipics of Demosthenes would have been puerile indeed, if there
						had been no Philip to oppose, and no Athens to be defended; the orations of Cicero would
						have been nonsense, if there had been no Catiline to thwart, and no Rome to save: the
							 great speech of Webster, in defence of the constitution,
						would have been no better than a sophomore exercise, if there had been no constitution
						to defend; and how idle would appear the most eloquent effort in protection of life when
						there was no life to be protected. In short, we can view eloquence in no light in which
						it is not directly connected with usefulness; it can not, therefore, however beautiful
						it may be in itself, be admitted as one of the fine arts. Dramatic acting, in its higher
						expressions, might appear, on first view, to lay some claim to being a fine art. It is
						an art, it represents the beautiful, it has no connection with the useful--indeed, the
						legitimate drama maintained at its true elevation, where we see the thoughts of the poet
						carried into effect by the actor, affords one of the grandest representations of the
						beautiful-- but the poet is the artist, not the actor; the poetry is the art, not its
						representation. It is the conception of the author, carried through the medium of
						another, which brings us the pleasure. The actor stands in a relation to the poet
						similar to that of the musical performer to the composer, or the stone-cutter to the
						sculptor, or the mason to the architect. Now, the art consists in the poetry, in the
						music, in the sculpture, and in the architecture; not in the actor, the performer, the
						stone-cutter, nor the mason. No one would think then, I am sure, of robbing the poet of
						his laurels to place them on the actor's brow. Aristotle placed dancing in the same
						class, if not on the same level, with poetry, and other imitative arts, which he
						illustrated in his Poetic. Dancing, indeed, has some of the requisites of a fine art. In
						common with poetry it has rhythm--indeed, it has been happily  called "the poetry of motion," and in common with music it has both rhythm
						and time. It is clearly an art, and, quite as clearly, unconnected with any thing
						useful. Why then is it not a fine art? We answer, because it does not represent the
						beautiful in an artistic sense. Beauty, as we have endeavored to show, belongs to the
						soul; it is felt by an emotion, the body is moved by passion. It is necessary to
						carefully distinguish between an emotion and a passion. An emotion has no
							desire beyond itself; a passion always drives to some purpose or
							end. Under an emotion we desire to remain as we are; under the influence of
						passion we desire to commit some act. The former is attended with pleasure; the latter
						with pain, or at least with uneasiness. Passion belongs to the body; emotion to the
						soul. No true work of art ever excited passion. Dancing, then,
						belonging to the desires of the body--being, indeed, but the joy of the heels-- finds no
						place among the fine arts. It is hardly necessary to formally shut out perfumery to keep
						it from creeping into the company of the fine arts; yet, perfumery, or the preparation
						of perfumes, is certainly an art; it represents the beatiful--of fragrance, and is
						unconnected with any usefulness; but it smells too strong of the body to ever give
						pleasure to that finer essence which we call soul. The eyes have three of the fine
						arts--sculpture, painting, and architecture; the ears have one--music; and the other,
						poetry--is more directly addressed to the mind; all arrive at the mind, however, only
						they reach it by different means. If we were to indulge the nose with a fine art, we
						much fear the tongue would clamorous for a like distinction; yet the tongue, whatever we
						may say  I about it, has furnished the word--taste, by
						which, used in a figurative sense, we test the fine arts, and prove their excellence;
						and the sense of feeling has also furnished a word that plays an important part in
						criticism.
					Before we proceed directly to the definition which is the subject of our essay, we will
						examine some of the definitions heretofore given of poetry. The ancient Hebrews,
						although they produced the grandest poetry in all the past, never, as far as I am
						informed, attempted a critical definition of their own productions. Indeed criticism as
						an art was not practiced by the Jews--at least not in the sense in which the word is now
						understood. Among the Greeks the art of criticism arose to a very high degree of
						excellence, yet, if one might say so, many of their writings are loosely expressed and
						very incomplete. Surely much in the doctrines of Socrates, and in the writings of Plato,
						is still left to conjecture. Aristotle defined poetry to be imitation,
						yet he did not apply this definition any more particularly to poetry than he did to some
						other imitative arts, which he treated of in his Poetic, and which he said differed from
						each other only in the means, the objects, and the
							manner of their imitation. Unfortunately this definition does not
						apply to poetry as accurately as it does to some other of the fine arts. For instance,
						sculpture and painting imitate real forms and appearances in nature; architecture
						imitates ideal forms in matter; and music imitates natural sounds; but what does poetry
						imitate? It may be said to imitate every thing by description, or word-painting, but
						this is a far-fetched and improper use of the word imitation as we now  understand it. When we describe a thing it can not be said
						that we imitate it, at least not in the plain meaning of the word. It requires but
						little examination to discover the defects of Aristotle's definition when applied to
						poetry. In the first place, it does not give all the the requisites of
						poetry, without which any definition must be defective For instance, poetry not only
						imitates whatever it may find worthy of imitation, but its main characteistic is that it
						changes the arrangement of things as they naturally are, and reconstructs them anew into
						beautiful images. Indeed, the true meaning of the word poet is that he
						is a maker. In this sense poetry means something quite the reverse of
						imitation. We thus see that to confine poetry to imitation would be to exclude the
						noblest efforts of the art. But the grossest defect in the definition of Aristotle is
						that it includes so much that has not even a resemblance to poetry; for it would clearly
						admit dancing, masquerade, burlesque, mimicry and buffoonery of every kind--things, we
						scarcely need to remark, which have no claims to such a distinction. Thus, even if all
						poetry was imitation, it is very clear that all imitation is not poety. A definition of
						poetry, therefore, which not only embraces all the other fine arts, but also includes so
						much that does not belong to art at all, can not be regarded as correct. Horace improved
						upon Aristotle in teaching the art of poetry, but never, to my knowledge, attempted a
						definition of poetry itself; neither has Virgil, the greatest of the Roman poets, ever
						ventured a definition of what he so ably practiced. Bacon, in his writings, rather
						describes the effect of poetry than gives it a definition; for he says that it  "doth raise and erect the mind, by submitting the show of
						things to the desire of the mind." This remark is profound and accurate, but it is
						scarcely a correct definition of poetry. Philosophy, as we have remarked, teaches us the
						real condition of things-- the good, the bad, the false, the true, the useful, and the
						beautiful alike; while poetry seeks only the beautiful, and obtains it "by submitting
						the shows of things to the desire of the mind;" that is, philosophy submits the actual things in their real order to the mind; poetry,
						by selection, addition, subtraction, combination, and reconstruction, submits the shows of things to the desire of the mind. We believe
						that poetry is always the representation of things arranged according to the desire of
						the mind, yet every thing arranged according to the desire of the mind is not poetry;
						for this would include not only all the other fine arts, but also every thing that is
						good; in this, therefore, the definition is imperfect. The mind desires nothing more
						ardently than the Good, which is the basis of morals, as the Beautiful is of art, or as
						the True is the basis of philosophy. The definition would embrace justice, mercy,
						benevolence, philanthrophy, friendship, love, and all the moral virtues, most excellent,
						indeed! but they are not poetry, and do not necessarily belong to art. The definition of
						Aristotle falls below poetry, while that of Bacon rises above it; both, however, are
						thus rendered incomplete, Lord Jeffrey, in speaking of the definition of poetry,
						remarks, that "the end of poetry is to please, and the name, we think, is strictly
						applicable to every metrical composition from which we derive pleasure without any
						laborious exercise of the understanding."  That "the end of
						poetry is to please," every one admits, but must a composition be metrical before it can
						be admitted as poetry? This may be true of classical composition, but is it true of
						English poetry? We think not. In the English language syllables can not be divided into
						regular quantities, as longs and shorts --two shorts making one long; they have every
						degree of length and quantity from the longest to the shortest. There is, perhaps, no
						short syllable in the English language which is not capable of becoming a long one by
						means of the accent; it might be more difficult always to compress along into a short,
						though it can generally be done, but two syllables can often be put into the place that
						even one short may fill. The Psalms are always regarded as poetry, yet, in the English
						version they can not be scanned. The poems of Ossian, whoever wrote them, are certainly
						poetry; they can not possibly be scanned; and we think we could cite much of Shakspeare,
						and much of Milton, that is not "metrical composition," which the world has long since
						embalmed as true poetry. On the other hand, can all "metrical composition from which we
						derive pleasure without any laborious exercise of the understanding" be classed as
						poetry? Surely not; for this might include wit, burlesque, humor, and many other
						"metrical compositions" which it would not be safe to pronounce poetry. A composition
						could be metrical, yet differ in no other respect from prose. Would the ridiculous
						adventures of the Don and Sancho, merely by arranging the language into metre, become
						poetry? It will scarcely be so contended; yet, the work would then be a "metrical
						composition," and certainly it would please "without  any
						laborious exercise of the understanding." Metre is; undoubtedly, a great aid to poetry,
						as many other things not necessarily belonging to it are, bit it is the incident, and
						not of the essence of poetry itself. While we must place Lord Jeffrey in the first rank
						of critics, we are still not compelled to accept his definition of poetry as complete.
						Other definitions of poetry have been given, but I know of none more accurate or
						complete than those which we have thus examined.


					Having established, as we think, the requisites of definition; what may, and what may
						not be defined, and that poetry is included in the former; the distinction between the
						arts, namely, that the useful arts have for their object usefulness, without reference
						to the beautiful, while the object of the fine arts is the beautiful, without reference
						to usefulness; what it is we name the beautiful; what arts are properly called the fine
						arts, and what not, and the reasons; and having examined several definitions of poetry,
						heretofore given, and pointed out their defects; we are now prepared to offer our own
						definition, which we express in the following words: Poetry is beautiful
							thought, expressed in appropriate language--having no reference to the
						useful.
					Poetry is beautiful. Beauty, as we have seen, is that quality of
						objects which pleases, without reference to any thing useful. What Beauty is in the
						abstract, apart from the objects which manifest it to us, can not be defined, yet the
						objects themselves are susceptible of a clear definition. Reason goes abroad into the
						universe and examines all things as they are --this is philosophy; imagination
						accompanies her,  selects the beautiful, and arranges them
						as the soul wishes them to be--this is art. In poetry the imagination goes into the
						world of ideas, gathers the beautiful and arranges them into poems, as the artist
						selects his colors and applies them to produce his picture. The ideas must be beautiful,
						though the objects may be common; for common ideas about the most beautiful objects can
						not be poetical, while beautiful ideas about the most common objects are true
							poetry.* Thus all see the
						beauties of creation alike, yet but few can express more than the common thoughts
						concerning them; and all see the common things of life in the same light, while only the
						poet can clothe them in new and beautiful ideas.
					Thought. All poetry is thought, or ideas. It is true we often speak
						of the spirit, sentiment, passion, or other qualities in poetry, but we only mean that
						the thoughts expressed in the poetry awaken these qualities within us. We can express
						spirit, sentiment, or passion, ourselves, in many ways besides expressing the thoughts
						which signify them--as by looks or actions; but in poetry, strictly speaking, the words
						which convey the thought are expressed, and the thought touches or moves the spirit,
						sentiment, or passion. Indeed, it is by thought only that the mind can be made to
						recognize any thing. Speaking critically, *Will not this view of the subject explain the controversy so
							long kept up by the Edinburgh Review against what was called the
							Lake School of Poets? The Review insisting that nothing but elevated
							or beautiful subjects could be made poetical, while Wordsworth and Cleridge were
							drawing the most delightful poetry from the commonest objects in nature, and the most
							ordinary affairs of life.
						 then, we say with propriety that all poetry is
						thought.

					Expressed. While the thought remains in the poet's mind it can not be
						called poetry; it must be expressed before we can recognize it as art. We can well
						imagine how the brain of a Homer, a Shakspeare, or a Göthe teems with beautiful
						thoughts; what images they see, what beauties they feel, and what poems they compose in
						the mind, that never find expression. The universe is at their disposal, and tired of
						that, the imagination creates anew. So the sculptor sees beautiful statues, figures, and
						groups, still sleeping in the quarry, unawakened by the blast, unrescued by the chisel;
						and the painter sees a thousand pictures abroad in the landscape, or in the busy mart,
						and imagines more, which his pencil can never reach. The architect in his thoughts
						builds columns to the skies, adorning them with imaginary figures and beautiful forms,
						far above the actual; and the musician is listening to the endless variety of melodies
						bursting from nature, and the myriad combinations of harmony that fill the world, and
						lift him to the music of the spheres. Yet none of these infinite beauties belong to art
						until they are embodied and fixed in their respective forms.
					In appropriate language. This branch of our definition raises the
						question whether time, number, feet, metre, rhythm, alliteration, rhyme, measure,
						cæsura, verse, strophe, antistrophe, stanzas, canto, or whatsoever the numerous
						externals of poetry may be called, are any part or element of poetry itself; and we
						dispose of them all by the single remark, that not one of them belong to the essentials
						of poetry. It would be difficult, perhaps, to find much poetry without some  of these incidents, but not at all difficult to find poetry
						from which many of them are absent; so that in turn, if you examine throughout poetry
						generally, you will find them all absent and all present in different given instances,
						which proves at once that none are essentials; for an essential to poetry is that
						without which it would not be poetry; and if all were essentials all would have to be
						present in all poetry, and if any one is an essential they could not all be absent from
						any poetry. I believe none of these mere fashions of poetical dress are now claimed as
						essential, except meter, and that only by Lord Jeffrey; and he was evidently driven to
						admit it for the purpose of excluding many admirable fictitious works, which otherwise
						would have been embraced within his definition.
					Feet in poetry are what bars are in music. The composer is not bound to any uniform
						number of notes in a bar, nor is the poet obliged to give any particular number of
						syllables to the foot; the musician, however, must have equal time in each bar, and the
						poet should have equal quantity in each foot; and the one should be played, and the
						other read, in a given measure of time; varying, of course, where the thought or
						sentiment urges a more rapid movement, or requires slower and more emphatic expression.
						Meter divides the line into feet, and the feet in classical composition are divided into
						no less than twenty-eight different kinds, which I will not even name, for in English
						poetry their names are mere jargon,and their effect nothing but confusion. Every one who
						will attentively analyze them, will find that they will arrange themselves under two
						heads; namely, the  iambic, and the anapæstic; the former
						having a long and short syllable or their equivalent in the foot, the latter having a
						long and two short syllables or their equivalent in the foot; the one accented on the
						even, the other on the odd syllable, corresponding to the common and triple, or even and
						odd time in music. All the other kinds of feet have no effect upon the poetry different
						from these two kinds, but depend wholly ,upon the points in the line at which the
						divisions are made; so that in these the poor poet, whatever his genius may be, lies at
						the mercy of the printer's devil. Rhythm is the correspondence between the time and
						accent, and in poetry very much resembles the time and accent in music; rhyme is the
						consonance in sound between two syllables, and is analogous to musical harmony.* These being the most important
						incidents to the dress of poetry, it will not be necessary to examine the remainder. But
						while we are expelling these mere attachments from the essential qualities of poetry, we
						are by no means condemning them; for each of them may be more or less proper, according
						to the character of the composition, as aids and ornaments to poetry; many of them,
						indeed, are frequently becoming in other forms of composition; and all, like other aids
						and ornaments, when *But
							the rhyming syllables must begin with different consonants, or with a consonant and a
							vowel, otherwise they are unisons; and as unisons in sound--being science the same
							thing --are not harmonies, so in poetry unisons are not authorized rhymes--that is, no
							syllable is a rhyme with itself. And though the rhyme is usually placed at the end of
							the line, yet it may be used at rhythmical distances in any part of the verse, with
							pleasing effect.
						 displayed with taste, add much to beauty; and although the
						Muse is a Beauty that delights in dress, yet we should do her great injustice, and be
						much disappointed in our joys, if we were to mistake her dress for her own sweet self.
						There can be no positive rule laid down by which to select poetical language, yet there
						is evidently a greater fitness in some words for poetry than in others. They should be
						carefully chosen for their elevated meaning, and musical sound, and harmoniously
						arranged in the sentence; so that no word could have been removed without loss, none
						added without redundancy, and none changed without injury. The question of style,
						however, must at last be left to the taste of the poet and the judgment of the reader to
						decide.

					Having no reference to the useful. It can not be said, as we have
						shown, that there is no usefulness in beauty, nor that there is no beauty in usefulness.
						The world, during a long period of time, has hoped for an ultimate usefulness resulting
						from the beauty of art, in refining the heart and elevating the understanding of man;
						nor are we claiming that all the beauty in the world belongs to the fine arts. There is
						evidently a beauty in the fitness of things for useful purposes, and often in the
						productions of the useful arts; there is a beauty in science, in philosophy, in morals,
						and in religion; but these are all connected with the useful. Beauty in the fine arts is
						that that beauty, and that beauty alone, which is unconnected with usefulness. When an
						artist is about to produce a work of art, he never takes into consideration its
						usefulness; that is an incident which may or may not happen; it, therefore, in the
						language of the definition, has no reference '  to the
						useful. We think this clause of our definition indispensably necessary to reject from
						poetry what would otherwise fall within its terms; and in our humble judgment it is the
						want of this negation that has caused so much confusion and uncertainty in the
						definitions which we have examined; for the definition of Aristotle, if it did not
						include the useful, and some things below art, would come much nearer being correct than
						it is; the definition of Bacon, if it negatived the useful, would be quite correct; and
						that of Jeffrey, if it did not include meter and rejected usefulness, would be
						complete.
					It is plain that our definition is sufficiently comprehensive to include every thing
						that is poetry; let us now ascertain whether it will admit any thing that is not poetry.
						It is clear that it excludes all writings on philosophy, science, history, biography,
						morals, and theology, merely as such; because, in this view, however excellent they may
						be, they are always connected with what is useful; yet, as to imaginative works, such as
						fictions, novels, stories, allegories, fables, and the like--as we have refused to
						recognize the ordinary external forms of poetry as constituting any part of their
						essence--their exclusion is not quite so apparent. It will be noticed, however, that the
						latter class of works always has some practical end, or useful moral in view. A novel,
						indeed, is but history or biography in fiction, differing in nothing from real history
						or biography, except in not being true as to the particular facts stated; yet they must
						be such as might be true, for a novel that violates truth as a principle, or even
						probability, is at once condemned. The novel, therefore, can have no higher  claims to be called poetry' than history or biography, of
						which it is supposed to be but a ficticious copy. The same remarks will likely apply to
						other writings of this class; they are'not unconnected with the useful. Narrative poetry
						seldom ranks high in art; we have supposed the reason to be that it so strongly
						resembles the novel--having little else by which to distinguish between them except the
						dress of poetry. Scott's Lays may be cited as examples; and there are portions of
						Homer's Iliad, in the narrative part, that nothing but a blind reverence can possibly
						hold up to a level with poetry. Neither has didactic poetry ever risen to the first
						rank. Is it not because it is so nearly allied to the useful? How often does a little
						morality save a poem from condemnation as a work of art, when, in point of fact,
						morality is no part of art, as Göthe has abundantly shown. It is very difficult to
						regard Gay's fables as poetry; and Pope's Essay on Man, as splendid as the diction is,
						loses in poetry what it gains in philosophy. Let the palpable object of a work be to
						teach, and however beautiful it may be, it will be impossible to bring it up in art to a
						high standard of poetry. Subjective poetry, from its entire disconnection with the
						practical and material, will always afford the highest specimens of excellence.
					Eloquence is beautiful thought expressed in proper language, but, as we have seen, it
						always aims at a useful end; and for this reason can not enter into our definition.

					Will our definition include wit? Let us see. What is wit? This question is as difficult
						to answer as it is to define poetry. As the word is now understood-- for it has
						undergone several changes--it may be defined,  a pleasant
						surprise arising from a sudden perception of some unexpected relation in the order of
						our ideas. But whatever wit may be, it is generally agreed that it must be unexpected,
						must be sudden, and must bring surprise; either of which qualities will exclude it from
						art; for the beauties of art are never suddenly perceived, and do not unexpectedly
						appear, nor do they give surprise; they are rather perceived by contemplation; they
						steal gradually upon us, and fill the soul with admiration. The effect of wit is
						sometimes so sudden that it almost amounts to a concussion, and most generally excites a
						disposition to laughter. What would we think of a work of art whose only quality was to
						make us laugh? It might please, but the pleasure would be very different from that
						derived from art. Nor can wit ever enter into the highest order of poetry. The Hudibras
						is a poem of "infinite wit," yet who would compare it with the Iliad or the Paradise
						Lost? For similar reasons satire can never rise to the first rank of art. It is
						difficult to tell what wit is, it is not hard to show that it is not poetry. Wit is but
						a flash, poetry is a beaming light; the one flits in a moment, the other is immortal.
						Humor, for the same reasons that reject wit, can not be admitted as poetry. There is no
						mere anecdote sufficiently elevated to give it that rank. It is true that anecdote is
						often expressed in ' poetical forms, but it is not th quality of the anecdote that can
						make it poetry. Humor takes its name and draws its nature from the flow of animal
						spirits, and like other streams, it can not rise above its source.
					It seems, then, that our definition is sufficiently 
						comprehensive to include all that is poetry--and at the same time so exact as to exclude
						every thing that is not poetry. We have thus, following both modes of investigation,
						constructed and analyzed our definition, and we think that, under the severest scrutiny,
						it will be found that all poetry is beautiful thought, expressed in appropriate
						language--having no reference to the useful; and that all beautiful thought, expressed
						in appropriate language--having no reference to the useful; is poetry.*
					*
						It would appear also that a similar definition might be applied to each of the other
							fine arts: for instance, sculpture is the representation of the beautiful in the forms
							of organic beings, embodied in some suitable substance; architecture is the
							representation of the beautiful in the forms of inorganic matter, built of proper
							material; painting is the representation of the beautiful in the objects of nature, by
							means of color, light, and shade; and music is the expression of the beautiful in
							sound. In each instance, however, the art must be unconnected with the useful. It is
							clear, then, that the definition of each of the fine arts throws light upon that of
							the others, showing that beauty is the peculiar characteristic of all; and that they
							differ only in the objects they represent, in the menas which they are represented,
							and in the mode of representation.
						Poetry is restricted in its means to language, but embraces all objects, all modes,
							all times, all places, all subjects, which proves that of all the fine arts poetry is
							the most excellent.
				
				

				
					
						ANALYSIS OF RHYME.
					
					

					Are there no rules for rhyme, except the ever-varying tastes of readers, the vagaries
						of critics, or the caprices of poets? In other words, Is there no standard for rhyme,
						except the ear, be it long or short? It would appear not, if we follow any of these
						guides. And if we consult the rhyming dictionaries, we are no better off; for we shall
						find them so full of exceptions and contradictions that all rule is destroyed. They are
						nothing more than collections of examples from the older poets, and, of course, vary
						according to the peculiar genius, taste, or fancy of each one. We look through them in
						vain for principle, law, or rule to guide us. If we are to rely on the practice of poets
						to establish the canons of rhyme, we shall never have a rule; for some of the best poets
						have been the worst rhymers, and some of the worst poets the best rhymers. Indeed, a
						great poet seldom thinks of his rhymes, while a little poet is too apt to think of
						nothing else. Shakespeare rhymed voice with juice,
							refresh with redress, dame with
							remain, fickle with brittle, doting with nothing, opened with betokened, remembered with tendered,
							replenish with blemish, chastity
						with scarcity, posterity with obscurity. Byron rhymed fresh with hush, man with sun, banns with once, must with blessed, of with enough, subject
						 with project, doting
						with both in, chronicle with miracle, damning us with magnanimous. Burns
						rhymed lass with breast, flows
						with closed, ripe with slight, glee with joy, hame with time, drops with steps, sins with once, kin with him, spin with sun, morning with storming, Peggy with leddie, pladdie with rainy, Wallace with billies, blisses with
							wishes, strictly with quickly,
							early with Mary, ocean with bosom, quarter with halter, union with opinion; he was the most careless rhymer
						that ever wrote. But, of course, when writing in a dialect, more latitude would be
						allowed than when writing in classical English. Byron was very negligent in his rhymes,
						and Shakespeare wrote more false rhymes than either; yet who would attack these great
						masters for their delinquencies in rhyme? As well might some fanatical moralist accuse
						Shakespeare of having stolen Sir Thomas Lucy's deer, blame Burns for having been drunk
						with Glencairn, or denounce Byron for having loved the Countess Guiccioli, with a view
						of destroying their fame as poets.
					It is useless to go to the cities for a rule as to rhyme, for they do not agree.
						Indeed, as rhyme is not an essential element of poetry, a great critic seldom pays any
						attention to it, while a small one goes a-mousing at once for an imperfect rhyme; and
						should he find one, he tortures it much as a kitten would a mouse. Lions never prey upon
						small game. Such writers, not understanding their subjects, treat rhyme as the all-in-
						all of poetry, when it is not even an essential part. It is, at most, but an ornament.
						As to the opinions of readers concerning rhyme, they are as various as the number of
						individuals,  and as multitudinous as the race, and, of
						course, afford no established guide for either poet or critic.
					The Art of Poetry has been exhaustively taught by Horace and Pope (we need not mention
						others), yet the poet has learned nothing from them; for the rules are drawn from the
						poets to teach the critics, not from the critics to teach the poets. The poet is a law
						to himself. The question is not one of philosophy and science; it is one of imagination
						and taste. Without these, no one can be a poet; and with them, he will be a poet, in a
						greater or less degree, without teaching, and in spite of critics. All men with fair
						average ability can learn and teach philosophy and science, but no man can either learn
						or teach poetry. And none but a poet, or those having poetic faculties, can understand a
						poet. The faculty may exist in all degrees, but it is exclusive to those who have
						imagination and taste. Between these and those who have not the faculty in any degree,
						there is no road to connect them--nothing to bridge the chasm, and no power to leap it.
						The poet can come to them, but they can not go to him. Besides the world which holds us
						all, the poet lives in a world of his own--a new creation. This is as true, and as well
						established by evidence, as any great mind-fact, or soul-fact, in human nature.
					In 1702, Edward Bysshe published "The Art of English Poetry," with a dictionary of
						rhymes. In 1775, John Walker published "A Rhyming, Spelling, and Pronouncing
						Dictionary," somewhat extending the rhyming portion of Bysshe's work, by admitting what
						are called allowable rhymes. Others have published rhyming
						dictionaries--among them, "rules of rhyme," by Tom Hood--but they were all based  mainly on Bysshe's and Walker's. Walker's work has been the
						standard--if such a thing as a standard can be established in rhymes--during a century.
						Let us examine it, and see how far it is a guide to the poet or critic.
					Under A C K, hack, we find the allowable rhyme, neck; but under E C K, neck, we do
						not find the reciprocal allowable rhyme, hack. Under A F
							E, safe, we have the allowable rhyme, chief;
						but under I E F there is no safe. Under A G, hag, we find no allowable rhymes; but under E A G U E, league, we find hag. Under A L K, talk, we find sock; but under
							O C K there is no allowance for talk. Under A N, man, we find gone, upon; but under O N and O N E we have no man. Under A N C H, branch, we find
							launch; but under A U N C H no reciprocal branch. Under A N D, hand, we find
							fond; but under O N D no hand.
						Under A N G, hang, we discover the allowable long; but under O N G no hang. Under
							A N G E, range, allowable revenge; but under E N G E there is no range, and no allowable rhyme at all. Under A P, cap, we find the allowable tape; but under A P
							E no cap. Under A R C H, march, we have no allowable rhyme; but under E A R C H we have
							march as an allowable. Under A R D, ward, we have Lord; but under O R D no ward can be found. Under A R G E, large, we have the allowable gorge; but we find, under O R G E, no allowance for large. Under A
							R K, bark, we have the allowable cork; but
						under O R K no bark. Under A R N,
							barn, corn is allowable; but under O
							R N no barn. Under A R T, dart, hurt is an allowable; but under U R T
						there is no allowable dart. Under A S, was, we find the allowable 
						cause; but under A U S E there is no was: Under A S S, we have brass, with its
						allowable loss; but under O S S no brass. Under A T C H, catch, there is no
						allowable; but under E T C H, we find catch and teach as allowable rhymes. Under A Y, bray,
						we have the allowable see; but under S E E no bray is allowed.
					Thus, under one letter, we have shown the incongruities which run throughout the
						alphabet. They are plain contradictions, and serve to mislead rather than guide. If, for
						instance, the poet desired to rhyme man with gone,
						he would probably look under A N for his authority, where he would
						find it; but if he wished to rhyme gone with man,
						and were to look under 0 N E, he would not find it. It would thus
						depend upon which rhyming word was first chosen, whether the desired allowable rhyme
						could be found or not.
					Why pie and see should be allowed to rhyme, and not
							pine and seen; or pent and saint, and not pence and saints; or
							man and pain, and not manse and
							paints; or ledge and badge, and
						not hence and chance, and many similar words, it is
						difficult to see. And why day and see should be
						allowed to rhyme, and not day and sky, which are
						nearer together in sound, does not appear. It is said, however, that when Pope rhymed
							day and tea together, tea was
						pronounced tay--hence the license is perpetuated. And in man and gone the vowel sounds are as far apart as they can be
						placed, except it would be in man and tune.
					Let us now more particularly examine the elements rhyme. We have five vowels, arranged
						as follows: a, e, i, o, u. I do not mention y,
						because when it is a  vowel it has the same sound that i would have in the same place. The vowels are uttered without
						articulation. The first is naturally a, because it is uttered simply
						by passing vibrating air through the organs of speech in their natural position. It is
						the first syllable uttered by babes, and with a labial articulation forms pa, and repeated, pa-pa; and when uttered with a labial
						articulation and nasal tone, forms ma, and when repeated, ma-ma. The second, e, is uttered the same as a, except with a contraction of the organs of speech. The third, i, is uttered the same as e, but with somewhat less
						contraction. The fourth, o, is uttered the same as a, except with a slight expansion of the organs of speech beyond their natural
						position. The fifth, u, is uttered the same as o,
						only with a still greater expansion of the organs. The vowels, as they usually stand,
						are not arranged in consecutive order, according to the acuteness or gravity of their
						sounds. It is proper, however, that a should stand first, as it is the
						first one naturally uttered. In their consecutive order, ascending from the gravest to
						the most acute, they would stand u, o, a, i, e; descending, e, i, a, o, u. Besides the vowels proper, there are other vowel
							sounds--a having three sounds, and each of the others two; e, long, as in scene, and short, as in men; i, short, as in tin, and long, as in
							pine; a, long, as in mane,
						short, as in can, and broad, as in wan; o, long, as in lone, and short, as in con;
							u, short, as in sun, and long, as in tune. We have thus eleven distinct vowel sounds. There are also delicate changes
						in the sounds of the vowels in unaccented syllables, which we need not notice
						particularly. It seems to me that there are but the eleven sounds fairly distinguishable
						in accented  syllables. Indeed, in unaccented syllables,;
						the vowel sounds seem to be almost the same. The word hunter, for
						example, in its unaccented syllable may be spelled hunter, huntir, huntar, huntor, huntur, without any sensible change in the pronunciation of the word; but if we
						change the vowels in the accented syllable, as hunter, henter, hinter, hanter, honter, the sound becomes changed entirely. And so of many other words. In
						diphthongs, it is sometimes difficult to detect which of the vowels, or which most, or
						whether both, are sounded; as in main, dean, sein, lean, coin ; or as
						in tea, die, joy, thou, true. The same in triphthongs, as in beau, lieu, bureau.
					The consonants--to talk without technicalities--are nothing more than the vowels with a
						peculiar beginning or termination to the sound. Indeed, it is impossible to utter a
						consonant without carrying within it the sound of a vowel; for the sound of some vowel
						forms the body of each consonant. This will appear very plain if you attempt to dwell
						upon a consonant; you will find the prolonged sound to be that of some vowel which
						either precedes or follows it. If it precedes it, you will hear nothing of the consonant
						till the close; if it follows it, the sound of the consonant will be lost in that of the
						vowel: for example, b is e, with a labial concussion
						at the beginning; c is e, commencing with a hiss;
							d is e, with a lingual-dental concussion at the
						beginning; f is short e, ending with a labial-dental
						concussion; g is e long, beginning with a peculiar
						sound, difficult to describe, but very easy to make; h is long a, with a peculiar ending, easily shown by example, but quite difficult
						to explain; j is long a, with a peculiar lingual
						beginning ; l is short e, with a peculiar  lingual termination; m is short e, with a peculiar labial-nasal conclusion; n is short
							e, with a peculiar labial-dental ending; p is long
							e, beginning with a peculiar labial concussion; q
						begins with a concussive e, sliding down to u; r is broad a, with a peculiar lingual termination ;
							s is short e, ending with a hiss, as c begins; t is long e, beginning with a
						lingual concussion; v is long e, beginning, with a
						peculiar labial-dental concussion ; w is simply double u, and is a vowel at the end of a syllable; x is short e, closing with a concussion. We have thus disposed of all the letters.
						Of course, these examples could be much better given by the voice than described by
						words; but any one can see what is meant, and with a little practice may be convinced of
						its truth.
					Rhymes may be defined generally as two or more accented syllables of the same vowel
						sound; as ba, da, na. When consonants occur in the syllable, those
						which precede the vowel must be different, and that which follows, the same; as man, ran, can. If the vowel and consonantal sounds were the same, of
						course the syllables would be the same, and would not form an authorized rhyme. The old
						English poets, however, often rhymed with the same syllables. In Gower's Confessio Amantis they are abundant, and are also found in Chaucer's
						Canterbury's Tales. Indeed, they may be discovered occasionally in our standard modern
						poetry, more especially when the rhyming word contains more than one syllable. Where the
						final consonant is followed by a vowel which does not form a syllable, the rule is not
						changed, nor is there any change when the rhyming vowel is doubled, except it may be in
						the vowel sound.


					

					Rhymes may be divided into perfect, allowable, and false. Perfect rhymes have the same
						vowel sound, and when a consonant follows the vowel the same consonantal sounds; as ha, da, na, man, ran, can. Allowable rhymes have nearly the same
						vowel sound, as man, rain, lean--of course following the same
						consonantal rule. False rhymes have a different structure in the relation of the
						consonants to the vowels, from the true rhyme; as worth, froth; truth,
							earth; or as man, dram; cane, maim; halt, what; after, faster.
						It is sometimes claimed that unless a rhyme is perfect, it is not a rhyme at all; but
						this is too strict a rule. It were as well to say that a musical concord is not a
						concord unless it is perfect. Such a rule would destroy the art of music altogether,
						except in simple melodies. There are other divisions of rhymes, into doublets, as written, smitten; and triplets, as creator, relator;
						and quadruplets, as Latinity, affinity; and even quintuplets, as manipulation, reciprocation; but they are governed by the same rules
						which govern rhymes generally. There is also a sort of rhyme, sometimes used in
						burlesque poetry, which might be denominated grotesque, as Byron's intellectual with hen pecked you all. But these various kinds,
						for the most part, require no particular discussion. There is also a division of rhymes
						into to male and female, which has no foundation in
						the nature of the subject, and need not be noticed.
					As poetry is the only art that is not based on a science, the quality of rhymes must
						forever remain merely a question of taste, about which, as we were told nearly two
						thousand years ago, there is no disputing; or, rather, as we should have been told,
						there is no end of disputing, Architecture is based on 
						quantities and relations; sculpture, on quantities and proportions; painting, on
						perspective, light, and shade; while music, the most ethereal of all, is the most firmly
						fixed in science--being based on pure mathematics. The relations of parts in
						architecture are often varied to give the proper appearance to the whole; the
						proportions in sculpture are changed, sometimes, several meters, to give the desired
						effect to the figure; and the perspective in painting is seldom accurate upon
						measurement, even in the works of the great masters. But in music, the slightest
						variations from the exactions of science, of the intervals in melody, or the relations
						of the tones in harmony, destroys the artistic effect at once, and entirely. Science is
						the guide of art, except in poetry, which rests soley on the imagination. It is just as
						independent of science as mind is of matter, or the soul of the body. It is here, there,
						everywhere, now then, always, forever. Rhyme is no essential part of poetry, but is a
						mere question of taste, and therefore never will be settled. Only such questions as are
						referable to the understanding can be put at rest. No one before Bysshe, and from Bysshe
						to Hood, and from Hood since, ever contended that all rhymes should be perfect. All the
						English-speaking poets, from Gower to Tennyson, and from George Sandys to Joaquin
						Miller, have used allowable rhymes, and sometimes, indeed, blundered into false ones.
						Shakespeare, Burns, and Byron were the greatest transgressors in this respect--one the
						very greatest, and the other two amongst the very greatet poets. Bysshe and Hood stand
						alone in insisting upon perfect rhymes. Bysshe was no poet, and Hood not a great one.
						Poets, critics,  and, readers have accepted allowable
						rhymes, and probably will continue to do so while poetry is written. Indeed, sometimes
						an allowable rhyme, to many ears, is more pleasing, in certain positions, than a perfect
						one; especially when it precedes the closing line of a verse. It is like a thrill in
						music, on the second or seventh interval, resolving itself into the key-note.

					My own theory is, that all the vowel sounds when in their proper relations to the
						consonants which precede and follow them, may be interchangeably used as rhymes with
						agreeable effect; as scene, men, kin, pine, fane, ban, wan, lone, don, gun,
							tune. Tune and scene are the extremes of the
						vowel sounds, and are surely not unpleasing--certainly more agreeable than noo rhyme.
						Accented syllables ending with the same consonant, immediately following the vowel,
						whatever letters may precede them, are not inharmonious. It is not wholly the vowel
						sounds that make the rhyme, or give the pleasing effect. The vowels may be the same in
						sound, and yet the words extremely harsh, as, for example, scratch and
							smash. Here the sound of a is the same in both
						words, yet who could relish such endings to poetical lines? No one, surely, unless his
						ears were graters.
					In music, the concords range from unisons, which are the most perfect, to the minor
						thirds, which are the least perfect; and while science exacts the precise relation
						between the tones of each concord, art by no means requires the sole use of the most
						perfect. Indeed, quite the reverse; for the consecutive use of the unisons would be but
						the movement of the two melodies; the consecutive use of the octaves would be but the
						movement of the two melodies an octave apart;  the
						consecutive use of the fifths and fourths, which are but reflexes of one another, would
						thrust the relations of the harmonies out of the key--indeed, this is never done--thus
						leaving the thirds and sixths, which may be used consecutively throughout the musical
						compass, and which, like the fifths and fourths, are but the reflexes of one another, to
						complete the harmony. Even the discords of the flat seventh and sharp fourth are
						frequently used, in the full harmonies of a composition, because for each of these
						discords two concords are obtained. In passages of consecutive thirds and sixths, the
						continual alternation between their majors and minors is extremely pleasing in music,
						and strikingly analogous to the perfect and allowable rhymes in poetry; and, as rhymes,
							scene and tune stand nearer to scene and lean, or tune and prune, in poetry, than the thirds and sixths, as concords in music, stand to the
						octave and unison. Thus we see the beautiful analogy between poetry and music--and
						indeed between all the arts--yet the one most strictly bound by science is allowed the
						greatest latitude in art, while the one bound by no science is allowed the least. Yet it
						would seem, since the relations of melody and harmony in music are bound by the
						strictest exactions of science, and harmony and rhyme in poetry are mere questions of
						taste, that the latter art should have at least as liberal a latitude granted to it as
						is given to the former.
					Yet whatever latitude may be allowed to rhyme in poetry generally, in a song every
						rhyme should be perfect. A perfect song is the rarest production in literature. There
						are fewer perfect songs than epic poems--just as there are fewer diamonds than bowlders
							 --and fewer perfect song-writers than masters of the
						epic. I venture the remark that there is not one good song to be found in all the range
						of literature written earlier than the seventeenth century. It was impossible to write a
						good song before the musical scale was settled, and the art of writing music understood
						and practiced; and there was no written music worthy of the name, anywhere, before the
						time of Handel. One hundred years ago such a being as Beethoven, Chopin, Ole Bull,
						Parepa Rosa, or Rubenstein, would have been as impossible on earth as an angel. There
						were then no superior musical instruments except those of the viol family, the flute and
						the clarionet. The organ was very imperfect, and the piano in a transition state, but
						little better than the old harpsichord. Fifty years ago there was not one instrument of
						the trumpet kind in existence, except the French horn, keyed bugle, and trombone. All
						the superior instruments of this class have been invented since. 
					Before the last century the art of music was in a very imperfect state, and no true
						song could be written until the music was ready to receive it; and no poet can be a true
						song-writer unless he is also a musician. I do not mean to say that he must be a
						scientific musician, or a practical artist, but he must have the soul of music in his
						nature. Byron, with all his genius, could not write a genuine song. He was not a
						musician. It is impossible to set his Hebrew melodies to music. They are fine poems, but
						not songs. Neither the composer, the performer, nor the singer, can manage them with any
						success; nor the hearer enjoy them as songs. Moore was undoubtedly the  best song-writer thot ever wrote. He was a musician, and
						often sacrificed something of the poem to improve the song. His Melodies are perfect
						gems; not so much in the depth of their pathos and the fullness of their sentiment--for
						some of them are quite shallow and empty--but from their perfect finish and adaptability
						to the voice. They melt into the music that wooes them. And Burns, it seems to me, must
						stand next to Moore as a song-writer. His songs are deeper, fuller, richer than Moore's,
						but not so polished, nor so ready to wed with sound. Burns, too, was a musician --not a
						theoretical or practical one, but a real and ideal one. I am well aware that Murdock his
						teacher, said that "Robert's ear was dull for music;" but the truth is the nmuic was
						dull for Robert's ear. It was the harshest, narrowest, and severest of Scottish church
						music, taught on a system of notation that had no fourth or seventh--and consequently no
						semi-tone--in its diatonic scale. No wonder, with such an ear as Burns had--turned to
						the harmonies of nature--that such music was repulsive to his soul. His genius was
						itself a musical instrument, played upon by the universal and eternal spirit.
						Shakespeare wrote no songs except the few fragments that are scattered throughout his
						dramas.
					And not only should every rhyme in a song be perfect, but every syllable should be
						soft, round, full, and end with a vowel whenever practicable. The vowel sounds are the
						fullest, richest, and easiest to speak in tones; and in the order of their sweetness
						they stand as follows: u, o, a, i, e. It is impracticable to give a
						rich, full, sustained tone to e, and quite irm- possible if the
						syllable should end with b, d, p, s, t, x,  z,
							ch, sh, or th. Indeed, rhymes ending with these consonants, whatever vowel may
						precede them, are quite intractable in song. Next to the vowel sounds, rhymes ending in
							l, m, n, r, and ng are the most agreeable. And
						when c, ch, s, sh, and th precedes the rhyming vowel
						the sound is not pleasing. The richest and fullest vowel in its adaptation to tone is
							u; and o, the next, is also very soft and sweet.
						And the vowel sounds are the only ones on which the voice can dwell. The fa-sol-law-ing
						syllables follow these rules. There is also a peculiarity in the arrangement of
						syllables in a song. Much, in the ease and facility with which they may be uttered,
						depends upon what syllable immediately precedes or follows them. Sometimes, at the close
						of a syllable, the organs of speech are left in the exact position to begin the next,
						and sometimes the reverse. For example, sol la is much easier to sing
						than la sol, because, when we utter sol the organs
						of speech are left in the proper position for uttering la; while, if
						we utter la first, the organs must be changed before we can utter sol. This changing gives a kind of hitch in the song. A more palpable
						illustration may be taken from walking. When we have made a step with the right foot, we
						can not make the next step with the right foot; it would be a hop instead of a step.

					Certain words are easily adapted to music, while it is found impracticable to mould
						others to sound. The syllables in hal-le-lu-jah and in ju-bi-la-te are perhaps the fullest and richest known in music. In tranc-a-dil-lo, and Uncle Toby's lil-le-bu-le-ro, and many of
						the meaningless (in words) choruses and chants found in catches and rondeaus, the
						syllables  are very sweet when joined to musical sounds.
						Pope's nonsense verses afford another happy example. Other words may be excellent in
						themselves, yet not at all adaptable to music. Take, as examples, eloquent,
							re-doubled, untrodden, inhabitants, witheringly,. mockery, scorched, disquieted,
							unembittered, quenched, distinct, succeeding--all from Byron's Hebrew Melodies.
						The composer would find them very unmanageable in music, and the singer would have great
						difficulty in giving them utterance in tones.
					It is not likely that song-writers, composers, or singers think of these rules when
						they are writing, composing or singing; yet they nevertheless obey them whenever they
						produce a good song. The rules, indeed, do not form the song; the song forms the rules.
						No poet ever wrote a good song who was guided by any other rules, while writing it, than
						the spirit that was in him. Song-writing can neither be learned nor taught, save by the
						individual genius of the poet to himself. Genius does not draw its rules from art, but
						art from genius.
					As some of the greatest poets have not been the best song-writers, so they have not
						been--inless they were also musicians--the best judges of rhymes; for rhyme has a strong
						affinity for song, and the vowel sounds a close analogy to melody. Besides, there is a
						harmony between thought and music, which, being merely pschycological, escapes the
						analysis of the understanding, and can be known only to those whose souls can receive
						and feel it.

					But let us be thankful to our Bards who have enriched our poetry with rhyme, and thus
						united sense  and sound; to our composers who have
						inseparably married sentiment and song; and to our singers who have joined voice and
						verse as one.
				

				

				
					
						A REVIEW OF PROF. TYNDALL'S
						WORK ON SOUND.
					
					


					If the science of geology be true, there must have been a long period of time on the
						earth when there was no sound. While the surface of our globe was yet an igneous rock,
						without atmosphere, sound was impossible. And for a long time subsequent to this period,
						while the lower orders of vegetable life were forming, there was probably no uttered
						sound. These early productions grew, flourished, and decayed, in a noiseless world; and
						until animal life was so far developed as to have organs of utterance, sound was
						impossible, except from inanimate causes. No doubt the thunder, the storm, the volcano,
						the ocean, and the avalanche gave out their jarring clang to the earth--echoed from the
						mountains and whispered in the caves--long before there were ears to hear; but sound
						once established, silence became impossible. The air can not be silent. Nature has her
						murmurs even in her stillest moods.
					Sound is the only medium by which animated nature can express itself. The utterances of
						the lower order of animals are not articulated; their language is merely intoned. The
						beasts of the field and the birds of the air have their various modes of expression. The
						elephant blows his nasal trumpet, and the mouse squeaks out its pain. The lion roars,
							 and the lamb bleats. The horse neighs, and even the hare
						has its little voice. The eagle screams his defiance, and the dove coos her affection.
						The owl hoots, the nightingale warbles, and the swan has her song of death. The woods
						and the plains are full of minstrelsy. Even the insect tribes give out their sounds by
						myriads of wings, and have their own peculiar songs. Reptiles hiss. Fishes make no noise
						by utterance, but they are not insensible to sound. Some of the lowest orders of animal
						life have no organs of utterance or hearing, and therefore make no noise, and hear none.
						To them the world is silent.
					The speech of man is but articulated sound. Out of sound he has invented nearly four
						thousand different languages, having in all many millions of words, and each word a
						distinctly different sound. By these he can express the perceptions of his mind, the
						emotions of his heart, and the aspirations of his soul. He has thus been talking during
						six thousand years--and if recent discoveries be reliable, for a much longer period--yet
						how endless are the combination of his words. The literature of the world is but freed
						sound, to be silently understood and enjoyed, or fixed into words, at the pleasure of
						the reader. And music, almost celestial, with its enchanting melody and entrancing
						harmony, which, speaking without words, fills the mind with pure thoughts, the heart
						with sweet sentiments, and the soul with pleasing hopes--is nothing but moulded sound.
						Man has been singing ever since his creation--when the morning stars began their
						hymns--and yet how inexhaustible is the variety of his songs. It is not surprising,  then, that sound is an interesting subject of science. It
						attracted the attention of man early in his career, and has engaged minds of the first
						character ever since that time. It would be an interesting subject to trace the gradual
						development of knowledge on this subject till it took rank as a science, and the various
						ingenious discoveries made in it since that time, but as such a course is not necessary
						to our present purpose--or at least not within the range of our design--we must deny
						ourselves the pleasing task. But we propose to give some explanations of the subject we
						have chosen in a method which we hope will not be uninteresting to the general
						reader.
					The latest work on sound, so far as we are aware, is, that of Professor Tyndall. It is
						the American edition, but we understand it to be a reprint of the English edition from
						duplicate plates furnished to the publisher by the author himself; the two editions,
						therefore, are not in any respect different from one another. The volume contains the
						substance of eight lectures delivered by the author at the Royal Institution of Great
						Britain. The style is popular--being a happy medium between that algebraic brevity not
						easily understood by general readers, and the stately verbosity so apt to mislead
						undisciplined minds; yet it somewhat lacks that severe correctness which ought to
						characterize every scientific work. The character of its style, however, will not be
						objectionable to general readers, especially in America, where science is rapidly
						becoming popularized. The book is well illustrated, has a summary at the end of each
						lecture, and a general index. 

					
					Professor Tyndall opens his lectures with some physiological remarks on the brain and
						nervous system, explaining the mode by which the senses convey a knowledge of external
						objects to the understanding; and there are also references to the same subjects in
						other parts of the book; but we do not propose to discuss questions of physiology, as
						the understanding of that science--though as to sense of hearing it might be cognate--is
						not necessary to the discussion of the science of sound. Doubtless all the separate
						sciences are but so many parts of one grand science--the great system of Truth; yet it
						would be very embarrassing to discuss them all at once, or even several of them
						together. But this part of the book will probably not be deemed a redundancy. There is,
						however, as it seems to us, a conspicuous omission in the work, in its not treating of
						the structure of buildings and rooms for public speaking, according to the laws of
						acoustics. Surely the best mode of erecting our public edifices-- churches, colleges,
						state-houses, theaters, lecture-rooms, and the many places of instruction and amusement,
						so as to obtain the best effects of voice --is a subject worthy of attention, and we
						think ought to have been investigated in a work of this kind. We are not sure, however,
						that there are any rules as to shape, proportion, size, and height of rooms, by which
						all parts within their walls can be made equally advantageous to both speaker and
						hearer. Perhaps not. To expect this might be as unreasonable as the notion of the man
						who refused to purchase a lithographic view of the city in which he lived, because it
						did not show all the front doors.  No doubt every room,
						whatever may be its shape, size, proportion, or height, has certain mouth-points most
						agreeable to the speaker, and certain ear-points most advantageous to the hearer; yet if
						these difficulties can not be entirely overcome by the plan of the rooms, they can
						certainly be favorably modified. And the best means of deadening walls so as to prevent
						the reflection of sound as much as possible, and of damping the echoes reflected from
						them--thus destroying, in part at least, those cross-cutting reverberations which are so
						annoying--are surely worthy of scientific attention. Professor Tyndall, with his means
						of experiment and illustration at hand, would doubtless have thrown much light on these
						interesting practical questions, if he had given the subject a more thorough
						investigation. Science instructs us how to make pleasing sounds more resonant and rich,
						and surely might teach us something about destroying or deadening sounds which are
						discordant or disagreeable.
					The experiments given by Professor Tyndall on the velocity of sound passing through
						various media--air, water, the gases, several of the metals, and different kinds of
						wood--are full and satisfactory; establishing beyond doubt that the two conditions on
						which its velocity mainly depends are the elasticity and density of the mediums through
						which it passes. It is a well known fact that water from its point of greatest density
						expands by the increase of heat, and also expands from the same point by the decrease of
						heat. Doubtless, when it expands from a decrease of heat, its particles become more
						dense and less elastic, and when from the increase of heat, less dense and more elastic.
						We have thought that interesting experiments  might be
						founded on these facts, by passing sound through water at its point of greatest density,
						and at the various degrees down to freezing, and from the same point through the various
						degrees above. But we could not find sufficient data in Professor Tyndall's experiments
						to form correct conclusions on these questions.
					Professor Robinson's experiment for the purpose of ascertaining the rapidity of musical
						vibrations, made with a stop-cock so constructed as to open an organ pipe at regular
						isochronous intervals, places the G in alt. at 720 vibrations per second. This would fix
						the lowest C at 30 vibrations per second. We have hitherto regarded this as correct; but
						the illustrations given by Professor Tyndall on the Syren put the lowest C at 33
						vibrations per second, which would place G in alt. at 792. The Professor follows his own
						illustrations as to the lowest C, yet preserves G in alt. at 720, and does not seem to
						have noticed the discrepancy. It is difficult to see how the difference between him and
						Professor Robinson came, unless the experiments were carelessly made; for both means, as
						well as that of a toothed wheel, seem to be well adapted to settle the same fact.
						Measurement of the rapidity of musical vibrations being the only means by which a
						standard pitch can be positively preserved, there ought be no confusion in the
						experiments. There is already some variation between the German, French, English, and
						American standards. It is to be regretted, too, that French philosophers count a full
						returned vibration two vibrations instead of one. By this means they would in France
						(following Professor Robinson's standard), in words, place the lowest C at  60 vibrations per second, while we (following the same
						standard) would place it at 30, when in fact both statements mean the same thing. Such
						confusion is calculated to embarrass the inquirer, and should be avoided if
						possible.
					In mentioning the analogy between light and sound, Professor Tyndall remarks:
					"The quickest vibrations which strike the eye as light have only about twice the
						rapidity of the slowest; whereas, the quickest vibrations which strike the ear as a
						musical sound have more than two thousand times the rapidity of the slowest."

					This is true, but he might have added that the slowest vibration of light is many
						millions of times more rapid than the quickest vibration of sound. We suppose he used
						Dr. Young's tables of light, adopted by Sir John Herschell; if so, it should be
						remembered that they measure only one octave of colored light--
						running from red to violet inclusive. What is the vibration of the lowest degree of
						light which the eye can use? and what is it of the brightest light which the eye can
						bear? These are questions to be settled before we shall know the vibrations of the whole
						compass of light. The darkest light having the slowest vibration, and the brightest
						light the quickest, and there being colors many shades darker, and many shades brighter,
						than those shown on the spectrum, it may be that light repeats itself in octaves by
						colors from the darkest to the brightest, in the same manner that sound does in the
						musical scale from the lowest to the highest. There are many analogies between sound and
						light yet uninvestigated, and some which seem to point in this direction. The reflex
						rainbow,  which always accompanies the original, in having
						the colors reversed, is remarkably analogous to the reflex concords in an octave. The
						intervals of a fifth and fourth, a fourth and fifth, a third and sixth, and a sixth and
						third, always complete the octave, and are reflexes of one another; that is, each pair
						of these concords are but one concord and itself reversed. The same thing takes place in
						the tints of the two rainbows.
					In speaking of what determines the quality of musical tones,
						Professor Tyndall says:
					"Higher tones mingle with the fundamental one, and it is their intermixture which
						determines what, for want of a better term, we call quality of sound.
						The French call it timbre, and the Germans call it klangfarbe. It is the union of high and low tones that enables us to distinguish
						[the tones of] one musical instrument from [those of] another. A clarionet and a violin,
						for example, though tuned to the same fundamental note, are not confounded; the
						auxiliary tones of the one are different from those of the other, and these latter tones
						uniting themselves to the fundamental tones of the two instruments, destroy the identity
						of the sounds."
					The above extract contains, both truth and error; unfortunately for the truth, however,
						it is so entangled with the error as to render the proposition incorrect. But, before we
						proceed to point out the error, let us settle our terminology. We are not willing to
						give up the plain English word quality for the German word klangfarbe, translated into clang-tint, and used by
						Professor Tyndall; and if we were, we think tone-tint a better
						translation, as applicable to music, than clang tint. Clang in English does not fairly mean  tone, most
						commonly the reverse indeed. It never means a concord of tones. Airy sudden, short,
						sharp, harsh noise is a clang; a tone is always supported by regular isochronous
						vibrations. This indeed is the distinguishing difference between a mere noise and a
						tone. And quality has the advantage of being a single, direct and
						positive word, while klang-tint is merely figurative, besides being a
						cumbrous compound. And quality also has the advantage to readers of
						the English language of being well understood. Nor are we willing to abandon the word
							harmonic, which has a well settled meaning both in the science and
						art of music, for the German word obertone, Overtœne
						may mean any tone above another, while harmonic means a peculiar tone
						in a certain relation to its fundamental. True, overtœne in German may
						have the same meaning as harmonic in English, yet that fact, in our
						judgment, affords no good reason why we should exchange words. And we protest against
						the inaccurate use of the word mingle, so frequently made by Professor
						Tyndall. He uses it as the convertible equivalent of co-exist. Now
						these two words never mean the same thing. Musical tones never mingle. Whatever their
						combinations may be, each one persists in its individuality. If tones mingled--thereby
						losing their identity, and each becoming a component part of a common exponent of them
						all--harmony in music would be impossible. And Professor Tyndall uses the word intermixture in the same loose and utnwarrantable sense. This practice
						is objectionable. Confusion in terminology is is often confusion in science. Keeping
						ourselves, then, to words well understood, and to their true meaning,  we proceed. In the first place, Professor Tyndall confuses
						the effects of wind and stringed instruments together, as if the quality of their tones
						depended on similiar conditions, when in fact the conditions are widely different; and
						the combination of their harmonics follow different laws. But we notice harmonics here
						only as they are connected with the quality of tones; in another place we propose to
						show the laws which govern them, both on stringed and in wind instruments. The
						combination of a harmonic in a wind instrument with its fundamental tone is impossible;
						nor can its harmonics co-exist except as unisons. Any harmonic on a
						string may co-exist with its fundamental tone, and its harmonics may co-exist in certain
						limited relations. What gives such purity and sweetness to the harmonics of a wind
						instrument is the fact that each harmonic is made up of a number of unisons; that is,
						counting the fundamental tone one, the second harmonic is made of two unisons, the third
						of three, the fourth of four, the fifth of five, and so on throughout the series. And
						the concord of their unisons is complete from necessity--so complete, indeed, that the
						ear confounds them as one--for the excess of one would be instantaneously imparted to
						the deficiency of another, until the harmony was perfect. Their nodes must exactly
						balance one another or they can not exist; therefore the slightest imaginary discord
						between harmonics produced together in the same degree becomes impossible. The same law,
						namely, the co-existence of unisons, gives that peculiar superiority to the harmonics of
						a string; but when they co-exist with other harmonics, or with their fundamental tone,
						they become, not a tone, but  several tones, either in
						concordant or discordant relations; consequently it is erroneous to say that this
						combination gives quality to a tone, but it may of of course affect the aggregate
						quality of an assemblage of tones. Nor is it by harmonics that we distinguish between
						the tones of stringed and wind instruments; it is because their tones are produced by
						widely different--indeed, perfectly opposite-- causes. A pipe registers the current of
						wind furnished to it by the bellows or the breath, into isochronous vibrations, and they
						impart the quality of the tone; a string furnishes the vibrations already formed to its
						sonorous body, and it imparts the quality of the tone. Besides this
						difference, strings are made of various materials--steel, catgut, silk--which must
						necessarily affect their tones. The truth is, the quality of tones depends on so many
						and such complicated conditions that science has not yet detected them all. A change of
						strings on a stringed instrument changes the quality of its tones, a change of
						conditions in a wind instrument changes the quality of its tones, while
							their harmonic capacities remain the same. We cannot, therefore, attribute these
						changes to harmonic differences. A pipe simply furnishes in its walls a solid basis from
						which the vibrations react; a string furnishes the vibration to a sonorous body, upon
						the character of which, and the kind of string, the quality of the tone mainly depends.
						Experiments prove that the area, dryness, hardness, elasticity, weight, thickness,
						density, and many other conditions of the sonorous body, decide the quality of tone on
						stringed instruments. It is therefore very easy for a musician to detect a difference
						between the same  tones on two stringed instruments of the
						same kind, while between the same tones on two wind instruments of the same kind,
						equally in good order, it is very difficult, if not indeed impossible. In the one case
						the quality depends on a few simple, plain conditions; in the other, on many and complex
						conditions, some of which are still hidden. While, therefore, it is difficult to show
						all the causes on which the quality of tones depends, it is easy to demonstrate that it
						does not depend on the co-existence of harmonics with their
						fundamental tone. 
					In the fourth lecture the experiments of Chladni, Wheatstone, Young, Faraday,
						Lichtenbeg, Strehlke, Melde--some of which are improved by Professor Tyndall himself--on
						rods, square and circular plates, blocks of wood, bent wires, disks, glass--whereby we
						are made not only to hear sound but also to see it-- are admirably set
						forth. The illustrations of the bell, so far as showing that its harmonies are always in
						even numbers, are very clear. This arises, doubtless, from the fact that in a bell,
						having no ultimate fixed nodes like a spring, each vibrating segment must find its
						support in a balancing segment, which of course could not take place in odd numbers. A
						steel or other metallic ring, when suspended and caused to vibrate, will divide in the
						same manner. Professor Tyndall gives the scale of a bell as follows: "Assuming its
						fourth division, which is always its fundamental tone, at 40 vibrations, its sixth will
						give 90; its eighth, 160; its tenth, 250; its twelfth, 360." In this we think Professor
						Tyndall is mistaken. We are aware of the anomalous law governing the scale of rods
						fastened at one end and free at the other, but the bell does not  appear to be subject to any such aberrations. The reason of the law which
						governs the vibrations of a fixed rod or tongue, is because its ultimate division has
						but one point of rest--the free end being at the middle point between the two nodes. The
						vibrations of plates and flat disks are also anomalous, and doubtless for the same
						reason--namely, that their ultimate divisions have but one node. The vibrating segments
						of a bell run around its circumference and pass into one another, having a node at each
						end of every segment, and are not, therefore, subject to this apparently exceptional
						law. Professor Tyndall's scale of the bell, expressed in notation, taking B flat as its
						fundamental tone, would be as follows: 
					 
					Any musician can see at a glance, and everybody can hear when struck, that the above
						tones do not correspond with those of a bell. Any combination on a bell of tones
						according to the above scale, except alternate octaves, is impossible. Their
						simultaneous production, if forced on a bell, would simply break its walls, for its
						material would be demanded in different relations at the same instant of time. No one
						need hesitate to affirm a demonstrable proposition against Professor Tyndall, or any
						other authority.  Professor Huxley says that the highest
						merit in a man of science is to doubt and demand proof; that is, to accept nothing in
						science which science can not prove. Much less, then, should we accept, on mere
						authority, a proposition which science can disprove by demonstration.
					The true scale of a bell is as follows: Counting its fourth division, and fundamental
						tone, at 40 vibrations, its sixth would be 60, its eighth 80, its tenth 100, its twelfth
						120. This scale expressed in notation, still assuming B flat as the fundamental tone,
						would be written as follows:
					 
					Of course, the same relations to any other fundamental tone will produce the same
						concord. If a musician, while a large bell is ringing, will ascertain the unison of its
						fundamental note on the piano, and then strike the concord from it in the relation in
						which it is above written, he will find the instrument in full harmony with the bell.
						All the tones of a bell may be reduced to the relations of the common chord in the major
						diatonic scale, and are produced by the vibrations of its aliquoit parts, and, when in
						combination, by the aliquoit parts of the whole bell, with the aliquoit parts of its
						aliquoit parts, all vibrating  at the same time. Any other
						law of co-existent vibrations would be, as before remarked, impossible without actually
						breaking the walls of the bell. And all the resultant tones of a bell--that is, those
						produced by the combination of other tones--fall within the harmony of the original
						tones, merely producing some one or more of them lower in the scale, and, therefore,
						though they add richness to the concords, do not vary the combinations. Any experienced
						ear, by listening attentively to the ringing of a large bell for a considerable length
						of time, may hear a faint murmuring tone far below the actual tone of the bell. This is
						the resultant tone produced by the fundamental tone combined with its fifth above, and
						may be represented in numbers as follows: Given B flat, 214, as the fundamental tone,
						its fifth above would be 321. Now, the difference between 214 and 321 is 107, which
						represents the resultant tone. The same thing may be demonstrated by quantities, seen by
						the eye on the rim of the bell in its lower divisions, and made palpable to the sense of
						the ear by playing the lower two tones in the last example, while holding down the key
						of the B flat an octave below, but without striking it, and then letting the sound die
						away on the lower string, still held undamped. Although this tone on the piano is a
						sympathetic tone, yet it is the same as the resultant tone on the bell. The tone of 214
						is produced by the bell vibrating in four segments, each of which is divided into three
						smaller vibrating segments, thus making twelve segments, which vibrate simultaneously
						with the four. The number of the resultant tone, 107, will divide the fundamental tone,
						214,  twice, and its fifth, 321, three times, all without
						remainder. If the whole rim of the bell could be thrown into one series of vibrations,
						they would be represented by 26.75, which number will divide any of the above numbers
						without remainder. Thus we demonstrate the scale of the bell, not only by abstract
						science, both in numbers and quantities, but also make it palpable to the senses of
						seeing and hearing. It seems to us that further evidence to prove our proposition is
						unnecessary.
					In connection with bells, Prof. Tyndall might have mentioned the Chinese gong, if he
						had thought that annoying instrument worthy of attention. The disk of a gong, the rim
						around it, the unequal thickness and weight of its parts, make its vibrations irregular,
						both in rapidity and amplitude. None of its vibrations are isochronous; this is the
						cause of its disagreeable sound, which gives us a fine illustration of the scientific
						definition of a noise. The same difficulty of irregular vibrations attends the sound of
						a drum, or a cymbal, while they are struck rapidly; but when their vibrations are
						allowed to balance and settle, as they will partially while dying away, these
						instruments yield an isochronous tone which is not altogether unpleasant.
					In the fifth lecture Prof Tyndall gives us a full and accurate demonstration of
						longitudinal vibrations in rods and wires, and also of the relative velocity of sound
						through solids. We have also some explanations of the tones of pipes--both with and
						without reeds--which, in the main, are well considered. The anatomy of the organs of the
						human voice is given, and the manner in which they operate in producing  sounds. It seems that Hemholtz attributes the falsetto
						voice to anatomical changes. We had always thought that it was merely the harmonic
						octave, made precisely as it is made on the flute, or any other pipe. If the falsetto is
						not a harmonic octave we think the human voice incapable of producing one.
					We do not agree with Prof. Tyndall when he says that: "Through the agency of the mouth
						we can mix together the fundamental tone and the overtones (harmonics) of the voice in
						different proportions, and the different vowel sounds are due to the different
						admixtures of this kind."
					And for reasons which we have already stated, namely: That no such combination can be
						made to co-exist by the voice. The only co-existent tones possible in the human voice,
						or any other pipe--for the human organ of voice is but a reed pipe--are unisons. In our
						opinion, no single human voice ever yet uttered a combination of different tones at the
						same time. If two different tones depend on two different series of isochronous
						vibrations, the feat is impossible. In support of this theory, Prof Tyndall adds: "We
						may blend in various ways the elementary tints of the solar spectrum, producing
						innumerable composite colors by their admixture. Out of violet and red, we produce
						purple; and out of yellow and blue we produce white. Thus also may elementary sounds be
						blended so as to produce all possible varieties of clang-tint."
					Unfortunately for this theory, sounds will not "mix;" nor will they "blend." There is
						no such thing as composite sound; that is, a sound made of two other sounds, and
						differing from either and both. Sounds remain as separately marked as colors in mosaic.
						All  kinds of noises, sounds, and tones may co-exist if
						produced by independent causes; but each one maintains its identity whatever may be
						their combinations. There can, therefore, be no exponent of them all, or a compositive
						sound. The vowel sounds are simple utterances-- the simplest in nature--the first
						uttered by babes--made by the natural positions of the organs of voice--maintained by a
						single series of vibrations, as any one may hear if he will dwell on one long enough to
						give it the character of a tone. The artificial utterances of the vowel sounds by
						inanimate instruments is no contradiction of this view, but rather a confirmation of the
						fact. The experiments of sounds on flames show conclusively that tones will not "mix"
						nor "blend." Whenever two tones are blown upon a flame, it will show a marked difference
						between them. All the experiments on flame in lecture sixth, it seems to us, establish
						this conclusion. They are very interesting. 
					The principle by which sound silences sound is fully illustrated and proved. It is done
						simply by accomodating the swell of one vibration to the depression of another
						isochronous with it, and of the same amplitude. One can easily imagine two series of
						waves in water, wherein the swell of one would just fill the depression of the other,
						and thus leave the surface smooth. Precisely the same thing takes place in the air
						between two sounds when one silences the other. The demonstration is an admirable one,
						and finds a beautiful analogy, as well as support and confirmation, in Grimaldi's
						experiment, showing that light may extinguish light; thus giving additional evidence
						that light, like sound, is caused by vibrations, and that 
						colors, like tones, are simply differences is their velocities. 
					Prof. Tyndall states the theory of resultant tones correctly--that is, where two tones
						produce a third-- and shows that the cause cannot arise from beats (beatings), but he
						fails, as do Young and Helmholtz, to give the true cause. We have supposed the cause to
						be the continual crossing of the two series of vibrations or tone-waves, whereby at each
						crossing a vacuum is produced and filled, which being thus produced and filled
						alternately, would create a third series of vibrations or tone-waves; such third series
						would of necessity correspond with the difference between the two producing tones, and
						this difference is always found to be the vibration of the resultant tone.

					As to Prof. Tyndall's doctrine of "summation" tones--that is, where the sum of the
						vibrations of two tones creates a third--we are not convinced. There is no fact in
						science more fully demonstrated, and uniformly accepted, than that sound is caused by
						the vibration of the atmosphere. This vibration must be communicated to the atmosphere
						by a vibrating body --as a string, tongue, or voice; or caused by the reaction of the
						atmosphere from the surface of some substance or body--as a cavity, tube, or pipe. The
						resultant tone called by Prof. Tyndall a "difference" tone, is demonstrated to have a
						cause different from either of the producing tones. Now, if such a tone as that which is
						called by Prof. Tyndall a "summation" tone can exist, it must be produced by the very
						same cause which produces the "difference" tone, and the two tones would co-exist; that
						is, one vibrating cause must produce two rates of vibration at the same time  --a combination contradictory to abstract science, and
						impossible in fact. It is the same as saying that two can be four and four two, or that
						this and that can be here and there simultaneously. For example: The resultant tone of
						240 and 400, (C and A), is 160, (F). The "summation" tone of those two would be 640.
						Now, to produce this "summation" and "difference" tone, the same cause would have to
						vibrate at the rate of 160, and 640, times per second, simultaneously--a result which, I
						respectfully repeat, is impossible. We must not be deceived or confused, by the
						co-existent harmonics often produced on a monochord. These are caused by the vibration
						of its aliquoit parts at the same time, each of which acts as an independent string;
						these, therefore, are the same as so many different strings, and hence are, in fact, so
						many different and separate causes of tone. It is impossible, of course, for the same
						material in the string to vibrate, simultaneously, at two different rates of velocity.
						The same impossibility exists between "difference" and "summation" tones, otherwise
						harmony and discord would arise from the same cause. We are thus, as it seems to us,
						forced to the conclusion that Prof. Tyndall's "summation" tones, have no existence in
						fact.
					Prof. Tyndall's experiments showing the cause of sympathetic tones, which may be
						noticed in this connection, are convincing as far as they go, but they might have been
						carried much farther than unisons; for not only will unisons communicate their
						vibrations through the air, or along a sonorous body, to unisons, but also to their
						concords; and concords thus awakened will communicate .their concords in the various  combinations of the major diatonic scale; that is, unisons
						will move unisons, and their concords will move other concords of the same key note, and
						also sometimes their resultant tones.
					Prof. Tyndall has well refuted Euler's theory as to why musical
						consonance is pleasing--namely, that the mind takes delight in order, and in the
						simplicity and complexity of relations--but he has given no better theory than the one
						he refutes; and simply, no doubt, because the problem can not be solved by science. The
						enquiry as to the cause which makes harmony pleasing, and the cause
						which produces harmony, presents, very different and distinct
						questions. To ask why harmony is pleasing, is the same as to ask why
						pleasure is pleasing. The soul is pleased with many things unexplained by science. The
						question is purely a psychological one, and, as we declined in the beginning to discuss
						questions of physiology, we have now no intention of entering upon those which belong to
						psychology. But what is the cause of harmony, and what are the conditions upon which it depends, are questions that may well be asked,
						and science can give the answers. We do not accept, however, the elaborate theory of
						vanishing beats (beatings) advocated by Helmholtz, and adopted by Prof. Tyndall, because
						we do not think it the true one. Beatings arise between tones nearly in unison, when the
						vibrations are not quite isocrhonous, and also between concords when the harmony is not
						quite perfect. What Prof. Tyndall calls beats (beatings), that is, want of concurrence
						in the vibrations, can never be eliminated from harmony, because in all concords, except
						in unison, certain ratios of the vibrations are never concurrent. Even in the  octave but 1 in 2 vibrations are concurrent, in the fifth
						but 1 in 3, in the fourth but 1 in 4, in the major third but 1 in 5, in the minor third
						but 1 in 6, in the major sixth but 1 in 5, and in the minor sixth but 1 in 8. It is this
						regular alternate concurrence and disconcurrence (if the word be permissible), which
						give the peculiar characteristic to each concord, and make it pleasing to the ear.
					The following is our resolution of harmony. Prof. Tyndall gives the correct ratios of
						the conbords. In the unison the ratio is 1 to 1, in the octave 1 to 2, in the fifth 2 to
						3, in the fourth 3 to 4, in the major third 4 to 5, in the minor third 5 to 6, in the
						major sixth 3 to 5, and in the minor sixth 5 to 8. The more frequent the concurrence of
						the vibrations the more perfect will be the harmony. But it is found that the same
						ratios in different parts of the musical compass do not produce the same degree of
						perfection in the harmony. There must be, then, some other condition than the frequency
						of the concurrences in the ratios on which harmony depends. That other condition is the
						frequency of the concurrences of the vibrations in the duration of
							time. To illustrate: Take the major third composed of C and E about the middle of
						the organ key-board, where their vibrations are 480 to 600, and we find it a pleasing
						concord, but slightly imperfect. Let us ascend three octaves and try the same concord
						where its vibrations are 3,840 to 4,800; here the union of the two tones to the ear is
						complete, and the harmony perfect. Then take the same concord three octaves Ftaves below
						the middle one, where the vibrations are 60 to 75, and it will be found very rough and
						jarring to the ear. Now keep it in mind that the vibrations  of each of these major thirds occur in the same duration of
						time--that is, that it takes as long to accomplish the 60 and 75 vibrations, as it
						does the 3,840 and 4,800 --and we shall find that in the first instance we have 120
						concurrences in a second, in the second instance 880, while in the third we have but 15.
						It needs no argument to prove that 880 concurrences per second will fall more smoothly
						on the ear than 15. We may, therefore, safely rest on the following propositions: 
							 Musical harmony between two or more tones depends on the frequency of
								their concurrent vibrations in ratios, and also on their frequency
								in the duration of time.
							 The greater the frequency in ratios--the time being equal--the more perfect the harmony.
							 The greater the frequency in time--the ratios being equal--the more perfect the harmony.
							 The greater the frequency, both in ratios and in time, the more perfect the harmony.
						
					
					There is a peculiarity, however, in the harmony of octaves, which should be explained.
						In the interval of two octaves, for example, the concurrent vibrations are one in every
						four of the higher tone; and in the interval of a fourth the ratio of concurrences is
						the same; yet the ear, notwithstanding the duration of time may also be the same, never
						mistakes the one for the other, and always receives the interval of the two octaves as
						the more perfect harmony. The reasons are, first, that in the harmony of octaves the
						concurremces always fall on even numbers in both tones. while in all other concords they
						fail on even numbers in one tone and on odd numbers in the other; and, second, in the
						harmony of octaves, whether between  one, two, three, or
						any number, there is always a concurrence on every half vibration of
						the lower tone, which is not the case in any other concord. Thus, in point of fact, the
						concurrences in the interval of two octaves are two in every four of
						the higher tone, instead of one in every four. This fully explains the difference the
						ear detects in the harmony of two intervals; although, while we count the departure and
						return of the string, or of the tone-wave, as but one vibration, their ratios must
						remain the same. But whatever method we may adopt in counting the vibrations, it will
						not affect the truth of the above propositions. 
					As we are at variance with Prof. Tyndall on the following propositions, we prefer to
						state them at length in his own words:
					"Now it is not possible to sound the string as a whole without at the same time
						causing, to a greater or less extent, its subdivisions; that is to say, superposed upon
						the vibrations of the whole string we have always, in a greater or less degree, the
						vibrations of its aliquot parts.
					"And so it is with other sounding bodies; we have in all cases a co-existence of
						vibrations. All bodies and instruments, then, employed for producing musical sounds,
						emit, besides their fundamental tones, tones due to a higher order of vibrations.
					"In the music of an orchestra, not only have we all the fundamental tones of every
						pipe, and of every string, but we have the overtones (harmonics) of each, sometimes
						audible to the sixteenth series. We have also resultant tones, both difference tones and
						summation tones, all trembling through the same air, all 
						knocking at the self-same tympanic membrane. We have fundamental tone interfering with
						fundamental tone; we have overtone interfering with overtone; and have resultant tone
						interfering with resultant tone. And besides this we have the members of each class
						interfering with the members of every other class. The imagination retires baffled from
						the attempt to realize the physical condition of the atmosphere through which these
						sounds are passing.
					"The strings of a violin, for example, are rich in overtones (harmonics) whose
						interferences must be taken into account when judging of the combinations of the sounds
						of two strings."
					Let us, before we begin our answer to the above propositions, clear away some verbal
						differences which might lead to confusion. In our illustrations by numbers we shall
						count the lowest C at 30 vibrations per second--according to Prof. Robison's experiments
						with the stop-cock, instead of those adopted by Prof. Tyndall on the syren, which placed
						the lowest C at 33 vibrations per second.* We should also remark that in numbering harmonics we count
						the fundamental tone inclusive. It seems to us this mode is preferable to any other, not
						only because the fundamental tone belongs to the same system of tones, but because it
						brings the division of the chord, the unisons in the tone, and the harmonic, to the same
						number. That is, if we number the fundamental tone 1, then the harmonic number 2 will
						divide the string into 2 parts, *By adding to any number representing vibrations in t review, the surn will
							correspond to the number as given by P Tyndall; or, by subtracting r from any number
							represent vibrations as given by Prof. Tyndall, the remainder will; spon4 to the
							number as given in this review.
						 and have 2 unisons; number 3 into 3 parts, and have 3
						unisons; and so on indefinitely. Prof. Tyndall excludes the fundamental tone in his
						system of numbering, which, besides being wrong in itself, as we think, represents all
						the even harmonics by odd numbers, and all the odd ones by even numbers. With these
						explanations kept in mind, we proceed.
					In the first place we take issue with Prof. Tyndall, on the facts stated in his
						propositions--that some of the aliquot parts of a string always
						vibrate with its whole length--that we have in all cases a
						co-existence of vibrations, and that the fundamental tones of all
						instruments employed for producing musical sounds are accompanied by their harmonics. It
						seems to us that Prof. Tyndall might have suspected the error of these statements in his
						own familiar experiments on the monochord, wherein, when he plucked the string in the
						middle, he had no harmonic, when he plucked it into two divisions he had two harmonics,
						and when he plucked it into three divisions the harmonics produced by two divisions
						disappeared, when into four, the harmonics of three divisions took leave; thus,
						continually finding the harmonics of the odd numbers chasing away those of the even
						numbers, and the even ones those of the odd numbers, throughout. And we think he might
						have been quite convinced by his experiments on the syren, whereby he shut out all
						possibility of vibrations except the single series he desired. We would also refer to
						the tone produced by a toothed wheel by striking a card held to its circumference, in
						which a complication of vibrations can not possibly exist. If these are not convincing,
						we think Prof. Robison's stop-cock, through which there is but a single vent, must be
						regarded as conclusive evidence. A tone is  produced and
						supported by a single series of isochronous vibrations. One series can never be two
						series, yet, until it can, one series can never produce two tones. The above experiments
						show conclusively that there can not possibly be but one series of vibrations in each
						instance, and therefore but one tone. The fact that a fundamental tone is always accompanied with some of its harmonics does not exist, but the truth is
						that under musical conditions they never so attend as a necessary accompaniment, and never come unbidden. They can neither be heard nor
						their existence demonstrated. If they were audible, music, as an art, would be
						impracticable. We venture to assert that in a whole orchestra there is not one harmonic
						which does not come and go by the volition of the performer. Bells produce harmonics at
						random, though always within the range of their concords; and on the monochord they are
						made very easily; sometimes, indeed, when the string is bowed, or struck in a peculiar
						manner, near its bridge, or a rest, they come as volunteers; but it must be remembered
						that a monochord is usually of an undue musical length, made so on purpose to beget
						harmonics, which are not, then, always readily produced, except by dampening the nodes.
						On a harp, which they would be more likely to trouble than any other musical instrument,
						on account of the great length of some of its strings, and the liberty to pluck them at
						any point, they never appear except at the pleasure of the performer. On the ordinary
						piano they can not be produced at all by the keys alone; indeed, the hammers and dampers
						are adjusted purposely so as to avoid them. Some pianos, however, have a harmonic
						attachment. The sweet, pure concords accompanying the performance of a supererior  pianist, and not made by his touch, are sympathetic tones
						from other strings undamped--they are not the harmonics of the strings struck. By
						undamping the fundamental base tone, its major third, or its fifth, or all of them at
						once, and then striking their concords, or some of them, above, you will have a pleasing
						combination of additional harmony, not made by the strings you strike, but by those you
						hold undamped; or undamp the upper concords and strike the base tones and you will have
						a similar effect. Any ordinary player may prove the truth of these experiments in a
						great variety of combinations. It is true that a portion of the scale in most
						instruments is, or may be made, in harmonics, but they are not untamed--they are
						subjugated rigidly to their places, and do not appear, except at the desire of the
						player. The scale of a common horn is all in harmonics except its lowest note. A great
						portion of the scale of keyed trumpets is in harmonics. Whenever more than one note on a
						wind instrument is made in the same position, all except the lowest ones are harmonics.
						Every instrument of the viol kind has a complete chromatic scale of harmonics,
						throughout its compass, from an octave above its lowest note. If these come unbidden,
						and so abundant, Ole Bull would have a sad time with his violin. Hogarth's enraged
						musician would be but a faint picture of his distress. The truth is, harmonics on
						stringed instruments, instead of coming voluntarily, are very difficult to obtain,
						except the few whose nodes are aliquot parts of the open strings; and the power to
						obtain them with facility, and use them skillfully, are among the highest graces of
						execution.
					Prof. Tyndall is quite in error, also, in the doctrine 
						of the co-existences of harmonics with their fundamental tones, and with one another.
						That they can and do co-exist to a limited extent, according to a certain law, is true;
						but he leads us to infer that all the even numbers may co-exist with one another, under
						all circumstances and in all relations; and all the odd numbers in the same way under
						like conditions--indeed, he says as much in several places in his book-- at least he
						does not distinguish the law by which their co-existences are governed, and does not
						notice the law whereby they are produced at all.
					We propose, now, to examine the subject of harmonies, and demonstrate the law of their
						production and of their co-existences; and we begin with the law of their production on
						the monochord.
					Every harmonic is an aliquot part of its fundamental tone, both in the number and in
						the distances of its nodes, and also in the vibrating quantity of the string which
						produces it. Every fundamental tone is an aliquot part of its harmonic in the number of
						its vibrations. The vibration of the second harmonic is the sum of its fundamental tone
						added to itself; the vibration of the third is the sum of its fundamental tone added to
						the sum of the second; that of the fourth, its fundamental tone added to the third, and
						so on progressively to any extent--that is, the vibration of any harmonic is the sum of
						its fundamental tone added to that of all the harmonics which precede it. The
						fundamental tone of any harmonic is the quotient of the harmonic divided by the number
						of the fundamental tone; that is, if the vibration of harmonic number twelve, for
						example, be 360, then divide 360 by 12, and the quotieut 30 is the fundamental tone; or
						multiply the vibration of the fundamental tone by the 
						number of the harmonic, and the product will be the vibration of the harmonic. The first
						octave of a monochord produces but one harmonic; the second, 2; the third, 4; the
						fourth, 8; and so on to infinity. Every succeeding octave has a number of harmonics
						equal to the number of all the octaves which precede it; for example, the first seven
						octaves have 228 harmonics, the eighth octave has an equal number, while out of the
						whole 256 but 5 belong to the musical scale. Harmonic intervals become less and less
						continually as they advance in the scale, according to the same principal in mathematics
						as that by which the space between two constantly approaching lines becomes less and
						less forever, yet the lines will never meet.
					The following table, No. 1, will show the number of each harmonic, the number of its
						vibrations per second, and, when a musical interval, the letter which represents it;
						when not a musical interval, it will be marked with a dash, thus----. We assume C, at 30
						vibrations, as the fundamental tone of the monochord, though of course, the principal is
						the same, whatever may be the length of the monochord, or the vibration of its
						fundamental tone:
					
						TABLE 1.

						
							Harmonics
							1,
							2,
							3,
							4,
							5,
							6,
							7,
							8.
						

						
							Vibrations
							80,
							60,
							90,
							120,
							150,
							180,
							210,
							240.
						
						
							Letters
							C,
							C,
							G,
							C,
							E,
							G,
							--,
							C.
						
						
							Harmonics
							9,
							10,
							11,
							12,
							13,
							14,
							15,
							16.
						

						
							Vibrations
							270,
							300,
							330,
							360,
							390,
							420,
							450,
							480.
						
						
							Letters
							D,
							E,
							--,
							G,
							--,
							--,
							B,
							C.
						
					

					The foregoing process may be extended indefinitely, but we can obtain no more musical
						intervals than those shown above. The same letters, however, may  be repeated again and again, but amidst an overwhelming and constantly
						increasing number of discords.
					We next proceed to demonstrate the law according to which harmonics may co-exist on the
						monochord.
					The fundamental tone may co-exist with any single number of its harmonics. Any single
						harmonic may co-exist with its fundamental tone, or with any other harmonic of which it
						is an aliquot part. All harmonics which are aliquot parts of their fundamental tone, and
						also aliquot parts of the aliquot part of their fundamental tone, may co-exist with one
						another, and with their fundamental tone.
					The succeeding table, No. 2, will show what harmonics may co-exist on the monochord,
						the number of their vibrations per second, and the letters which represent them when
						they are musical intervals. The dash represents the wild harmonics which have no
						representation in letters, and are not musical intervals:

					
						TABLE 2.
						
							Harmonics
							2,
							4,
							6,
							8,
							10,
							12,
							14,
							16.
						
						
							Vibrations
							60,
							120,
							180,
							240,
							300,
							360,
							420,
							480.
						
						
							Letters
							C,
							C,
							G,
							C,
							E,
							G,
							--,
							C.
						
						
							Harmonics
							3,
							6,
							9,
							12,
							15,
							18,
							21,
							24.
						
						
							Vibrations
							90,
							180,
							270,
							360,
							450,
							540,
							630,
							720.
						
						
							Letters
							G,
							G,
							D,
							G,
							B,
							D,
							--,
							G.
						
						
							Harmonics
							4,
							8,
							12,
							16,
							20,
							24,
							28,
							32.
						
						
							Vibrations
							120,
							240,
							360,
							480,
							600,
							720,
							840,
							960.
						
						
							Letters
							C,
							C,
							G,
							C,
							E,
							G,
							--,
							C.
						
						
							Harmonics
							5,
							10,
							15,
							20,
							25,
							30,
							35,
							40.
						
						
							Vibrations
							150,
							300,
							450,
							600,
							750,
							900,
							1050,
							1200.
						
						
							Letters
							E,
							E,
							B,
							E,
							--,
							B,
							--,
							E.
						
						
							Harmonics
							6,
							12,
							18,
							24,
							30,
							36,
							42,
							48.
						
						
							Vibrations
							180,
							360,
							540,
							720,
							900,
							1080,
							1260,
							1440.
						
						
							Letters
							G,
							G,
							D,
							G,
							B,
							D,
							--,
							G.
						
						
							Harmonics
							7,
							14,
							21,
							28,
							35,
							42,
							49,
							56.
						
						
							Vibrations
							210,
							420,
							630,
							840,
							1050,
							1260,
							1470,
							1680.
						
						
							Letters
							--,
							--,
							--,
							--,
							--,
							--,
							--,
							--.
						
					


					

					It must not be supposed, however, that all the harmonics numbered in the same line of
						figures in the above table will co-exist, but the left hand number will co-exist with
						any other number in the same line; as, for example, 2 will co-exist with 4, 6, 8, and so
						on throughout the line; so will 8--16, 6--12, or 4--8, co-exist; but as to all other
						combinations in the same line of figures co-existence is impossible; that is, 4--6,
						6--8, 8--10; and 6--9, 9--12, 12--15, and so on throughout all the sections of the
						table, cannot co-exist. The law that co-existence can take place only between the
						aliquot parts of the whole monochord, and the aliquot parts of its aliquot parts, is
						imperative. The only ratio in which all the harmonics made on the monochord can
						co-exist, is as follows:
					
						TABLE 3.
						
							Harmonics
							1,
							2,
							4,
							8,
							16,
							32,
							64,
							128.
						
						
							Vibrations
							30,
							60,
							120,
							240,
							480,
							960,
							1920,
							3840.
						
						
							Letters
							C,
							C,
							C,
							C,
							C,
							C,
							C,
							C.
						
					

					But in such combinations they are all of the same letter, being but octaves and unisons
						of one another, Any letter, however, produced by this ratio may co-exist with its
						fundamental tone; as, if you take the numbers 3, 6, 12, 24, and thus throughout, you
						will produce all G's; or with 5, 10, 20, 40, and so on you will produce all E's. Besides
						the unisons and octaves, the only co-existent concordant intervals possible between
						harmonics are C--E, C--G, G--B, and G--D, while innumerable dissonances are continually
						flocking in; for example, in the section of the table beginning with 7, we produce not a
						single musical interval. In the division of the first and second octaves we have no
						discords--and it is this fact, no doubt, which led to the belief that the musical scale
						complied with the  harmonic series--in the-third octave we
						have 1 wild harmonic, representing no musical interval; in the fourth, 3; in the fifth,
						11; in the sixth, 27; in the seventh, 59; in the eighth, 123; and these, let it be
						remembered, all fall within the limits of the musical compass. Now, if these were
						audibly let loose, and "mixed" with the music of an orchestra (and if Prof. Tyndall's
						theory of co-existences were true they might be), no wonder the imagination would retire
						baffled," to say nothing of the fate of our ears! The plain and sufficient answer to all
						this is that they do not practically exist, and cannot possibly co-exist. They sleep on
						the strings as mere possibilities, to be awakened only by the volition of the performer;
						and even then, except some six or eight of the first, are aroused from their repose with
						great difficulty.
					We will next endeavor to explain the system of harmonics on wind instruments of music,
						trumpets, flutes, clarionets, pipes; in short on all wind instruments, except those
						whose sounds are produced simply by reeds, or metallic tongues, unconnected with pipes
						or tubes; for on tha latter class no harmonies can be made. It is impossible to divide a
						simple reed or tongue of the ordinary length, and under ordinary conditions for
						producing musical tones, unconnected with a pipe or tube, into aliquot vibrations;
						another strong proof that co-existence does not always take place in
						musical sounds.
					Harmonics on wind instruments follow the same law of production as they do on strings,
						but their co-existences are confined simply to unisons. We have not only the evidence of
						the senses to support this proposition, but also the scientific deductions of  the mind, which, on investigation, will appear very plain.
						On a string the nodes, while they must be resting points for their own harmonics, may
						vibrate in the production of any other harmonic of whieh they are aliquot parts. This is
						impossible in a pipe, because the nodes, being merely re-actionary points, are as fixed
						as, the walls of the instrument, and therefore can not vibrate; although they may change
						their places, as move up or down, or increase their number to accommodate themselves to
						any other harmonic, but they can not be nodes to one tone and vibrate for the purposes
						of another different tone at the same time, as they may on a string. A pipe does not
						cause the tone directly; it merely moulds the wind furnished to it into vibrations,
						which produce the tone. A string imparts, the vibrations directly from itself to the
						air, and the sonorous or resonant body takes them up and gives back the tone. On the
						string it is action, in the pipe it is reaction. The nodes of a tone in a wind
						instrument are but reacting points from its walls, and therefore can not co-exist except
						in one system of aliquot parts at a time. As there can not be two different series of
						vibrations passing through a pipe at the same time, it can not therefore. possibly
						produce two different tones at the same time-- hence there can be no co-existences
						except between unisons.
					Prof. Tyndall mentions no distinction between the co-existences of harmonics in a pipe
						or on the monochord, and makes no exception with regard to tones produced by reeds or
						tongues blown by wind unconnected with tubes, and none, indeed, in any case. If his
						theory, that every musical tone is always attended
							 with harmonics be true, their harmonics must have their
						harmonics ad infinitum; for there is no scientific difference between
						the causes which produce a fundamental tone, and those which produce a harmonic.
						Whenever a string is divided into harmonics it is the same as if each one was produced
						on a separate string; and in a pipe each harmonic is produced by a separate ventral
						segment, the same as if each one was a separate pipe. They are all alike produced and
						supported by a series of isochronous vibrations, and any harmonic within the musical
						compass may become a fundamental tone.
					Having shown by demonstration, as we think, the law which governs the production of
						harmonics, and in what combinations on the various kinds of instruments they may
						co-exist, we now propose to show what effect Prof. Tyndall's system of musical sounds
						would have on the art of music. We will assume that harmonics audibly exist, and
						co-exist, as Prof. Tyndall claims they do, and give him the benefit of arranging the
						fundamental tones into concords. We propose to take his own tables, in which he thinks
						he chases dissonance to its vanishing point, analyze them, express their musical
						intervals by letters and the number of their vibrations, arrange them consecutively, and
						see what kind of harmony they will produce. We shall change them in no respect in
						principle, but will assume C at 240 vibrations per second, instead of 264, and count the
						fundamentals with their harmonics inclusive, so that we may have the whole system of
						tones before us in one view.
					The following table, No. 4, will show the harmonics taken from C, E, G, as fundamental
						tones--the common chord, as musicians call it--and their concordant  and discordant relations to their own respective fundamental tones, and to
						the fundamental tones of one another, and between themselves. The column of figures on
						the left shows the numbers of the harmonics, and refers to all the columns in the table.
						Each column of letters refers to the column of figures next on its right, and each
						column of figures shows the number of the vibrations of its letters on the left:

					
						TABLE 4.
						
							1, C,
							240, E,
							300, G,
							360, C,
							480
						
						
							2, C,
							480, E,
							600, G,
							720, C,
							960
						
						
							3, G,
							720, B,
							900, D,
							1080, G,
							1400
						
						
							4, C,
							960, E,
							1200, G,
							1400, C,
							1920
						
						
							5, E,
							1200, G sharp,
							1500, B,
							1800, E,
							2400
						
						
							6, G,
							1440, B,
							1800, D,
							2160, G,
							2880
						
						
							7, A sharp,
							1680, D flat,
							2100, F,
							2520, A sharp,
							3360
						
						
							8, C,
							1920, E,
							2400, G,
							2880, C,
							3840
						
						
							9, D,
							2160, F sharp,
							2700, A,
							3240, D,
							4320
						
						
							10, E,
							2400, G sharp,
							3000, B,
							3600, E,
							4800
						
					

					The above tabular view represents the concords of but one octave in the musical
						compass, with their harmonics up to the 10th inclusive. Their tones may be written in
						musical notation, or they may be shown consecutively by the following letters with their
						flats and sharps:
					C, D flat, D, E, F, F sharp, G, G sharp, A, A sharp, B, C, D flat, D, E, F, F sharp, G,
						G sharp, A, A sharp, B, C, D flat, D, E, F, F sharp, G, G sharp, A, A sharp, B, C, D
						flat, D, E.
					They represent the chromatic scale with the single exception of E flat--though the
						intervals are not all strictly correct--and are the tones which would co-exist according
						to Prof. Tyndall's theory. The musician  sees at a glance
						that their co-existence is a solid mass of discord. A slash on all the keys of a piano
						--black and white--at a single blow, or an orchestra tortured into every discord within
						its compass, could not be worse. To simplify the principle: The common chord of C is C,
						E, G; the common chord of G is G, B, D; the common chord of E is E, G sharp, and B. Now
						bring these together consecutively, and we have C, D, E, G, G sharp, and B, an
						unendurable discord; yet this would be the first and simplest effect of Prof. Tyndall's
						theory. And this, it must be remembered, is the system of harmonics built upon the
						common chord of only one octave--three tones of the seven diatonic
						intervals. Of course the same system, if true, would belong to each of the other four
						intervals of the diatonic scale, and also to each of the semitones of the chromatic
						scale, and would be repeated in each octave throughout the musical compass. Such a
						complication of audible sounds to a musician would be inconceivably horrible! The
						theory, however, is so engaging, and finds such apparent support in fact, by producing
						the concords of the key note C, G, E, in the first five harmonies; that it is no wonder
						it occasionally finds an advocate. The ninth harmonic gives the second in the diatonic
						scale, and the fifteenth gives the seventh. After this we obtain no new musical
						relations, but get an innumerable brood of wild intervals, and tricksy discords, which
						belong to no scale whatever, and in art are entirely unmanageable.
					Prof. Tyndall, although discoursing much of consonances and dissonances, omits to fully
						explain what by many readers of a work on sound would be regarded as the most
						interesting part--the musical scale.  What he says about
						it, if not incorrect, is very incautiously stated. In reference to it he use such
						phrases as these: "We choose sounds which are in harmony * * *. In choosing a series of
						sounds . . . . The notes chosen are such as form chords," etc., and speaks of
						"interpolating" some of the intervals into the diatonic scale. Every uninstructed reader
						would naturally infer from such language that the musical scale was chosen arbitrarily.
						We can no more choose how musical intervals shall arrange themselves than we can choose
						how the original colors shall fall on the spectrum. And we are surprised to find Prof.
						Tyndall supported by a late high authority, which says: "In fact, there is no reason in
						the nature of things why we may not avoid dissonances with notes separated by other
						intervals than those of our European musical scale."*
					Prof. Tyndall is also supported in his views of co-existent harmonics by a still later
							authority,† which says: "A true
						note, or musical sound, contains in itself a third, a fifth, and an octave."
					It seems to us that these writers never made their own experiments, nor solved the
						problems of the musical scale for themselves, or they would have been led to doubt the
						soundness of their own propositions. It seems to us, also, that no scientific
						proposition could be more inconsiderately stated. It has no foundation in fact. There is
						no other arrangement "in the nature of things" than the diatonic scale, by which we can
						avoid dissonances with the key note, and there is *Edinburgh' Review, January 1868.
						†London Quarterly, July,
							1871.
						 no other whereby we can obtain intervals concordant
						between themselves. The musical scale is a system of sounds built on a key note by a law
						as imperative as that which requires a tower to rest within its base, or a statue to
						stand within the perpendicular of its pedestal. True, we may build leaning towers, and
						we can erect distorted statues; but who will contend that in doing so we are obeying the
						laws of architecture or sculpture? No one, certainly. They are clear violations of these
						laws, which may exist, however, within certain restricted limits. So our tastes may be
						taught to endure discords, or even love them for the sake of the concords with which
						they may be associated, as the miller may, from association, learn to love the clack of
						his mill, or the operative the whiz and whir of his machinery; but the relations of
						concords and discords to a key note, and to one another, are not merely questions of
						taste--they are problems of pure mathematics, proved alike by the relations of
						quantities and ratios of numbers. Science settles the musical scale beyond doubt. There
						can no more be two musical scales in nature than there can be two kinds of mathematics
						in science. When we can change the ratios of numbers and the relations of quantities,
						then we can change the laws of harmony; but while the laws of harmony remain as they
						are, the intervals of the musical scale can never be arbitrary.
					The musical scale of the various Oriental nations is referred to in support of the
						proposition that it is arbitrary, and a mere question of taste as to its intervals. It
						is true that the scales of the East differ from that of Europe, but by no means as
						widely as is generally supposed. Five of the intervals of the Chinese  scale correspond with the five leading intervals of the
						European diatonic scale--namely, the octave, fifth, fourth, second, and major sixth. The
						scale of the Japanese has the same intervals. The third in the Chinese scale is placed
						midway between the second and fourth, which, of course, is false, both as to the major
						and minor third; and the seventh is placed midway between the sixth and octave, which is
						neither the true flat nor full seventh. The old Scottish scale differs from these only
						in having a correct major third, and no fourth or seventh at all. It will be observed
						that these Eastern scales, as incomplete as they are, contain five leading concords--the
						octave, fifth, fourth, major sixth and minor third, all, indeed, but two, the major
						third and minor sixth--of the established European diatonic scale. Music of considerable
						excellence, even to European ears, could be written on the Eastern scales by avoiding
						the two false intervals. Dr. Burney thought that the eastern nations had no settled
						musical scale, which is probably true, with the exception of the main concords as stated
						above.
					It is due to Prof. Tyndall, however, to say that he does not pretend to enter fully
						into the subject of the scale; but, in our judgment, a work on sound which fails to
						explain the musical scale is incomplete, whatever may be its merits in other respects.
						We propose, therefore, to supply this omission as well as our limited space will
						allow.

					Having given the analysis of harmony, and shown the law which governs the production of
						harmonics, and also the rule that regulates their co-existence on the various
						instruments, we are now prepared to demonstrate that the law of harmony governs the  arrangement of the intervals in the musical scale; and our
						proposition is: The concords of the key note, and the concords of the concords of the
						key note-- taking the most perfect first--constitute the musical scale.
					In the first example, for the purpose of illustrating the subject clearly; we shall
						follow the process, step by step, in detail, even at the risk of some tediousness and
						repetition, begging the reader's pardon, as well as his attention, in advance. Keeping
						the proposition carefully in mind, then, we first assume a fundamental tone or key note,
						which may be any one within the range of the musical compass; but for convenience we
						adopt our standard C. We do not take the octaves, because they would simply repeat the
						same letter, and would of course produce no other interval. The most perfect concord of
						C, ascending, except its octave, is its fifth, which is G. We have now C and G. The next
						most perfect concord of C is its fourth, which is F. We now have C, F, G. Next we begin
						at G as a basis, because it is the most perfect concord of C, except its octave. The
						most perfect concord of G, except its octave, is its fifth, which is D. Now we have C,
						D, F and G. This D is produced in the next octave above, as several other intervals will
						be as we proceed, but, for convenience, we bring them into the same octave, and place
						them in consecutive order. We next begin at F as a basis, because, after G, it is the
						most perfect concord of C. The most perfect concord of F, except its octave, is its
						fifth, which merely repeats C, an octave higher than the C with which we began. We now
						have C, D, F, G, C. We will now return to G as a basis. The next most  perfect concord to G--having already used its fifth-- is
						its fourth, which repeats the C again, and of course gives us no additional interval. We
						now begin again at F as a basis. The next most perfect concord of F --having used its
						fifth--is its fourth, which is B flat. Now we have C, D, F, G, B flat, C. In the order
						of our process we now return again to C, as our basis. The next most perfect concord of
						C--having used its fifth and fourth--is its major third, which is E. We have now C, D,
						E, F, G, B flat, C. Still pursuing the order, we must begin again at G. The next most
						perfect concord of G--having used its fifth and fourth --is its major third, which is B.
						Now we have C, D, E, F, G, B flat, B, C. Next in order as a basis is F, and the next
						most perfect concord of F--having used its fifth and fourth--is its major third, which
						is A. We now have C, D, E, F, G, A, B flat, B, C. Now returning to C again as a basis,
						its next most perfect concord--having used its fifth, fourth and major third --is its
						major sixth, which merely repeats A. Coming to G again as a basis, and having used its
						fifth, fourth and major third, its next most perfect concord is its major sixth, which
						is merely a repetition of E. Now we are at F again as a basis. The next most perfect
						concord of F--having used its fifth, fourth and major third--is its major sixth, which
						brings us D again. Now we are hack to C again as a basis, and having exhausted its
						fifth, fourth, major third and major sixth, we must take its minor third, which is its
						next most perfect concord, and which gives us E flat. We have now C, D, E flat, E, F, G,
						A, B flat, B. C. The basis next in order is G, and the next most perfect concord of
						G--having used its fifth, fourth, major  third and major
						sixth--is its minor third, which only repeats B flat. Now F comes in as a basis again,
						and the next most perfect concord of F--having used its fifth, fourth, major third and
						major sixth--is its minor third, which repeats A flat. We now have C, D, E flat, E, F,
						G, A flat, A, B flat, B, C. The order pursued now returns us to C again as a basis. The
						next most perfect concord of C--having exhausted its fifth, fourth, major third, major
						sixth and minor third --is its minor sixth, which only repeats A flat. Our next basis is
						G, and its most perfect concord--having also exhausted its fifth, fourth, major third,
						major sixth and minor third--is its minor sixth, which only repeats B flat. The basis
						next in order is F. The next most perfect concord of F--having exhausted its fifth,
						fourth, major third, major sixth and minor third--is its minor sixth, which is C sharp.
						We have in our scale now C, C sharp, D, E flat, E, F, G, A flat, A, B flat, B, C. At
						this point we have exhausted all the leading concords of the key note, and therefore,
						according to our proposition, we must next resort to the concords of the concords of the
						key note. Now, as we have already said, the most perfect concord of the key note C, its
						oetave excepted, is its fifth, which is G; and the most perfect concord of G, its octave
						excepted, is its fifth, which is D; therefore, D is our next basis. The most perfect
						concord of D, its octave excepted, is its fifth, which is A; its next most perfect
						concord is its fourth, which repeats G; and its next most perfect concord is its major
						third, which gives F sharp. This completes the musical scale, with twelve, intervals in
						the octave, represented by C, C sharp, D, E flat, E, F, F sharp, G, A flat, A, B flat,
						B, C. The  next basis would be the fourth above G, which
						is C, an octave above the letter with which we began. Continued progress in the same
						order would, of course, but repeat the same scale again and again, ending each time an
						octave above the point at which we started. This at once fulfills and exhausts our
						proposition. 
					It will be observed that several of the letters are repeated from different points and
						by different concords. In some instances the interval, as repeated from a more remote or
						less perfect concord, does not precisely agree with itself as produced by a less remote
						or more perfect concord. In such cases the interval, as first produced by the concord
						nearest to the key note, and most perfect, is the. true interval and should be retained
						instead of its repetition obtained by a less perfect concord, or one more remote from
						the key note. And an interval produced by a less perfect concord based on a concord of
						the key note--and therefore nearer to the key note--is to be preferred to its repetition
						by a more perfect concord based on a discord of the key note--and-therefore, in the
						order of perfection, more remote from the key note. For example: The A is produced by
						the major third above F, and therefore is to be preferred to its repetition by a fifth
						above D, because F is a concord of the key note, and D is a discord to the key note,
						although the fifth, in itself, is a more perfect concord than the. major third. So B
						flat is produced by a fourth above F, and is, therefore, to be preferred to its
						repetition by a minor third above G, because the fourth is a more perfect concord than
						the minor third; although the G as a basis is nearer theokey note than  the F, both, however, being concords of the key note. But
						all the points at first produced, by taking the most perfect concords first, are perfect
						intervals.
					We will next produce the same scale on the monochord, in vibrating lengths, and in
						stopping distances, by the same method; and we may be much briefer in this illustration
						than we were in the first one, because we need not so often repeat the degrees of the
						concords, which, however, should be carefully kept in mind while we proceed. We begin
						with a monochord which may be tuned to any tone, the whole vibrating length of which we
						count one. The vibrating length of its fifth, ascending, is two-thirds; of its fourth,
						three-fourths; of the fifth of its fifth, eight-ninths; of the fourth of its fifth,
						one-half; of the fifth of its fourth, one-half; of the fourth of its fourth,
						nine-sixteenths. The vibrating length of the major third of the whole chord, ascending,
						is four-fifths; of the major third of its fifth, eight-fifteenths; of the major third of
						its fourth, three-fifths. The vibrating length of the major sixth of the whole chord,
						ascending, is three-fifths; of the major sixth of its fifth, four-fifths; of the major
						sixth of its fourth, eight-ninths. The vibrating length of the minor third of the whole
						chord is five-sixths; of the minor third of its fifth, nine-sixteenths; of the minor
						third of its fourth, five-eighths. The vibrating length of the fifth of the fifth of the
						whole chord is eight-ninths; of the fourth of the fifth of its fifth, two-thirds; of the
						major third of the fifth of its fifth, seven-tenths; of the minor third of the fifth of
						its fifth, three-fourths. This completes the scale in vibrating lengths, the tones of
						which will exactly correspond with the letters, as we produced it in the first  instance. The stopping distances, or steps, in relation to
						the whole chord, are, of course, but the respective remainders after deducting the
						several vibrating lengths, and in that mode need not be stated; but we will state them
						in the relation of each interval to its vibrating part of the chord, for the purpose of
						showing their proportions to one another, and to the stopping points on the chord, which
						may be done as follows: One, one-sixteenth, one-nineteenth, one-sixteenth,
						one-twenty-fifth, one-sixteenth, one-nineteenth, one-sixteenth, one-sixteenth,
						one-twenty-fifth, one-sixteenth, one-nineteenth, one-sixteenth. This will bring us to
						the middle of the chord. We have thus shown the scale in vibrating lengths, in stopping
						distances, and the proportions the intervals bear to one another, the same as in the
						first instance we represented it by letters.
					We will now state the same scale by the same process in numbers, placing the intervals
						in one octave, and in consecutive order. Assuming the standard C at 480, its fifth is
						720, its fourth, 640; the fifth of its fifth, 540, the fourth of its fifth, 960; the
						fifth of its fourth, 960; the fourth of its fourth, 853. The major third of the 480 is
						600, the major third of its fifth, 900; the major third of its fourth, 800. The major
						sixth of the 480 is 800, the major sixth of its fifth, 600; the major sixth of its
						fourth, 540. The minor third of the 480 is 576, the minor third of its fifth, 853; the
						minor third of its fourth, 768. The minor sixth of the 480 is 768, the minor sixth of
						its fifth, 576; the minor sixth of its fourth, 512. The fifth of the fifth of the 480 is
						540, the fourth of the fifth of the fifth, 720; the major third of the fifth of the
						fifth, 675; the  minor third of the fifth of the fifth,
						640. These intervals represent the following series: 480, 512, 540, 576, 600, 640, 675,
						720, 768, 800, 853, 900, 960, which completes the scale in numbers, and represents the
						vibrations of the letters as produced in the first example. We have thus, by the same
						process, obtained the scale; first, in letters; second, in quantities, and third, in
						numbers--all exactly the same. It seems to us, the concurrence of these three modes
						fully establishes the truth of our proposition, namely: That the law of harmony governs
						the arrangement of the intervals of the musical scale.
					It should be remembered, however, that the only strictly scientific method of solving
						the problem of the musical scale is by numbers. The letters which represent it, when
						flat or sharp, represent only approximate quantities. This is owing to the fact that
						what are called whole tones are unequal, and also to the excess of what is denominated a
						semi-tone over one-half of a whole tone. And it is impossible to make measurements on a
						monochord physically, even with the nicest instruments, as accurately as the divisions
						can be shown in numbers. For instance, there are infinitesimal errors in the distances
						on the monochord in the production of the scale by measurement which numbers may detect.
						We rely, therefore, on the solution of the problem by numbers for the elimination of all
						error. The method removes the question from the uncertainty of the senses, and brings it
						purely within the domain of the understanding, where the eye of the mind can see what
						the ear of flesh can never hear.
					Geometry furnishes us with many interesting analogies of the musical scale, as all
						sciences do, indeed,  which deal in the proportions of
						quantities or numbers. On a monochord, the length of which is equal to all the sides of
						the following figures, the several sides will mark the concords as follows: One side of
						an equilateral triangle gives the internal of the fifth; one side of a square a fourth,
						two sides an octave; one side of a pentagon gives a major third, two sides a major
						sixth; one side of a hexagon gives the minor third, two sides a fifth, three sides an
						octave. The heptagon is the same as the seventh harmonic on the monochord, and will give
						no musical interval whatever. Two sides of an octagon will give a fourth, and four sides
						an octave. The radius of a circle upon a monochord, the length of which is equal to its
						circumference, gives the tempered minor third, its diameter a sharp fourth, or flat
						fifth. Thus the scale proves itself geometrically no less certainly than by numbers and
						quantities.
					It must not be inferred, however, because we have produced a natural scale with twelve
						intervals in the octave--the same number now used in all fixed scales -- that,
						therefore, every tone of the twelve may be used as a key note, as they may in the
						tempered scale. By no means. Nature gives us but one key note in octave. They could not
						all be used as key notes unless the intervals were all equal; and nature does not make
						all her musical intervals equal any more than she makes all her numbers even. It will be
						noticed that in each octave, as shown in distances on the monochord, according to the
						scale we have produced, there are three classes of intervals, namely, one-sixteenth,
						one-nineteenth, one-twenty-fifth; and it is the same, of course, whether the. scale is
						represented  by letters or shown in numbers. In the octave
						there are seven intervals of one-sixteenth, three of one-nineteenth, and two of
						one-twenty-fifth. All these different intervals must be kept in their proper relations
						to the key note, or the scale would produce neither melody nor harmony. The whole
						arrangement, however, may of course be moved either up or down, and placed at any point
						within the musical compass, still preserving the same relations to the key note. This is
						done in the diatonic scale, on instruments of fixed tones-- as organs or pianos--by
						inserting a semitone in the middle of each whole tone, and then equalizing all the
						semitones thus created, including the two natural semitones, which, in all, will make
						twelve--and is called temperament. But it should never be forgotten
						that temperament is no necessity of nature. Much confusion has been
						introduced, even among excellent musicians, by supposing that temperament in the musical
						scale is the correction of some apparent blunder in nature, in order to make it
						subservient to art. It is nothing of the kind. Nature never blunders in her laws.
						Termperament is merely an artificial contrivance of man, by which he obtains, at the
						expense of some slight imperfection, twelve key notes in the octave when nature has
						given him but one. It is, in fact, putting twelve instruments into one case. But this
						does not apply to instruments of the viol class. Upon these, temperament is no
						necessity, because--their intervals being changeable at the pleasure of the performer--a
						key note nay be made of any degree of sound within their range. Counting the lowest C on
						the violin, for example, at four hundred and eighty vibrations, it has, within
						scientific possibility, four hundred and eighty key notes 
						in the first octave; but of course in concert none but the twelve are used. It might, at
						first view, seem that intervals varying as much as they do in the diatonic scale--as
						one-ninth to one-tenth, and as one-sixteenth to one-eighteenth, or as they do in the
						scale we have produced, namely, as one-sixteenth, one-nineteenth and one-twenty-fifth,
						would resist all accommodation of equality so as to become interchangeable as key notes;
						but the difference is not really as great as it at first appears to be. The
						one-sixteenth, one-nineteeth and one-twenty-fifth show the stopping distances on the
						monochord, the average of which, when all in the octave are used, is one-eighteenth;
							* the same as it is in the
						diatonic scale when the five semi-tones are inserted, and the whole octave equally
						tempered. The vibrating lengths on the monochord--which show their real differences--are
						fifteen-sixteenths, eighteen-nineteenths, and twenty-four-twenty-fifths, the average of
						which, when the twelve are used, is seventeen-eighteenths eighteenths,* the same also, as it is in the tempered
						chromatic scale. The ratios of differences are not in the stopping distances, but in the
						vibrating lengths. The same intervals stated in numbers have the following relations to
						each other--512, 507 and 500--the average of which, when all in the octave are used, is
						508, not noticing decimals--and this is the average of the tempered semitone when
						expressed in numbers.
					The following table, No. 5, will show the scale as *In the one-eighteenth and seventeen-eighteenths there is an
								error of an inappreciable cast-off fraction, which need not be noticed in obtaining
								stopping distances or vibrating lengths on the monochord, but may be easily shown in
								numbers.
						 produced by each of the methods we have adopted, also the
						tempered scale, and the differences between the true and tempered intervals:



					
						TABLE No. 5.
						
							TRUE SCALE.
							TEMPERED SCALE.
						

						
							C
							960
							1/2
							1/16
							960
							1/2
							1/18
						
						
							B
							900
							8/15
							1/19
							906
							7,858/15
							1/18
						
						
							B flat
							853
							9/16
							1/16
							855
							8,979/16
							1/18
						
						
							A
							800
							3/5
							1/25
							807
							2,974/5
							1/18
						
						
							G sharp
							768
							5/8
							1/16
							762
							5,040/8
							1/18
						
						
							G
							720
							2/3
							1/16
							719
							2,004/3
							1/18
						
						
							F sharp
							675
							7/10
							1/19
							678
							6,940/10
							1/18
						
						
							F
							640
							3/4
							1/16
							641
							2,839/4
							1/18
						
						
							E
							600
							4/5
							1/25
							604
							3,974/5
							1/18
						
						
							E flat
							576
							5/6
							1/16
							571
							5,043/6
							1/18
						
					

					

					
						TABLE No. 5--Continued.
						
							TRUE SCALE.
							TEMPERED SCALE.
						
						
							D
							540
							8/9
							1/19
							539
							8,015/9
							1/18
						
						
							C sharp
							512
							15/16
							1/16
							508
							17/18
							1/18
						
						
							C
							480
							1
							1
							480
							1
							1
						
						
							h
							k
							l
							m
							n
							o
							p
						
					
					Column h shows the letters; column k shows the
						vibrations of each tone in the true scale; column l shows the
						vibrating lengths on the monochord in the true scale; and the column m
						shows the stopping distances of the true scale on the monochord. Column n shows the vibrations of each tone in the tempered scale;
						column o shows the vibrating lengths on the monochord in the tempered
						scale; and column p shows the stopping distances in the tempered scale
						on the monochord.
					It will be perceived that the differences, as shown in numbers, between the major third
						and minor third, and the major sixth and the minor sixth, in the true scale, and the
						same intervals in the tempered scale, are but slight; and in those between the fourths
						and fifths of the two scales, almost nothing. Of course, as any concord and its reflex
						just fills the octave, where one is too flat the other will be too sharp in the same  proportion, and when one is too sharp the other will be too
						flat in like proportion. The greatest variance between the two scales in the major
						thirds and minor thirds, or in the major sixths and minor sixths, is not equal to one
						vibration in one hundred; and in the fourths and fifths not one in six hundred. It is
						extremely difficult to detect variations so slight by the sense of the ear, though to
						the mind it is demonstrable in numbers. The octaves in both scales of course are
						perfect.
					There is another method of temperament sometimes tried, called the unequal temperament, whereby the attempt is made by tuning certain intervals
						unequal, so as to throw, as it is claimed, all the imperfections into the remote keys,
						as that of seven sharps or seven flats, thereby, as is supposed, leaving the other keys
						more perfect. But a little examination will show that this plan is perfectly fallacious,
						because the advantage gained by this means in one key returns a disadvantage in the next
						change: That is, if you tune in favor of the key obtained by using one sharp, for
						instance, you will have to restore the gain to the key obtained by using one flat; and
						in like manner throughout all the transpositions you will find similar changes.




					


					
						TABLE No. 6.



						SHOWING THE UNTEMPERED TRANSPOSITION SCAIE.
						
							 
							F flat.
							C flat.
							G flat.
							D flat.
							A flat.
							E flat.
							B flat.
							 
							 
							 
							F sharp.
							C sharp.
							G sharp.
							D sharp.
							A sharp.
							E sharp.
							B sharp.
							 
						
						
							960
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							960
							C
							960
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							960
						
						
							900
							900
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							900
							B
							900
							 
							 
							 
							 
							910
							 
							 
							906
						
						
							853
							844
							 
							 
							 
							 
							853
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							853
							 
							 
							855
						
						
							800
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							800
							 
							800
							A
							800
							 
							 
							810
							 
							 
							 
							 
							807
						
						
							768
							750
							 
							 
							758
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							760
							 
							760
							 
							 
							761
						
						
							720
							 
							 
							 
							712
							 
							720
							 
							720
							G
							720
							720
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							719
						
						
							675
							675
							675
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							675 
							 
							675
							 
							682
							682
							 
							678
						
						
							640
							 
							640
							 
							640
							 
							640
							640
							640
							F
							640
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							640
							 
							640
						
						
							600
							600
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							600
							600
							E
							600
							600
							 
							607
							607
							607
							 
							 
							604
						
						
							576
							562
							562
							 
							569
							569
							569
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							570
							570
							570
							 
							570
						
						
							540
							 
							 
							 
							 
							533
							533
							533
							540
							D
							540
							540
							540
							540
							 
							 
							 
							 
							538
						
						
							506
							505
							505
							505
							505
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							506
							506
							506
							512
							512
							512
							508
						
						
							480
							 
							 
							474
							474
							474
							480
							480
							480
							C
							480
							480
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							480
						
						
							450
							450
							450
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							450
							B
							450
							450
							450
							455
							455
							455
							455
							 
							453
						
						
							426
							 
							421
							421
							427
							427
							427
							427
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							426 
							426
							427
						
						
							400
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							400
							400
							A
							400
							405
							405
							405
							405
							 
							 
							 
							404
						
						
							384
							 
							379
							379
							379
							379
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							380
							 
							383
							383
							381
						
						
							360
							 
							 
							 
							 
							355
							 
							360
							360
							G
							360
							360
							360
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							359
						
						
							337
							 
							337
							337
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							337
							 
							337
							 
							341
							341
							339
						
						
							320
							 
							 
							316
							 
							320
							 
							320
							320
							F
							320
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							320
							320
						
						
							300
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							300
							E
							300
							 
							303
							 
							303
							 
							 
							 
							302
						
						
							288
							 
							 
							284
							 
							284
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							288
							286
						
						
							270
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							270
							D
							270
							 
							270
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							270
						
						
							253
							 
							 
							258
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							256
							254
						
						
							240
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							240
							C
							240
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							 
							240
						
						
							a
							b
							c
							d
							e
							f
							g
							h
							i
							k
							l
							m
							n
							o
							p
							q
							r
							s
							t
						
					
					The above table, No. 6, will show the shifting of each note through the various
						transpositions of the twelve keys. The letter k marks the column which
						shows the letters of the diatonic scale throughout two octaves; columns i and 1 show the vibrations per second of each tone; column
							a shows the natural chromatic scale; column t
						shows the tempered chromatic scale; the top line of the table shows the letters in the
						order in which they are flatted and sharped; columns b, c, d, e, f, g,
							h show the key notes, and the scales for one octave in each key as they are
						obtained by flats, and columns m, n, o, p, q, r, s show the same as
						obtained by sharps.


					
					This table also shows the imperfections of the tempered scale as compared with the true
						or natural scale, and shows which tones are affected by temperament, and which are not
						so affected. Not to complicate the numbers impracticably, the decimals are sometimes
						cast off and sometimes added, but in no instance is there an error which will amount to
						one vibration, unless it has crept in by miscalculation. The result shows in one view
						the difference between music as an art, when expressed through instruments with fixed
						tones, and music as a science founded on fixed laws; and it will be seen that the
						difference is very slight, perhaps less than between any other art and the science upon
						which it rests; for no art fulfills the exactions of its science. Science belongs to
						mind; art deals with sense. In architecture, more especially in large and lofty
						structures, variations in lines and curves are purposely made to obtain the proper
						effect upon the senses; and in sculpture proportions are changed to heighten the effect
						of the art. Perhaps no celebrated painting in the world would prove to be perfect in its
						perspective on application of the meter, yet as a work of art it is not seriously
						injured by such slight defects. And no applied science fulfills the exactions of its
						abstract principles. If the astronomer made no allowances for disturbing causes, his
						conclusions would be practically incorrect; in other words; he varies the abstract to
						prove the truth of the concrete. A cube or a sphere are perfect figures to the mind, yet
						no art can produce either to the senses without some slight defect. In short, we may as
						well declare the circle an imperfect figure because we can not  square its area, as to complain of the musical scale because in constructing
						instruments with fixed tones, and in obtaining twelve key notes in the octave when there
						is really but one, we are compelled to resort to temerament. The imperfection is not in
						the scale, but in the instrument. On the viol, or in human voice, no temperament is
						necessary, because on the viol the performer commands every degree of sound within its
						compass, and the human voice in its intervals is perfect in all keys alike.
					The history of the musical scale begins almost with the human race. Tubal Cain is
						supposed to have been its first discoverer or teacher. It can be plainly traced from the
						Eastern nations into Egypt, thence to Greece, and through Rome into modern Europe. It is
						also found among the nations of South America, and, in a rude state, among the North
						American Indians. In all places, and in all periods of its history, some of its
						intervals have been correct. The octave and fifth were early settled. At later periods
						the major third, the fourth and second, were ascertained; at length, the sharp seventh
						was discovered. The last and greatest difficulty has been to find the true points of the
						sixth and flat seventh, neither of which, strictly speaking, are beyond dispute to this
						day. The arrangement has undergone various changes in all except the leading concords.
						No doubt, during its history, in the empyrical efforts to make it perfect, every one of
						the twelve intervals we now use have been produced, some at one time, some at another,
						but never all in the same scale, in their correct proportions to one another, and in
						their  true relations to the key note. And those in modern
						times who divided the whole tones of the diatonic scale into semitones for the purpose
						of transposing the key note, thus producing a scale with twelve intervals in the octave,
						seem to have "builded wiser than they knew;" for it does not appear that they ever
						supposed the true scale, when completed; had the same number of intervals. In our
						judgment, the scale we have produced, with twelve intervals in the octave, is the true
						musical scale. We think its division into major diatonic, minor diatonic, and chromatic
						scales is merely arbitrary-- it is simply the musical scale. It seems
						to have been struggling to express itself ever since the earliest record of man. Every
						one of the scales which have been used have had some of the correct intervals; in many
						of them all the intervals used were correct--the scale being merely incomplete; as, for
						instance, the two tetrachords of Pythagoras, and the arrangement known as the Scottish
						scale, which has neither the fourth nor the seventh, but in all other respects is
						correct. And we think the process by which the scale is obtained resembles its history.
						In the first octave it produces but one interval, in the second two, in the third four,
						and so on till we have the major diatonic scale, with seven intervals; then it adds the
						minor to the major diatonic, with the same key note--including both keys together--thus
						giving us a scale with ten intervals; lastly, following the same law, it produces two
						more intervals, thus completing a scale with twelve intervals in the octave; after this
						the same process  will repeat itself forever without
						obtaining another musical interval.
					It appears to us, then, clearly, that all the scales heretofore used with correct
						intervals, though incomplete in number, are but different degrees in the development of
						the true scale, evolving itself in obedience to an imperative law. And if science did
						not establish this proposition, and further evidence were needed to convince us, we
						might appeal with confidence to the compositions of the great masters in the art of
						music to confirm our views; for in most of their works you will find all of these modes
						used by means of accidental flats and sharps in different parts of the same piece; and
						when their more elaborate works are closely scanned throughout, it will be discovered
						that they have brought into requisition every semitone that can be produced within the
						compass of the piece. In music, as in many other things, the art preceded the
						science.
					It may be added as curious, at least, if,not as further evidence in support of our
						general proposition, that the methods of transposition, by flats and sharps changes the
						key note in the same order the intervals are obtained by the process we have followed in
						prodcing the scale. Beginning with C as the key note, one sharp changes it to G--the
						fifth; one flat to F--the fourth; two sharps to D--the fifth of the fifth; two flats to
						B--the fourth of the fourth; and so on throughout. And this is the order of change,
						whether it be made by the signature at the beginning of the piece, or by accidentals in
						the course of the composition.

					Having now established the principle, as we believe,  by
						which the arrangement of the musical scale is determined, and pursued it to its ultimate
						results in three several modes, perhaps further illustration is unnecessary. Those who
						wish to test the principle more severely, however, may do so; and they will find their
						labors both profitable and pleasing-- for the modes of illustration are by no means
						exhausted. For example: We may begin at the key note, as we have stated, and take the
						concords, descending, instead of ascending, as we have done, and the result will be the
						same; or, begin, in the first place, at either of the concords above or below the key
						note, and follow the order, either by ascending or descending, and the result will be
						the same; or, begin at either of these points--the key note, or its concords above or
						below--and pursue the process by ascending and descending alternately, and the result
						will be the same; or, begin at the key note, and first find all its concords, then begin
						at the fifth and find all its concords, then at the fourth and find all its concords,
						then at the fifth of the fifth and find all its concords, and the result will be the
						same; or, begin at any point within the limits named, and follow the order prescribed in
						any direction, and the result will be the same; in short, the whole process is nothing
						more than taking the concords of the key note, and the concords of the concords of the
						key note, securing the points which are first found, and stand nearest to
							the key note, and bringing the intervals thus obtained into the same octave
						consecutively. By all of these modes, in the fourth change we shall find ourselves at
						the same point relative to the octave at  which we began;
						and in this manner may repeat the process to infinity without changing the scale.
					In thus reviewing Prof. Tyndall's work we have confined our remarks mainly to Sound in
						its relations to musical tone; first, because it is by far the most interesting
						scientific view of the subject--being in that respect as fixed and unchangeable as the
						laws of numbers and quantities; while in other respects, as in language, its relations
						are arbitrary and conventional; and, second, because we thought in, reference to the
						musical scale, the work contained some errors. These errors, or what we have deemed as
						such, we have endeavored to point out and correct, with whatever skill we could, and we
						hope with a becoming love for scientific truth; we know we have done so, distrusting our
						own ability, and with the highest esteem and most profound respect for the eminent
						character of Prof. Tyndall.
				


				
				
					
						MUSIC AND ITS INSTRUMENTS.
					
					
					Music! What is music? It is generally understood to be a composition of tones arranged
						into melody or harmony and sung, or played on some instrument. And every body says they
						love music; so they do; so do animals--horses, cattle, cats, dogs, mice; even fishes and
						insects, and probably every creature having a nervous system, and birds delight in it;
						but this is merely the sensuous effect of tone. Nothing but the ears are necessary to
						hear it. It requires no more exercise of the intellect, emotions, affections, or soul,
						than it does to taste of something sweet, bitter, sour, or brackish, or to smell a
						flower, the new mown hay, incense, or any other odor. It is but the beginning of music,
						as the multiplication table is the tyros' first beginning to the higher mathematics. But
						there is a music which we write down on paper, along five parallel lines, with dots
						which we call notes, havings heads, some with tails, some heads full, some empty; some
						tails crossed--once, twice, thrice; and cliffs, bars, rests, flats, sharps, and divers
						signs. This kind of music we sing with our voices and play upon instruments, for which
						we must have eyes to see, ears to hear, and hearts to feel. There are many who can sing
						it and play it, but few who understand it, fewer who can arrange it, and fewest of all
						who can cimpose it--for great masters in music are rarer than great painters, great
						poets, great heroes,  or great sages. And there is a
						higher music than this: It is written in the sky, with suns, moons, stars, planets,
						comets, and meteors for its notes, and infinite signs for its language. The storms are
						its choruses, and the spheres mark its time. This music appeals to all the senses, and
						to the profoundest understanding of man. If the composer could take the solar system as
						his musical scale, make the sun his key, and arrange the stars as notes into one grand
						oratorio--now calling them from the impenterable deep, and now dismissing them into
						immeasurable space, resounding, and reverberating through the infinite sky, tuning the
						spheres to eternal harmony-- he would then present to the mind something of the infinite
						grandeur, exhaustless combinations, and heavenly concord which music presents to the
						soul of man. These several grand parts of music, with their various relations, and the
						order in which they move in time and space, constitute God's grand work--the infinite
						and eternal harmony of the univierse, yet there is a higher music still, infinite,
						eternal, silent-- for music is not all made of sound--it is the abstract and harmonious
						relation of numbers and quantities, transcending all our senses. Such music can be
						perceived by the mind alone and known alone to the soul. God alone is the Teacher and
						Master, and he who understands this music, is alone the true musician. A few of the
						masters reach this celestial height to stand alone amidst the Infinite and Eternal.
					Although music, as an art, is the most airy and fleeting of all the arts, yet it is
						founded in the deepest and firmest science; indeed, the science of music pervades all
						other sciences which deal with numbers  and quantities. If
						a musical string equal in length to the three sides of a triangle be tuned to the letter
						C, the points of the angles will represent C, G, G, in tone; a string equal in length to
						the four sides of a square, will, in the same manner, represent C, F, C, C; a string
						equal in length to the five sides of a pentagon, will represent C, E, A, E, E; a string
						equal in length to the six sides of a hexagon will represent C, E flat, G, C, G, G.
						These figures and their multiples represent the same letters and their octaves; and they
						are all the harmonies known in music. A seven-sided figure represents, in this manner,
						nothing but discords in sound, and disproportion to the eye. The same relations in
						numbers represent the vibrations in musical harmony; the division of light into colors
						shows the same proportions; and even chemical affinities follow the same law. And not
						only is the science of music firmly fixed in the nature of things, but it is more
						exacting from its art than any other science in its application. Architecture may be
						disproportioned in its structures, sculpture may be false in the relation of its parts,
						painting may be out of perspective, and poetry may halt in its rhythm, jangle in its
						rhymes, or even blunder in its grammar; yet, notwithstanding these defects, each may
						rise into art; but with a slight error in the arrangement of the musical scale, or a
						slight departure from the relation of its tones in the practice of the art, music
						becomes impossible. Its efforts in such a case would produce neither melody nor harmony,
						but degenerate into the harshest session of tones, and the most horrible discord.
					Although the art of music, as it was known in  ancient
						Greece, contains nothing worthy of the study of modern nations, yet the Greeks gave to
						the word music a wider, fuller, and truer meaning--namely, all that was taught by the
						Muses, all that is beautiful and harmonious, including even dancing--than the the word
						now imports, when applied to the art of music, as we understand it.
					Musical instruments may be conveniently divided into several kinds: 1, percussive
						instruments, as drums, tambourines, cymbals, gongs, castinets, etc. 2, wind instruments,
						which include all that are made of pipes, tubes, or vibrating reeds; and, 3, stringed
						instruments; which latter class may be divided into pulsatile and bowed instruments. We
						do not treat of percussive instruments, as their vibrations are not isochronous, and as
						they can not be properly used except with instruments of sustained tone; and then only
						in certain kinds of music, to mark time, or give spirit and dash to the general
						movement. Of themselves they are not properly musical instruments, as music consists of
						tones arranged according to a scale, and these instruments have neither tone nor scale.
						They simply produce sound--noise. The bell belongs to this class, but should be excepted
						from it in one respect: it has a fixed key note, and may produce at the same time with
						the key note, and frequently does, other tones to which the key note, in vibration,
						bears an aliquoit relation.
					It seems likely that the first musical instrument was a Pandean pipe; for piece of
						tube, with one end stopped and the other open, when the orifice is blown across, will
						produce a tone. But such an instrument, being made, most likely, of some perishable
						material--such as a  reed, or hollow weed, or something of
						the kind--would soon decay, and would not likely be the first relic of a musical
						instrument found. The earliest musical instrument that has yet been discovered, was made
						of a bone, from joint to joint, with a hole in the side, as the embouchure of a flute,
						which, when blown across, would produce a musical tone. Several relics of this kind have
						recently been exhumed in France, which, from their geological position--being co-evil
						with the cave-lion--must have been extremely ancient. A pipe made of a stag's horn, with
						three finger holes in its side, has also been discovered near Poitiers. This must have
						been of more recent date than the bone relics, yet probably belonged to the stone age.
						Such an instrument would produce four notes, which, if the finger-holes were properly
						arranged, would be the same as the Greek tetrachord. A wind-tone would very likely be
						discovered before a tone produced by a string; for nature herself would give a hint of
						it by blowing amidst the branches of trees, or across the holes and crannies of racks;
						indeed, it has been supposed that the first notions of music were derived from the
						sounds of the wind blowing amongst the reeds of the Nile. A string, to produce a tone
						proper, would have to be of some considerable length, of uniform size, weight, and
						elasticity, stretched with uniform tension across some sonorous body, and caused to
						vibrate. Such an arrangement would not likely take place in a chain of natural causes
						and effects; it would require some change by human action, or some artificial means to
						produce it. The story of the tendons of a tortoise drying across its shell, being blown
						upon by the wind, and producing music, is doubtless fabulous. It is told  too many ways, has too many dates, and localities, and is
						too unlikely to carry credence with it. Musical instuments have been made of various
						kinds of material: of earth--in the form of pottery--of stone, glass, the different
						kinds of metals, wood; of bones, horns, tusks, hides--indeed they are sometimes even
						found in the shape of animals. And the strings of musical instruments have been made of
						many different materials, as the skins, entrails, and hair of animals, and of wire,
						silk, flax, etc.
					The Chinese have a very ancient instrument called the King, the
						invention of which they attribute to their Orpheus whom they name Kouci. He ante-dates the Grecian Orpheus more than two thousand years, and is
						supposed to have possessed the same marvelous powers of moving the trees and charming
						wild beasts. The tones of this instrument are produced by flat pieces of a peculiar,
						sonorous stone, generally made into a triangular shape, but often in the form of birds,
						and also into various fantastic shapes, which are strung on a cord so as to be
						conveniently struck by a hammer. There are different classes of the king--as the
						soung-king, pien-king--not differing essentially in structure, but having different
						ranges of musical compass. The Chinese have also a very ancient wind instrument called
						the hiuen, made of baked clay, of a conical shape, having five
						finger-holes; and another one called the cheng, made of a bundle of
						tubes, or pipes set in a piece of pottery shaped like a bowl-- taking the place of a
						wind-chest in the organ--into which they blew their breath. It is believed that the
						Chinese had no very ancient stringed instruments; but in modern times they use an
						instrument resembling  the Spanish guitar, and a kind of
						narrow fiddle, resembling a single tube with strings stretched upon it; but the tone is
						very harsh. The Chinese musical scale is the same as the European scale would be with
						the F and B left out of the octave, and the same as the ancient Scottish scale; and, it
						may be remarked, the same as the scale is always found in a ruder condition of the art
						of music. The Chinese, however, sometimes use a wild, unsettled tone between the E and
						G, and between the A and C, but they do not always correspond with one F and B.
					The first musical instruments of Persia, or at least as far as any relics have yet been
						found, seem to have been of the harp kind; but we know not much of them before the
						Christian era. Their scale, it is said, divided the octave into seventeen equal
						intervals; if so, no instrument could be made, adapted to it, which would produce either
						melody or harmony. Such a scale does not contain a single concord within the octave.
						There is probably some error in our knowledge upon this subject, for the natural
						divisions of the tones, how ever produced, will arrange themselves in the main intervals
						according to the present European scale.
					The most ancient known musical instrument of the the Hindoos--the vina--is a string instrument, and quite curious. It consists of a pipe, closed
						at each end, about three feet long, and as many inches in diameter, upon one side of
						which, near each end, is fixed a gourd by its neck; to serve as a sounding box; on the
						other side of the tube, four strings are stretched, beneath which, between the bridge
						and the nut, movable frets are inserted, by which the performer can adjust his scale to
						any arrangement he chooses. The  Hindoos had other kinds
						of stringed instruments, and claim to have invented the bow; but there is nothing on
						their monuments, or amongst their relics, or in any authentic history, which will fairly
						sustain their claim. If they, in ancient times, used the violin and bow, they must have
						been in a very rude state.
					The ancient musical instruments of Egypt, from their sculpture and drawings, are much
						better known to us than those of any other nation. The Egyptians possessed the harp and
						the nofre--an instrument resembling a guitar--perhaps earlier than any
						other people. They also had instruments in the shape of pipes and flutes, though limited
						in compass. But the Egyptians were evidently farther advanced in the science and art of
						music than any of the Eastern nations. 
					The Assyrians used both wind and stringed instruments. They had the harp, the lyre, and
						the dulcimer; and a kind of instrument held horizontally upon the lap, or before the
						player, and played upon by a long plectrum, not unlike a bow, but without the hair, with
						a hook on the end, by which the string was both bowed and twanged. This is thought to be
						the origin or first hint of the violin bow. They also used the trumpet with effect, and
						had other smaller wind instruments. 
					The Arabs possessed a great number of musical instruments, some of which were
						introduced into Spain by the Saracens and Moors; and thence found their way into Europe.
						The Arabian kuitra became in English gittern or cittern, and, through Spain, finally the guitar; the e-loud was softened, in English, into lute, and the rebab became the rebec, which ultimately  became a sort of fiddle, having at first but two strings,
						and afterward three, and was played on by a bow. This fiddle had no neck, and the bow
						resembled a boy's bow to shoot arrows with, far more than it did the present violin bow.
						The strings were fingered by the hand held above them, and the bow used under the arm of
						the hand which fingered the strings. It was also held and played in other positions,
						much as the performer preferred. By whom, or when, or where the bow was invented can not
						be ascertained. The Arabian bow used on the rebab was the first one
						authentically known in its present form and mode of use. The Arabs admit, however, that
						it was not original with them, but was obtained from the Persians. It was probably the
							rebab and its bow, which Al-faribi, the Arabian musician, used in
						playing at Bagdad, before the Caliph and his court, as the story goes, and by which he
						first set his audience a-laughing immoderately, in spite of the official presence; then,
						by changing the mode, made them weep; next, by changing again, he got them so angry that
						they were about to fight promiscuously, to prevent which he changed his mode a third
						time, and played them to sleep, and during their nap made good his escape. The same
						story is also told, stating that it was a lute which he used instead of the rebab, which is doubtless as authentic in favor of one instrument as the other.
						But the "jolly rebec," once used in England, and spoken of somewhere by Milton, was
						undoubtedly the successor of the Arabian rebab.
					The "harp and organ" are mentioned in Gen. iv.: 21; but what the character of the
						instruments was then is not now known; but it is well known that the  Hebrews possessed the harp and the lyre--which is near akin
						to it--the dulcimer, the trumpet, and pipes of various kinds; but upon what scale they
						were constructed is not known. Much is said in the scriptures about their musical
						instruments, and their music; their songs and their chaunts, but as far as we can now
						ascertain, music as a science or an art was not well understood by the ancient
						Hebrews.
					Greece derived her musical instruments and her music, as she did much of her learning
						and art, from Egypt, as Egypt had before derived much of her knowledge from the Eastern
						nations. Greece had the harp, the lyre, trumpets, horns, and pipes, constructed in
						various ways, but their scale is unknown to us. The meaning of the word music in Greece,
						as we have shown, was not confined merely to the art as we now understand it, hence much
						confusion has arisen as to what Grecian music was. There was no intelligible method of
						writing music before the time of Guido in the eleventh century.
					The Romans copied their musical instruments--as they did almost everything else they
						had in the way of art--from the Greeks; or, rather, more directly from the Eutruscans,
						who derived them from the Greeks. The Eutruscans excelled all the people of Italy in
						manufacturing musical instruments, and in many other things indeed. They were a very
						ingenious people. They made flutes of ivory and boxwood, and and of bronze and silver,
						some of which were highly ornamented. They also made a long curved horn, or trumpet,
						almost completing a circle, which, by a bar across it near the ends, was hung upon the
						shoulder, thus bringing the mouthpiece  conveniently in
						front, and the bell part behind and above the head; but it had no scale except its
						natural harmonics. Their straight horns were very long and slim. It is plain, from many
						concurring accounts, that the musical instruments of Greece and Rome came originally
						from the Eastern nations, and through Greece and Rome into modern Europe.
					Amongst the North American Indians, the Aztecs of Mexico, the tribes of South America,
						and in the West Indies, ancient rude musical instruments have been found, resembling
						those already described, and first discovered on the other hemisphere. They are made of
						bones, horns, pottery; and, the more modern ones, of joints of reed, and tubes made by
						splitting smooth straight limbs of young trees, and hollowing out the wood, then binding
						the halves together with bark, and perforating them with holes; but without any system
						or scale. Amongst these races, we believe, no stringed instrument was ever found.
					During the first ten centuries of the Christian era there was no improvement, either in
						music or musical instruments; indeed, during that dreary period the arts and sciences
						came very nearly being lost to the western nations and to the human race, except as they
						might have been revived again from the east, or discovered anew. Early in the eleventh
						century Guido, as we have remarked, improved, or rather invented, the method of writing
						music, by adopting the staff, and giving monosyllabic names to the notes; but there was
						no improvement in musical instruments. The history of music and musical instruments up
						to this time may be a curious and entertaining study, but for the purpose of
						instructions upon these subjects,  it is wholly a useless
						one. It only shows the longings and gropings of the human race, for some method of
						expressing something in the soul that can find utterance in no other way than in music.
						Neither music nor musical instruments, in any fair scientific or artistic sense, had any
						existence before the fourteenth century. No instrument is known, made before that date,
						which could be used in concert in a modern orchestra. It is not yet five hundred years
						since the musical scale was understood and adopted. Some of the intervals, of course,
						were known to the earliest and most ignorant nations, for the rudest trumpet, or the
						clumsiest string, might, by the natural divisions of their tones, teach them the octave,
						fifth, fourth, and possibly the major third; but the intervals between these, and the
						consecutive scale, and the relation to the key note, were not known. The Greeks
						understood the abstract laws of harmony, but that the intervals in the diatonic and
						chromatic scales were governed by these laws was not generally known, nor is it fully
						received to the present day. Some yet regard the intervals in the musical scale as an
						arbitrary arrangement which may be changed at pleasure--a theory as absurd as to say
						that you may adopt an arbitrary system of mathematics. Of course before the scale was
						settled there could be no scientific instrument made, nor artistic music written. It was
						all empyrical.
					The trumpet is the simplest of wind instruments, as a monochord is the simplest of
						stringed instruments; and their harmonic scales are the same. The invention of the
						trumpet has been attributed to the Syrians and to the Egyptians, but there is no certain
						evidence  in support of the claims of either. The Hebrews
						derived it from the Egyptians. The trumpet is emphatically a war instrument, to sound to
						the charge, or other evolutions of an army. It fell into disuse by the Greeks after the
						Trojan war, then became a favorite with the Romans, and in some shape has been in use
						ever since. The scale of the trumpet, ascending, assuming C as its key note, is C, C, G,
						C, E, G; and it is possible to obtain the B and C above the last G, but quite
						impracticable--all of which are produced without keys or valves. It is not possible to
						obtain the F or A on the trumpet, in any part of its compass. By means of keys or valves
						which will produce the lower D, E, and F, it will give the diatonic scale; add to these
						keys, or valves, one for C sharp, and one for E flat, and the trumpet will produce the
						entire chromatic scale. This is the principle upon which all the varieties of modern
						trumpets and horns are constructed, including all the sets of our magnificent brass and
						silver instruments. As simple as this seems it was never discovered until about the year
						1835. We believe the invention is due to Sax, of Paris. Each position--that is, of C, C
						sharp, D, E flat, and F--will produce its letter, its octave, fifth, and third,
						throughout the compass of the instrument, which, when all are brought together
						consecutively, make the chromatic scale.
					Wind instruments of music are so numerous, and of so many varieties, from the tiny
						whistle to the ophicleide, that it is impracticable to notice them seperately. The
						principal wind instruments, except the simple trumpet, trombone, keyed-bugle, and French
						horn, are of modern invention, as stated, and greatly 
						superior in the scale to any of the ancient trumpets or horns. Arranged in sets, they
						include the entire musical compass, except the highest octave, which can be supplied by
						the pipe or piccolo. For field music, they can not be rivaled.
					The organ is the grandest musical instrument in the world. It is the sum of all wind
						instruments placed under the hands, and within the power of a single performer. In its
						simplest elements, as a whistle, or pipe, it is the oldest instrument; but when, by
						whom, or where it was invented, in its present combined powers, can not be ascertained.
						Century after century it can be traced in some form or other. It did not spring into
						existence Minerva-like, from the brain of any one inventor--it is the work of many
						brains and many hands. The first boy that made the first whistle, commenced an organ;
						the last man that made the last organ, did not complete the instrument. Its combinations
						are as endless as science, and its powers unlimited, except by natural laws. But we do
						not propose to write the history of the organ--that may be studied by any one; nor
						explain its construction--that belongs to the organ-builder; but rather to examine
						certain alleged defects which are supposed to exist in the science of its scale, and in
						its adaptability to art. The chromatic scale of equal temperament, as every musician
						knows, is not perfect on the organ, in all its intervals, as it is not on any other
						instrument having fixed tones; but the imperfection is much less than it is supposed to
						be by those who have never thorougAy investigated the subject, and carefully examined
						the particular question. The following table will show the variations of the chromatic
						scale of equal temperament  from the true scale, as it
						exists in abstract science:





					

						
							Untempered Scale.
							Tempered Scale.
						
						
							C
							480
							C
							480
						
						
							C-sharp
							506.250
							C-sharp
							508.542
						
						
							D-flat
							505.678
							D-flat
							508.542
						
						
							D
							540
							D
							538.781
						
						
							D-sharp
							562.500
							D-sharp
							570.819
						
						
							E-flat
							568.888
							E-flat
							570.819
						
						
							E
							600
							E
							604.761
						
						
							E-sharp
							632.812
							E-sharp
							640.724
						
						
							F-flat
							599.321
							F-flat
							604.761
						
						
							F
							640
							F
							640.724
						
						
							F-sharp
							675
							F-sharp
							678.882
						
						
							G-flat
							674.237
							G-flat
							678.882
						
						
							G
							720
							G
							719.186
						
						
							G-sharp
							750
							G-sharp
							761.951
						
						
							A-flat
							758.518
							A-flat
							761.951
						
						
							A
							800
							A
							807.270
						
						
							A-sharp
							843.750
							A-sharp
							855.263
						
						
							B-flat
							853.333
							B-flat
							855.263
						
						
							B
							900
							B
							906.120
						
						
							C
							960
							C
							960
						
					

					By this table it will be seen that the imperfection of the chromatic scale of equal
						temperament, no where is equal to one vibration in one hundred--a much less per cent of
						variation from the exactness of abstract science than will be found, upon the
						application of the meter, in architecture, sculpture, or painting. Indeed, no art ever
						fulfills the exactions of its science--it is a practicable impossibility. The concords
						of the octaves are perfect; the fifths stand, perfect 720, tempered 719.186; the
						fourths, perfect 640, tempered 640.724; the major thirds, perfect 600, tempered 604.761,
						which last shows the greatest imperfection in the tempered scale. Any concord, and its
						reflex concord, will fill the octave; and, if either one of them, in the tempered scale,
						is too flat, the other will be too sharp, exactly in the same proportion; and if either
						is too sharp, the ) other will be too flat, in the same
						proportion, of course. But the imperfections of the instrument lie oftener in defective
						tuning than they do in the instrinsic imperfections of the tempered scale. The
						variations, practically, in architecture, sculpture, or painting, from the abstract
						sciences upon which they rest, do not offend the eye, unless they are unnecessarily
						glaring; nor will the tempered scale in music offend the ear, when the temperament and
						the tuning are perfect. There is no ear so nice, and no sense so acute as to be able to
						detect the difference between 600 and 604 musical vibrations in a second of time--a
						difference in the ratio of 1 to 151.
					Unequal temperament of the scale is an attempt to throw all the imperfections into the
						remoter keys, which are seldom used, and thereby, as is supposed, to make the nearer
						keys, which are oftener used, more perfect; but nothing can be more fallacious, as is
						easily demonstrated. Unequal temperament, when the key note is changed the first time
						from the C, either by a flat or a sharp, is an advantage; but it will be found that when
						the key note is changed the second time, by two flats or two sharps, the advantage
						gained in the first change will return a disadvantage, just doubled, in the second
						change. For example, change the key note from C to D, by sharping F and C, and you will
						find the D represents 540 vibrations, and the E, next above it, represents 600, when, in
						fact, E, to be the true interval from D as a key note, should represent 608 vibrations.
						Now, in the scale of equal temperament, the E represents 604, whatever may be the key
						note. The same ratio will take place  in any part of the
						scale in transposing the key note, either by flats or sharps, whenever it is changed the
						second time from any key in which the instrument is tuned to the true scale. Besides,
						grand and elaborate compositions in music use each of the tones in the chromatic octave
						as a key note in the course of the piece, and hence require one key to be as perfect as
						another.
					It is sometimes thought, from the necessity of temperament, for the purpose of
						obtaining a transposition scale, that the musical scale itself is imperfect. The student
						might as well suppose that the science of mathematics is imperfect, because he can not
						solve his problem. The musical scale, in abstract science, is as perfect as mathematics
						itself. Any instrument can be tuned perfectly to one key note in the octave, but the
						difficulty lies in getting twelve key notes in the octave, when there is really but one,
						and having each of their keys perfect. This is the problem which neither the musician
						nor the mathematician can solve, simply because it is insoluble; therefore, temperament
						makes a slight sacrifice of the science, to make the instrument more practicable in the
						art. Various methods, for hundreds of years, have been tried to avoid the necessity of
						temperament, but soon abandoned in succession. A transposition of the key on an
						instrument with fixed tones, without temperament, is an impossibility. 
					As the organ, in some rude way, if only a single pipe, is doubtless the oldest musical
						instrument in the world, so the harp, if only a single string, is the oldest stringed
						instrument; but it is impossible now to ascertain when, or by what people, it was
						invented. It is not  probable that it was invented by any
						nation solely, or at any given time, but most likely by many nations, and at various
						times, and perhaps contemporaneously, and improved through centuries; at least it is
						certain that the modern harp is a far more perfect instrument than its ancient
						prototype. It is perhaps the most ancient of all instruments having a regular scale of
						tones. The first person who stretched a cord tightly across something that sustained its
						vibrations, had the beginning of a harp, and if he happened to strike the string
						suddenly he had commenced playing upon the harp. The story of Apollo and the
						tortoise-shell does good service in accounting for the origin of the harp, but the song
						of Tom Moore, attributing its origin to the graceful form of a siren, or sea-maiden,
						whose loose hair, falling over her white arms, was changed to chords, to which her voice
						gave tones, is amongst the most beautiful legends of the harp, and perhaps quite as
						authentic as most of the stories of its origin. The harp, in a highly perfected
						condition, can be traced to Thebes in Egypt, more than two thousand years before the
						Christian era, more than nine hundred years before David wrote his psalms and played
						them, and about one thousand years before Solomon sang his celebrated love-song. Lord
						Elgin obtained a harp from a tomb in Athens, which must have rested in silence nearly
						three thousand years. When found it was in many pieces, but they could be put together
						so as to plainly show its shape, and the method by which the strings were tightened. It
						was, however, a very clumsy instrument. Notwithstanding we hear so much of the Grecian
						harp, the instrument does not appear to have  been as well
						known to the Greeks as it was to the Egyptians, who brought it to a higher degree of
						perfection than it attained during the Grecian era. The Hebrews were well acquainted
						with the harp, and very fond of its music, but the lyre, so well known to the
						Hebrews--about which a similar tortoise-shell story is told, only in this instance the
						god who discovered it was Mercury instead of Apollo--was often confounded with the harp;
						and, indeed, they resembled each other so much that the mistake is not surprising. The
						lyre also figured prominently in Grecian music, during the time of Pindar, Sappho, and
						Anacreon. The harp was well known to the Romans, but not so much used nor so highly
						prized by them as it was by the Egyptians, Hebrews, and Greeks.
					The Northern nations also claim the invention of the harp, but it was not found amongst
						them in any fair degree of perfection before the fifth century of our era. Some writers
						concede this claim to the North, but we find no convincing evidence in its support--
						nothing, indeed, except the traditions amongst the Northmen themselves--while the claim
						for the Egyptian harp is well established, both historically and by drawings
						representing it, found upon the spot. The Theban harp was crescent-shaped, and highly
						ornamented, without the supporting pillar which gives it the general form of a triangle.
						It varied in the number of its strings from four to twenty-one, but according to what
						scale they were tuned is not known. But no race of people ever loved the harp as
						devotedly as the rude nations of the North. The history and laws of the ancient Britons,
						Picts, Scotts, Irish, Welsh,  Saxons, and Danes, show
						their affection for their favorite instrument. A harp, by the laws of Wales, could not
						be seized for debt, because, without it a gentleman was degraded to the condition of a
						slave. Slaves were forbidden by law to own harps, or to be taught to play upon them.
						None were allowed to have them except the king's musicians, and those who ranked as
						gentlemen; and whoever could play upon the harp was declared to be a gentlerpan by law;
						and such were received into the highest circles of society, treated with distinguished
						respect, secured by law against all penalties, and their persons held inviolable. The
						nations of the South, even in the days of chivalry and the Troubadours, were not as
						devoted to the harp as the Welsh and Irish. The Irish ever loved the harp, as the songs
						of Tom Moore, gathered from the legends and ballads of the nation, most affectionately
						testify. There is a harp in the museum of Trinity college, Dublin, which is said to have
						been carried to Rome by Donagh, or McDonagh, with the crown of his father, who had been
						deposed in 1004, and both laid, with other regalia of the Irish king, at the feet of the
						pope, in full submission of Ireland to the church of Rome.
					The ancient harp was a very imperfect instrument. At present, such an intrument could
						not take rank either in the science or the art of music. During the eighteenth century
						it was greatly improved by the Germans. They added bass strings to its compass, and
						obtained upon it a partial transposition scale. It began to be introduced into choirs
						and concerts, but was seldom admitted to the orchestra. About the first decade of the
						present century, Sebastian Erard, of  Paris, by the
						addition of pedals and the double action, placed the harp at once in the first rank of
						musical instruments.
					It is now the most perfect in its chromatic scale of all that class of instruments
						having fixed tones. By means of the double action, each string can be made to produce
						its natural tone, its flat, and its sharp. On other instruments of fixed tone the flat
						of the tone above, and the sharp of the tone below, are the same. The same key or fret
						is used to produce both; this renders both slightly imperfect. A tone is flatted only
						when the interval next above it is a semitone; a tone is sharped only when the interval
						next below it is a semitone. The true flat of a tone is at a point below it in pitch,
						which leaves the interval of a natural semitone between the flat so made and the tone
						below it; the true sharp of a tone is at a point above it in pitch, which leaves the
						interval of a natural semitone between the sharp so made and the tone above it. Now, as
						the interval of a natural semitone is greater than one-half of a natural whole tone, it
						is plain that the flat of a tone above it, and the sharp of the tone below it, can not
						be exactly the same. On a harp, the true flat and the true sharp may be exactly
						obtained, which can not be done on the organ or piano, because the same key is used to
						produce both. The harp, in all the keys, corrects these differences, which on the piano
						or organ, and other instruments of fixed tone, are evenly distributed by temperament
						throughout the compass of the instrument, so as to reduce them to their minimum degree
						of imperfection. In tuning the harp properly the intervals of the whole tones are
						tempered--that is, equalized--and the intervals of the 
						semitones retained as in the true scale. The difference between the interval of the
						natural and tempered semitone, mathematically stated, is as 8 to 9; the mathematical
						difference between the natural and tempered interval of the whole tones which occur
						between the first and second, fourth and fifth, and sixth and seventh--counting from any
						key-note you choose-- is as 270 to 269; such differences in the intervals between the
						second and third, and fifth and sixth, counting as above, are 150 to 151; and this
						represents precisely the amount of imperfection in the chromatic tempered scale on all
						instruments; but this imperfection, as we have stated, is more apparent to the mind in
						science than to the ear in sense; indeed, it is demonstrated in science, while, if the
						instrument is perfect and the tuning by equal temperament accurate, it becomes
						impalpable to sense.
					Yet the harp, notwithstading all its mechanical improvements, the perfection of its
						chromatic scale, and the sweetness of its tone, can never lead in the orchestra, or
						concert; it lacks both power of tone and facility of execution, but in the drawing-room,
						or family circle, it is the queen of instruments, and to the poor wandering minstrel his
						sweetest solace.
					The harpsichord, which has now fallen into disuse, was the transition step between the
						harp and the piano-forte, or piano, as it is now generally called. Indeed the piano is
						merely an improvement on the harpsichord. It was invented about a century and a half ago
						by I. C. Shroder, a German, but has been greatly improved since. The harpsichord was
						merely a harp laid down in a box--the strings struck by a plectrum; the piano is the
						same--the strings struck  by a hammer, instead of being
						touched by the fingers. It may be constructed to express the entire range of musical
						sounds, from the highest to the lowest, and generally runs six or seven octaves. It is
						the sum of all stringed pulsatile instruments, and contains from 128 to 284 strings
						according to its range and mode of stringing. About one octave of the lower tones are
						produced by single strings, some three or more octaves in the middle are strung double,
						and sometimes two or three octaves of the upper notes are triply strung. Practical sense
						has settled the length, weight, and material of the strings. They are now generally made
						of steel wire; some two octaves of the lower ones are wrapped with a smaller wire to
						give them weight, and yet preserve their elasticity. The lowest tones of a piano,
						beginning with A, is produced by fifty vibrations per second, the highest one-- the C
						above the seventh octave--by 7,680 per second. This calculation is made upon the basis
						of thirty vibrations per second for the lowest audible C, which has generally been
						regarded as the English standard. Prof. Tyndall, however, places it at thirty-three. The
						question, being only relative; is an immaterial one; yet a standard ought to be
						established. There is already some variation between the German, French, English, and
						American standards. Such confusion is calculated to embarass the student and should be
						avoided. The only standard for a musical pitch is the law of gravitation--as remote from
						the subject as it may seem at first view. The pitch can not be carried around the world,
						without variation, by a tuning-fork, pitch-pipe, or any other instrument. It must be
						taken from a given number of vibrations in a  given time,
						these must be taken from a pendulum, and the vibrations of a pendulum are regulated by
						the power of gravitation. A siren is an instrument which registers musical vibrations,
						amd a stop-cock may be so attached to a pipe as to accomplish the same purpose; but a
						simpler method still is to hold a piece of card board to a ratchet-wheel, regulated to a
						known velocity in its revolutions. The card board, when the velocity is sufficiently
						rapid, will give out a tone, and, whatever it may be, the calculation is very easy from
						any known basis. It would be well if instruments all over the world could be made to the
						same pitch, as, by the commerce of nations, they are constantly being interchanged.
					The scale of the piano labors under the same imperfections of temperament as that of
						the organ; indeed, where we desire twelve key notes in the octave, temperament becomes
						inevitable.
					The piano is capable of expressing the most brilliant melodies with the richest
						combinations of harmony. Other instruments may exceed it for particular purposes, or
						within certain limits, but as a whole it has no rival. It is the best guide for training
						the musician, and the instrument generally used in composing. On the piano one performer
						commands the compass of an orchestra--the instrument is, indeed, a stringed orchestra.
						As a stringed instrument, subservient to art, it stands pre-eminent; and, practically,
						its solidity, permanence, power of remaining in tune, and freedom from injury by the
						accidents and vicissitudes of the school, concert, and family, will probably keep it in
						the lead. Its use has become so general  that it may be
						regarded as one of the popular educators and social reformers of the time.
					Yet with all their advantages, pulsatile stringed instruments labor under some
						disadvantages. Their notes are loudest as soon as they are struck. Each one passes out
						of the power of the performer the instant it is touched. It can not afterwards be
						swelled, diminished, or in any way modified by the player, except to suddenly stop its
						sound; if not so stopped it gradually dies away. On a given note it is impossible to
						execute a crescendo, and impossible to avoid a diminuendo. These graces may be executed,
						of course, in passages, but not upon a single note. If musical notes on this class of
						musical instruments could be seen as well as heard, they would appear in the shape of
						cones, assailing the ear base foremost, and disappearing at their vertices, unless cut
						off.
					Another disadvantage attends all musical instrumunts of fixed tones. The notes are set
						in the scale like mosaic. They have no tone-tints. No degree or shade of tone can be
						expressed between the semi-tones. The pitch comes hard and square to the point of
						tuning, without the least fexibility. No expression can be given to the tone after it
						has been touched. All the power the player has over it, except to stop it, lies in the
						original impulse; while, upon bowed instruments, the player has full command over the
						tone-- to swell, diminish, modify, or change it as he chooses, from its first sound
						until it ceases.
					Of all the musical instruments ever invented by man, those of the viol class must be
						placed at the head, on account of their complete adaptation to the chromatic scale, as
						well as for their powerful antd soft,  tender and sweet,
						touching and expressive tones under the bow, which is the wand of the musician. And the
						violin is the genius of the family. It is the most interesting musical instrument known.
						It at once fulfills the fullest exactions of science, and the completest adaptation to
						art. The philosopher approves it, the artist adores it, the "fiddler" ignorantly
						worships it. It is the hope of the amateur--because he knows not its capacities--and the
						despair of the master--because he does. In its finest qualities it is the most exclusive
						of instruments, in its rudest powers the most widely popular; capable of producing the
						most exquisite tones, or the most torturing noises--the prince and plebian of
						instruments. This beautiful and brilliant wonder has retained its present shape, with
						very slight changes in its size and proportions, during about two hundred years; its
						strings have remained the same for at least three hundred years, and its mode of tuning
						unchanged for more than two hundred years. The music of the violin is the most
						sprightly, brilliant, and genial, as well as the saddest, most touching and mournful.
						There is no sentiment in the human breast that it can not awaken. It finds places in the
						heart which nothing else can touch, and lifts the soul higher above material things than
						the most eloquent language. It carries us beyond the palpable into the regions of the
						ideal, and above the senses into the spiritual. It is the instrument of the mind and
						soul; simple, profound, sublime. All the various and complicated powers are expresssed
						by the plainest and most direct means, without the guide or obstruction of any
						mechanical perplexities. What condemned it to obscurity, in its ruder condition,  during a thousand years--namely, its want of fixed
						tones--proved ultimately to be its most transcendent excellence. Its scale--or rather
						want of a scale, for it has none except the four notes of its strings; its scale being
						in the soul of the performer--is absolutely perfect, and its facility for execution
						limited only by the skill of the artist.
					The lowest letter of the violin, G, is produced by 360 vibrations per second; from this
						point ascending its scale, theoretically, is unlimited; its practical compass however is
						about four octaves, up to G, produced by 5,760 vibrations per second; yet some of its
						most eminent masters may occasionally snatch a tone above this--even up to E--produced
						by 9,600 vibrations per second. The instrument in its whole practical range is capable
						of expressing of 9,240 gradations of tone. If we were to calculate by the theory of
						fluxions we should have no steps or degrees of tone upon it whatever, but an inclined
						plane of sound. Inasmuch, however, as the musical scale is a series of irregular
						intervals, it is impossible to represent it in any other mode than by steps, or degrees;
						and a single vibration is the lowest unit by which we can make it intelligible. And let
						it not be supposed that this system is merely a fanciful array of figures; it is as
						demonstrable as the simplest problem in Euclid. Nor let it be imagined that it is merely
						theoretical, for it is within the range of actual practice, but, in its fullest extent,
						most rare and difficult of attainment. In theory the scale of the instrument ascends
						until it is lost in the infinite; and thus we can follow it through the material into
						the mental, until it passes into the ideal; just as we can trace the soul through the
						senses into  the spiritual, until it rises to the infinite
						and eternal. And all these beauties are perceived by the mind and felt by the soul of
						the true artist--as plainly as he can see the rays of the sun, or feel their
						warmth--inviting him on from excellence to excellence, stil showing him a higher
						excellence, with a fascination utterly incomprehensible to those who have never entered
						into this unbounded field and heavenly arcanum of art. There is a music for the mind as
						well as for the ear. He who can find nothing but sound in music, is not thoroughly
						instructed in the science nor the art. Silent music is no solicism. The sound is not the
						music any more then the word is the thought--they are but the signs--and as we can
						understand thoughts without speaking, so we can understand music without hearing. Music
						can be seen with far greater accuracy than it can be heard. Many a musician enjoys a
						sight of the score almost as much as hearing its performance, the same as we can
						mentally read without expressing the words. Poor Beethoven composed, performed, and
						enjoyed music for years after he was as deaf as the insensate clod. Besides the world we
						all live in, the musician has a world of his own creation. It is this fact which makes
						great composers and artists so different from other men in the ordinary affairs of life.
						Mozart, Beethoven, Chopin, were all their lives mere children in the world's ways.
						Paginini had not the capacity to manage his own business; and although Ole Bull, in his
						physical, mental, and moral development, was one of the finest specimens of man that
						ever lived--brave, generous, noble, enduring--yet his heart and his soul were as
						delicate and tender as if he were a child. We could  see
						his fine presence, his genial countenance, and his graceful manners, but that was
						all--all could not follow him into his world. He sometimes lifted us
						up and showed it to us for an instant, but we soon sank back into the hard reality; yet
						such moments, and such glimpses, make us better, by elevating the soul and showing it
						something above what we find in this lower world.
					The violin has a long history. It can be traced from an early period, through the
						middle ages to the present time; but it never had an inventor. It is not the product of
						one man, but the result of the skill and labor, mistakes and experiments, of many
						generations of men. Stradiuarius is sometimes accredited with its invention, but upon no
						different or better evidence than that which would give it to the Brothers Amati, or,
						indeed, to many others. Stradiuarius had something to do with settling the shape of the
						violin, which has remained the same ever since. If races of men, when they have no
						historic origin, may claim their descent from the gods, it would be quite excusable to
						attribute the invention of the violin to some spirit or angel. It required six centuries
						to bring the violin to its present perfection as an instrument, and two more centuries
						to ascertain the correct practice upon it, and will require many more centuries to
						exhaust its capacity--nay, its capacity is infinite, and therefore never can be
						exhausted.
					Each violin, though all may be made alike, and out of the same kind of material, as
						near as it is possible to be done by human skill, has its peculiar individuality, as
						distinct from others as the faces and voices of our friends are distinct from one
						another. They  have their temperaments, tones of voice,
						capacities, and particular genius, as well as human beings. The handling, position of
						the sound post, its tightness or easiness, weight and height of the bridge, mode of
						stringing, and treatment under the bow, must all be managed with reference to each
						instrument, just as a careful physician would study the temperament, condition, and
						ailment of each patient. There is no successful mode of treating them as a class, any
						more than there is for treating all persons for all diseases in the same manner. And as
						a genius may be born in any rank of society, so occasionally a violin from amongst the
						ordinary cheap kind will turn out to be remarkably superior. By cheap violins, of course
						we do not mean "shingles;" and, of course, well-made violins, out of good material, will
						average much higher than ordinary cheaper ones--as well-learned, well-bred,
						well-educated, and well-fed people will be superior to those who have not the means of
						health and improvement; nevertheless, the unfathomable secret of superiority lies hidden
						in the violin, as it does in the human being.
					But, with all the superiority, completeness, and perfection of the violin, and all the
						love we bear it, we are constrained to say, and we feel as if it were a kind of
						sacrilege to utter the thought, that there is an imperfection in the instrument in the
						want of complete uniformity between the quality of the tones produced
						on the G, or wrapped string, and those produced on the other strings which are
						unwrapped. It is impossible to obtain the same quality of tone from a wrapped and an
						unwrapped string, or from any two different causes; and no attainable skill in the
						performer can disguise  the difference. It is not that the
						tones on either class of strings are defective--they are the best that can be produced
						on any mechanical instrument--but that they are not completely uniform in their quality.
						A want of uniformity in the quality of tone is a defect on any instrument, and it must
						be admitted that it runs throughout the viol family.
					Another imperfection of the violin: The E string is too small for its length, and
						requires undue tension to give it the proper pitch. The tones made on this string are
						characterized rather by a keenness and shrillness than a roundness and fullness. In
						quality they are inferior to those made on the other unwrapped strings. The gradation
						from one string to another is not perfect. The tone of A, made on the D string, is
						different in quality from the same tone on the A string; so the tone of E, made on the A
						string, is different in quality from the tone of the E string. All the strings are too
						long and too light for their lower tones, and too short and too heavy for their upper
						tones, to be in due proportion of length, weight, and tension to the tone. There is a
						certain proportion in the length, weight, and tension of the string to obtain the best
						quality of tone, which can not be materially departed from without injury to the effect.
						Indeed, the method of stringing viols is a compromise between these conflicting
						difficulties.
					As we have stated, the organ is the sum of wind instrument, and the piano the sum of
						pulsatile stringed instruments. If a system of viols, from the double-bass to the kit,
						inclusive, could be combined into a single instrument, and placed under the power and
						command of a single performer, we should have the  sum of
						bowed stringed instruments, and the most perfect inanimate instrument of music that
						could be fairly conceived in our present state of knowledge; but it would require an
						Argus and a Briarius combined for a performer. Such an instrument is "a consummation
						devoutly to be wished," rather than hoped for or expected. 
					But the most complete musical instrument known to man is the human throat. It was
						constructed by a Maker whose works are all perfect. The purest and sweetest tone ever
						heard by human ears is the voice of woman. The vital instrument is, and must forever be,
						more perfect than any thing contrived by human ingenuity. The difference is as that
						between the automaton and the living man. But it is not wholly in the superiority of the
						tones of the human voice over the tones of any other instrument in which its excellence
						consists; it lies in its complete adaptability to the musical scale in every key. Let a
						voice sing a strain in the key of C, then give it the pitch of F as a key-note, and it
						will flat the B perfectly, and so throughout all the changes by the flats; then give it
						the pitch of G as a key-note, and it will restore the B to its natural tone and sharp
						the F, and so throughout all the changes by sharps. Whatever pitch may be given to the
						human voice as a key-note, it instantly adjusts itself to all the intervals in that
						relation; and its modulations in the chromatic scale are perfect. The harmony of trained
						voices is more perfect than any that can be produced by instruments, and the melody of a
						single voice adjusts itself precisely to the true intervals. It needs no temperament to
						correct its tones when the key is changed. All keys are alike natural to the human  voice, whatever the pitch may be. How the human throat can
						so delicately express all of these changes must forever remain an anatomical and a
						psychological wonder. Dr. Mandl, in his elaborate work on the Larynx,
						has only pushed the mystery a little farther from us--he has not solved it. And besides
						all of these advantages in favor of the human voice, the instrument itself is sentient.
						Unlike inanimate instruments, it is coupled with a brain which understands the thought,
						and with a soul which feels the sentiment it expresses, and is in full sympathy with all
						that is good and grand, beautiful and true, pure and holy.

				
				
				
					
						A REVIEW OF A REVIEW.
					
					

					The publishers of "The Musical Scale " have forwarded to me a review of that work, with
						a desire that it may be answered. Such of the propositions contained in the review as
						are capable of proof or disproof by demonstration, and with which I do not agree, I will
						answer; but questions of composition, or matters of taste, whether I agree with the
						writer of the review or not, I shall not notice, because none such are in the
						controversy.
					I will state the propositions of the reviewer in his own words ; the first is as
						follows:
					
						"When A, the sixth of C, and a third to F, is
									sounded with F and C, it is a sixth to C, and a third to F; but when it is a fifth
									to D it is quite another thing-a full eighth of a tone sharper-as it must be or it
									can not be a fifth."
							It is true that a fifth above D is sharper than a third above F, but it is not true
								that it is "a full eighth of a tone sharper." It is exactly one-eightieth of a tone
								sharper, instead of one-eighth. The difference between the vibrations of the two
								tones being as 800 is to 810, when the vibration of C is 480, and in the same ratio
								upon any other key. The reviewer certainly never made his own demonstrations, or he
								would not have fallen into such an error.
						
						"The distances of the vibrations of a long string
										do have an effect on the gravity of acuteness of the tone. The
									longer  the vibrations the flatter the pitch, and
									the shorter the vibrations the sharper the pitch."
							This proposition is not only untrue in science, but the reverse of it is true in
								fact. The tone of a slack string, when the distances of its vibrations are greater,
								will be more acute than it will when they are less; not because the distances are
								greater, but because, being greater, they increase the tension of the string by
								carrying it farther from its right line. The same law also governs a tight string;
								but on a tight string the increase of tension by the greater distances of its
								vibrations, is so slight in proportion to the amount necessary to sharpen its tone,
								that it is not perceptible to the ear. These experiments must be pushed to the
								extreme distance of vibration that the string will bear, otherwise the change in the
								tone of the string can not be perceived. In the ordinary tension of a string for
								musical purposes, and under the severest and most intense playing, the tone will
								maintain its correct pitch.
							The proposition in the book that the reviewer attacks, namely: "The distance of the
								vibrations has no effect on the gravity or acuteness of the tone," therefore remains
								established. If the propositions of the reviewer were true, a sustained musical tone
								produced by a string would be impossible; and as the same law that governs the
								vibrations of a string also governs the beats of a pendulum--namely, that all the
								vibrations are isochronous, whether they be greater or less--gravitation acting upon
								the pendulum as tension upon the string--if the reviewer was right the measurement
								of time by a clock would also be  impossible.
								Increasing the length of a pendulum increases the time of its beats in inverse
								proportion, the same as increasing the tension of a string increases its vibration
								in time in inverse proportion; thus, the time of the pendulum is increased, and the
								tone of the string is raised. But the same law as to the weight of
								the pendulum and the string does not apply. Increasing the weight of a string sinks
								the tone, and decreasing the weight of a string raises the tone, both in direct
								proportion--the tension remaining the same; while increasing or decreasing the
								weight of a pendulum has no effect whatever on the time of its beats. Hence, the
								pendulum is the only means by which the pitch of musical tone can be ascertained and
								established. As the force of gravitation is always the same at the same level above
								the sea, and as the weight of the pendulum has no effect on the time of its beats,
								they must inevitably be isochronous.
						
						"The musical scale does comply
									with the natural scale of harmonics. It is not the harmonics of one note, but of
									three notes."
							The musical scale neither complies with the natural scale of harmonics, nor can
								either the fourth or the sixth above the key note be found in an infinite series of
								harmonics based upon the same key note. In Table No. 1, section 35 of "The Musical
								Scale," will be found a series of harmonics running through the number of 256, based
								on a key note of 480 vibrations to the second of time, beginning at 30, four octaves
								below, wherein search will be made in vain for either 640, which is the fourth, or
								800, which is the sixth of the scale; and should the series be pushed to  256,000 the result would be the same. This not only
								shows that neither the fourth nor the sixth are there, but it proves that neither of
								them can possibly be there, because any number that can not be divided by 30,
								without remainder, can not be a harmonic to that key. The number of vibrations of
								any key note will divide the number of vibrations of any of its harmonics, without
								remainder; and every addition of the number of vibrations of the key note to one of
								its harmonics, produces the next harmonic above it. Nor is it true in science that
								the harmonic series of three notes, or any other number, will comply with the
								musical scale. Each note of any number will produce precisely the same scale of
								harmonics, differing only in the pitch. Each tone has its own system of harmonics.
								It is true that by taking the key note, and assuming its fourth and sixth above--the
								two latter being the very tones that the harmonics of the key will not produce--you
								may pick out the major diatonic scale from the three series of harmonics; so we may
								assume the seven tones and have the musical scale at once. But this is not the
								proposition in the book. It is that the harmonic series of the key note does not
								comply with the musical scale.
						
						"Musical temperament means a mixture; and in order
									to have temperament we must have C and B sharp together, G flat and F sharp
									together, C sharp and D flat together, both sounding at the same time, and not a
									sound between them, which is neither."
							If this proposition means, as we suppose it does, that C and B-sharp should be the
								same tone, that G flat and F sharp should be the same tone, and that C sharp and D
								flat should be the same tone, then, as to these 
								letters, it is the same as the chromatic tempered scale --which is so repugnant to
								the writer of the review-- for there is no scale in which the flat of one tone is
								the same as the sharp of the tone below it, except the chromatic scale of equal
								temperament. But this is not the true scale. In flatting a tone to accord with a
								perfect scale, it is sunk to within a natural semitone of the tone below it; in
								sharping a tone, it is raised to within a natural semitone of the tone above it. The
								flat is not thus sunk to the middle of the whole tone below it, nor is the sharp
								thus raised to the middle of the whole tone above it. The whole tone is thus divided
								in the ratio (within an extremely small fraction) of 16 to 24, instead of the
								middle, as 20 to 20 would be. Now, temperament divides the octave into 12 equal
								steps, or degrees, each of which is called a semitone, and any two of which is
								called a tone. These semitones stand as 18, while 16 represents the true or natural
								semitone. Temperament thus makes each semitone a key note, and gives the performer
								12 key notes on his instrument instead of one.
						
						"Every harmonic of the key note is in harmony with
									any other harmonic of the same key note."
							This proposition is true as to the first six harmonics of the key note, all of
								which are also in harmony with the key note; but as to all others in the same
								series, it is utterly without foundation in science or in fact. Of the 256
								harmonics, as shown by table No. 1 in "The Musical Scale," six are in harmony with
								one another, and with the key note, while the other 250 are not only discords
								amongst themselves, but also with the other six, and with the key note. The last  two harmonics are represented by 7,650 and 7,680
								vibrations--having only one concurrent vibration in every 256. This not only proves
								the proposition in the book, but it also proves the negation of the proposition of
								the reviewer.
							But let us demonstrate it by another method.
							The ratios of the vibrations in the harmonic series progress as follows: namely, 1
								to 1, 1 to 2, 2 to 3, 3 to4, 4 to 5, 5 to 6, 6 to 7 , 7 to 8, 8 to 9, and so on, up
								to 7,650 to 7,680, as shown by the table above referred to, and just as much farther
								in the same ratio as, the student may desire to go. In the first concord they are
								unisons; in the second, octaves; in the third, fifths; in the fourth, fourths; in
								the fifth, a major third with its reflex, the minor sixth; in the sixth, the minor
								third with its reflex, the major sixth. This completes all the concords, any one of
								which, with its reflex, falls within and fills the octave. If we take 6 to 7 or 7 to
								8, both are discords; and if we follow the series to infinity we shall never obtain
								another concord. Indeed, the farther we go the worse the discord. Thus we have shown
								that the harmonic series exhausts its harmony in six concords, just as we shall
								show, in discussing the next proposition, that the musical scale exhausts its
								intervals in twelve divisions, which we call semitones.
						
						"How the author of 'The Musical Scale' ever arrived
									at the conclusion that 'if we take the concords of concords we can produce but
									twelve sounds to the octave,' is more than the writer of this can
								understand."
							The author of "The Musical Scale" never arrived at any such conclusion. That is not
								the proposition  in the book. It is this: "If we take
								the concords of the key note, and the concords of the concords of the key note--always adhering to the place where the interval first falls as the true
									point, we can produce but twelve intervals in the octave." This is a very
								different proposition from the one first assumed and then attacked by the reviewer;
								and we now add to the proposition that these twelve intervals constitute the true,
								natural, untempered musical scale. The words in italics, which the reviewer, besides
								misstating the other portion of the proposition, entirely ignored, are indispensable
								to the truth of the proposition; otherwise we should wander in error, not only to 53
								sounds in the octave, as the reviewer has done, but to 53 billions of sounds, or any
								other immense number that figures can express--for we should never again return to
								the key note. He has followed a succession of fifths, and thereby incorporated into
								his process in obtaining the A, the very error pointed out in the first proposition
								in his review, and the same which the italicised words in the present proposition
								correct. On returning to the C by the method of the reviewer, we find it too sharp
								by 6.547 vibrations in every 480--though the reviewer did not take the trouble to
								work out the problem and make the statement. Now, as 6.547 vibrations will never
								divide 480 vibrations without a remainder, we may safely assert that we should never
								return to the key note.
							There are several methods of working out the problem contained in the
								proposition--for it is no matter at what interval we begin, so it belongs to the key
								note or some of its concords, nor which concord we 
								take first. If we follow the law laid down in the proposition, the result will be
								the same by either method. I will endeavor to prove it in the plainest manner,
								though I despair of ever stating it any clearer than I have done in the book.
								Instead of the numbers of the intervals I will use the letters, as they are more
								familiar to musicians.
							Begin with C, the key note; take its common chord, and we have C, E, G; then take G
								and its common chord, and we add B and D to the scale. Next take F and its common
								chord, this gives us A, and repeats C, which completes the major diatonic scale. Now
								we will take the minor third above C, and we have E flat, the minor third above G,
								and we have B flat, and the minor third above F, which gives us A flat. Having thus
								made use of the key note and its concords, both in the major and minor modes, we
								next resort to the concords of the concords of the key note, beginning at D, which
								is the fifth above G. Take the common chord of D, and it will give us F sharp and
								repeat A; but this repeated A is too sharp; we therefore adhere to the first A produced from F. Following the process in its order, we take A as
								the next basis. The common chord taken from A gives us C sharp and repeats E. Bring
								these tones together consecutively, and we have the natural chromatic scale of
								twelve intervals in the octave, which may be repeated to infinity, by adhering to
								each point as it is first produced, and we will not be able to obtain another
								interval. This is the scale shown upon the monochord, and by numbers in Plate VI in
								"The Musical Scale."
						



						

						"Flatting or sharping a tone is really moving it up
									or down, not inserting a new interval to obtain the semitone."
							Nothing can be more true than this proposition, as shown by Plate X in the book,
								yet the reviewer does not seem to understand it. The words were spoken of the
								diatonic scale--not the chromatic. It is precisely the method by which the
								transposition of the key note is obtained on the double-action harp. An ideally
								perfect musical instrument would have no fixed tones at all, but the power of
								expressing easy gradation of tone from the the lowest to the highest. The fingers of
								the violinist are simply four movable keys, and allowing his intrument a compass of
								four octaves, command 2,700 gradations of tone, which are the equivalent of the same
								number of fixed keys. The human voice within the compass of three octaves expresses
								1,800 grada of tone with its single pipe, as if the whole compass was but one
								movable tone. This matchless instrument would be poorly represented by thirty-six
								immovable keys. No proposition is plainer or clearer than that to sharp a note you
								raise it, and to flat it you sink it; but on instruments of fixed tones, represented
								by keys, as the organ or piano, of course an additional key must be inserted to
								either sharp or flat a note.
							But I agree with the reviewer in the remark which he quotes, that "Few persons are
								aware how great is the difference between the true intonations of a fine voice, or a
								violin, and the false intonations of such instruments of fixed tone as the organ or
								piano-forte, etc."
							
							If persons, however, who are not aware of this difference will examine Table IV in
								"The Musical Scale," they will see the exact difference, and far
								plainer than they can possibly detect it by the ear. The tempered scale is
								undoubtedly imperfect in all its intervals except the octaves, but not so much so as
								careless talkers and writers are continually asserting. The imperfection does not in
								any interval amount to as much as one vibration in one hundred. The truth is, it has
								always been denounced by theorists who never understood it, yet played on, and sung
								with by artists, and listened to by mankind for hundreds of years. As imperfect as
								temperament is, it is impossible to construct an instrument with fixed tones upon
								which the performer can change the key-note by modulation by any other method than
								by temperament, and without such instruments music as a high art is simply
								impossible. Without modulation, music would soon sink back to its condition amongst
								the mountains where it is sung on the diatonic scale by the swains and their
								sweethearts in answer to the echoes. Whatever theorists and abstractionists may say,
								artists, amateurs, and listeners will never consent to throw away their organs and
								pianos because their scales do not strictly fulfill the requirement of abstract
								science. 
						
					


					


					
					

						SCALE OF THE G TETRACHORD
							(HALF SIZE.)
					

				

				
				
					
						THE TETRACHORD: A NEW MUSICAL
						INSTRUMENT.
					
					

					The tetrachord is a new musical instrument of the viol kind. In external shape and
						proportions it resembles generally the family to which it belongs, as the violin or
						violoncello. It may be made of any size, from that of the double-bass or violono to the
						kit or smallest fiddle; but from the mode of stringing, and the scale of tuning, it is a
						distinct instrument, in quality of tone, and method of obtaining the scale, and in
						practice, from any of the viols as now used. The strings of each instrument are all of
						the same kind, as all wrapped, or all unwrapped catgut, or silk, properly graduated in
						size and tension; and, including the set, may be tuned to any pitch from the ophicleide
						to the piccolo.
					The G tetrachord, which is herein described, is of the size of the violin, and is
						strung with four wrapped strings, resembling the G string of the violin; only graduated
						in size and weight, so that with the proper tension each one will produce the tone
						desired. The lowest string is tuned the same as the violin G; the others are tuned to A,
						B, C, ascending, consecutively.*
						*When it is not convenient
							to get strings properly graduated, the experiment may be tried by using the ordinary
							sized violin G string for the G, and a lighter G (there is generally sufficient
							difference between their size and weight) for an A, and two guitar D strings--selected
							in the same manner, as to size and weight--for the B and C strings. Strings for
							tetrachords, tuned to other letters, either below or above G, may be selected from the
							various viol strings as they are now made, so as to answer a very good purpose.
						 This open scale of tuning is the same as the Greek
						tetrachord--hence the name of the instrument. The tetrachord divides the octave into two
						equal parts, leaving the space between the fourth and fifth between them; that is, the
						intervals from the first to the fourth, or from C to F inclusive, in the ascending
						scale, are the same in their relation to one another as the intervals from the fifth to
						the returning octave, or from G to C inclusive.
					The first octave of the scale is produced by the open strings and stop-notes, or all
						except the lowest tone, G, by stop-notes, as the performer chooses; all the tones above
						the first octave, in the diatonic scale, are open harmonics--that is, tones produced by
						lightly touching the string instead of stopping it firmly. The point of touch to produce
						a harmonic is always at some aliquot division of the string; and when a stopped harmonic
						is made, it is by stopping the string with the first finger, and touching the aliquot
						point of the remaining or vibrating part of the string with some other finger. Double
						harmonics are made by touching the string at two aliquot points at the same time. Thus a
						complete chromatic scale, with all its shades of tone, is within the power of the
						performer. The practical compass of the instrument is three octaves and a half, which
						may be commanded by a single position of the hand. All the stop-notes, except the lowest
						G and G sharp, may be doubled in power--that is, made on two strings in unison; and  within the range of the stop-notes above the lowest F
						inclusive, four unisons may be commanded, either of which the performer may choose, as
						best suits the passage he is playing, and all of which could be used at once if the bow
						could be made to touch more than two strings at the same time; and indeed may be used by
						a dexterous sweep of the bow across them all. Each harmonic tone is composed of two or
						more unisons, produced by the vibration of each aliquot part of the string. The tone,
						when the string is touched in the middle, or divided into two parts, is made up of two
						unisons; if thus divided into three parts, of three unisons; and so to any number of
						divisions; but above the sixth division the harmonics do not belong to the scale of
						which the string is the key note, and therefore can not be used in music at all.

					The harmonic produced by dividing the string into two parts, is an octave above the
						pitch of the string; the one produced by dividing the string into three parts, is the
						fifth in the second octave; that by dividing the string into four parts, is two octaves
						above the string; a division of the string into five parts produces the major third in
						the third octave, and a division into six parts produces The fifth in the third octave,
						being an octave above that produced by a division of the string into three parts. In the
						middle of the string the stop-notes and harmonics are the same in letter. All the
						harmonics, notwithstanding the wide intervals between them on a given string, are so
						arranged by the method of tuning as to be brought into consecutive order in the scale.
						The harmonics produced by the division of the string in two, three, four, five, or six
						aliquot parts, and their  multiples, four, six, eight,
						ten, and twelve, and so on, are all that properly belong to the musical scale.
					By stopping the strings in the middle, the scale obtained between the nut and the
						middle may be repeated between the middle and the bridge, in both the stop-notes and
						harmonics, and in exactly the same manner, but it is an octave higher. This gives the
						instrument a scale of more than four octaves, which, on tetrachords of the lower pitch,
						is quite practicable; but in the highest portions of the scale on those of the higher
						pitch, it exceeds the musical compass, except in theory, and becomes impracticable. The
						bow would have to be moved so swiftly to outstrip the vibrations of the string, and thus
						produce a clear note, as to render its motion by the hand impossible. It would require
						the sweep of the entire length of the bow to produce an instantaneous tone.
					By spreading the diagram of the finger-board before the student, with the bridge toward
						him, he will see at once that the same letter runs diagonally across the finger-board,
						from left to right toward the nut, and from right to left toward the bridge--either of
						which the performer may take separately, or combine them, as he chooses. It will be
						seen, also, that the scale may be made from the lowest tone of the first string, by
						ascending the string, stopping at the proper intervals, or by one step to the second
						string and ascending that, or two steps to the third string and ascending that, or three
						steps to the fourth string and ascending that; or by alternately taking one step across
						and one up, or by one, two, or three across or up, as may be most convenient. Of course
							 descending the scale is just the reverse of this.
						Indeed, arithmetically, any octave on the instrument may be played in many different
						ways. Only the diatonic scale is marked on the diagram, as every musician-- and this
						little work presupposes a fair knowledge of the science and art of music in the
						reader--knows that a flat of any tone is made by stopping the string a little lower than
						its natural, and its sharp by stopping it a little higher. A flat or sharp in the
						harmonics is made by holding the stop-note from which it proceeds a little lower or
						higher than the place of its natural tone, and making the harmonic a little higher or
						lower, as either its flat or sharp is desired. A close examination of the diagram will
						also show the student that all the concords of any tone--the minor third, major third,
						fourth, fifth, minor sixth, major sixth, or octave, may be commanded, upon one of the
						other strings, from any point. This gives the tetrachord great power when playing in
						concert, and adds wonderfully to its capacity when played separately. A little
						familiarity with the scale of the instrument, and the fingering, will enable any
						musician to play it without difficulty. Of course to the beginner, like all musical
						instruments, it will be difficult to understand, and far more difficult to play it with
						excellence.
					But it is impracticable, by a description in words, to give a hundredth part of the
						passages of melody, or the combinations of harmony, which can be expressed on the
						tetrachord. The different modes and combinations are endless, all of which may be
						understood and obtained by study; yet the musician must love the science and the
						practice of the art, or he is not likely  to attain to
						excellence in either. Nothing, indeed, but love and labor will make a musician on any
						instrument.
					A full set of tetrachords requires twelve instruments:
					
						The lower C double-bass tetrachord--the size of the double-bass viol--is
								strung with four heavy wrapped cat-gut strings, properly graduated in size and
								weight to answer to the tones required, and is tuned double C, D, E, and F,
								consecutively. This arrangement brings the finger-board so under the hand as to
								avoid all danger of false stopping, either in the stop-notes or harmonics. It
								affords peculiar facility in execution, and the tones are very rich and
								powerful.
						The lower or double-bass D tetrachord is the same size as the C, strung
								with large, heavy cat-gut strings, graduated and tuned D, E, F sharp, and G,
								consecutively. It takes a higher part in the bass than the double C tetrachord. Its
								tones are peculiar and soft, yet powerful; but different in quality from those of
								the C tetrachord.
						The second C or bass tetrachord is strung with wrapped cat-gut strings,
								and tuned to C, D, E, F, the same as the double C tetrachord, but an octave higher.
								Its size is the same as that of the violoncello. The tone is remarkably soft and
								strong, and the instrument is an admirable support to the bass voice.
						The second D or tenor tetrachord is strung with unwrapped cat-gut
								strings, and tuned D, E, F sharp, and G, an octave above the double D tetrachord.
								Its size is also the same as that of the violoncello. As a support to the tenor
								voice it can not be surpassed by any other instrument.
						The E tetrachord is of the size of the violin, or  it is better to be a little larger. It is strung with wrapped cat-gut
								strings. Its lowest note is E, below the violin G; and it is tuned E, F sharp, G
								sharp, and A, consecutively. It takes the part of the second violin with fine
								effect. The tone is exceedingly soft and creamy. The lowest string should be a size
								heavier than the violin G; the others graduated accordingly.
						The G tetrachord is the one we have particularly described in the
								diagram. It takes the part of the leading violin, but may also be used for the part
								of second violin. By the description of one, the musician will easily understand
								those of any other pitch.
						The B flat tetrachord is strung with wrapped cat-gut strings, a little
								smaller than those used for the G tetrachord. The best size for the instrument is
								that of the three-quarter violin. The full size of a violin requires the strings to
								be rather attenuated to make them stand, and renders the tone less perfect. They are
								tuned B flat, C, D, and E flat. The tone is fine and very pleasing.
						The D tetrachord is of the size of the violin, and stands next to the G
								as a leading instrument. It is strung with unwrapped cat-gut strings, the lowest one
								corresponding to the violin D. They are tuned D, E, F sharp, and G. It corresponds
								to the flute in its scale, and also resembles it in tone. Flute duets may be played
								upon it throughout. It sustains the female voice admirably.
						The F tetrachord is strung with unwrapped cat-gut strings, properly
								graduated in size; and is tuned F, G, A, and B flat. Its tones resemble those of a G
								lute, and are very soft and sweet. The size of the instrument is the same as that of
								the violin.

						
						The A flat tetrachord is of the size of the violin, strung with
								unwrapped cat-gut strings, and tuned A flat, B flat, C, and D flat. Its tone is
								keen, yet soft and pleasing.
						The B instrument is also of the violin size strung with unwrapped
								cat-gut strings, of a size smaller than those used on the A flat tetrachord. They
								are tuned B, C sharp, D sharp, and E. The tone of this instrument is very brilliant,
								but it is only calculated for the higher parts.
						The upper D tetrachord should not be larger than a half sized violin. It
								is more curious and interesting than valuable, as the lower instruments reach to the
								top of the scale. It is tuned D (piccolo), E, F sharp, and G. The upper string in
								size corresponds to the violin E. Its scale goes up to the D above the highest piano
								C; but the upper half of the highest octave is very difficult to execute, it
								requires so swift a bow. As the extreme upper notes on the piano must be struck
								quickly or the hammer will damp the tone before it leaves the string, so the upper
								tones on this instrument must be bowed swiftly, even with a jerk, or they will be
								destroyed by the bow itself, the same as when the bow is dragged too slowly across
								the string to acommodate its vibration. The upper D tetrachord takes the highest
								part with the piccolo.
					
					Each instrument in the set is named from the letter of its lowest tone.
					The tetrachord, as remarked, may be constructed, strung, and tuned to any pitch--just
						as the maker, composer, arranger, or performer may choose; but it is thought that the
						above modes are the best, relative to one another. And the semitone may be placed  between any of the two strings, and thus change the
						key-note of the instrument. For example, on the G tetrachord, flat the B string, and the
						key-note will be transposed to F; or flat the A string and the B string, then the
						key-note will be E flat; and so on through the various changes. Every instrument of the
						viol kind--indeed of every other kind except the piano and organ--is intrinsically
						better, owing to its pitch and peculiar construction, in certain keys than in others,
						and gives the performer a more ready command over certain positions than others. To meet
						this difficulty the tetrachord may be made for, and strung and tuned to any key, so as
						to be most readily adapted to the position required. The more open harmonics obtained in
						the given key, the greater and easier will be the facility of execution.
					Viols, as now made, may be used as tetrachords merely by changing the mode of stringing
						and tuning, but it is thought that they should be slightly changed in their structure
						when made especially for tetrachords; that for all the instruments strung with wrapped
						strings there should be a bass-rod under each foot of the bridge, and the sound post
						placed a little back and between them; and in those strung with unwrapped strings there
						should be no bass-rod at all. But these modes of constructing the instruments must be
						tested by experiments before they can be declared to be the best. In tetrachords of the
						violin size or smaller, the strings should be notched a little wider on the nut than
						usual on violins. This affords the fingers greater facilities in combining the
						harmonies.


					

					It is thought that the tetrachord has some advantages over the viols as they are now
						used:
					
						In the great superiority of harmonics--of which the scale except the
								lower octave is composed--over stop-notes. The harmonic is the purest tone that can
								be obtained by mechanical means. It always consists of two or more unisons, so
								blended that the ear can not detect them separately; and it is impossible to make
								them falsely if the string is in tune. They can not be produced at all unless they
								are perfect in their relation to the tone of the string upon which they are
								made.
						In the complete uniformity in the quality of the tones throughout the
								compass of the instrument. This arises from the uniformity in the quality of the
								strings used upon each instrument. It is impossible to obtain uniformity in the
								quality of tones which are produced by different means. Every one knows at once the
								difference between the A on the flute and the A on the violin, yet the tones in
								science are the same; and every musician instantly detects the difference between a
								tone produced on a wrapped string and the same tone produced on an unwrapped string.
								And the difference runs through all the viol family as now used; not even the
								violin, which is the most perfect of all instruments, is free from this defect--if
								it is not sacrilege to say so--and the performer, though he he may the greatest of
								artists, can not disguise it.
						Another advantage in favor of the tetrachord is the command it gives over
								a consecutive scale of open harmonics, which, as we have shown, are the purest tones
								produced on any mechanical instrument; and  a scale of
								harmonics which can be managed with facility is a desideratum.
						The fingering on the tetrachord in producing harmonics, will be found far
								easier than on the viol.
						There is a much wider scope for delicacy and expression in the management
								of the bow, in harmonics, on the tetrachord than on the viol.
						There is an incompatibility in stringing a viol with two kinds of
								strings. As a general rule, viols which are the best on wrapped strings are not the
								best on the unwrapped strings. The tones on the wrapped strings are sometimes better
								than those upon the unwrapped, but frequently the tones on the unwrapped strings are
								the best on the instrument. These discrepancies are always to be reconciled on each
								instrument if possible. Whoever has lovingly handled viols knows this fact very
								well. And, as a general rule, instruments should be thinner and lighter for wrapped
								strings than those for unwrapped; but there are hidden secrets in viols which no one
								can discover by their appearance, as we can not tell a man's genius from his looks.
								Of course, there are external indications by which we may judge approximately, but
								nothing short of careful and repeated experiments can settle the question as to the
								qualities of a viol, just as we can not know a man of genius until he has given us
								some evidence of the fact. Now, this peculiarity in viols may be turned to advantage
								in tetrachords. Each one may be chosen, by experiment, for the letter to which it is
								best adapted.
					
					But the tetrachord does not dispute the place of the viol, which belongs to the highest
						class of instruments,  and has been used for more than
						four hundred years, nor claim to be its superior, nor its equal, indeed, in all
						respects; it only hopes for an introduction into the family, and a fair recognition
						according to its merits.
					In conclusion, let us add that this little book is not all theory. It is the result of
						many years' careful study of the subject, and of repeated experiments by every
						imaginable method. What disadvantages may be developed by use in the tetrachord, or
						whether it has any advantages over the viol as now used, must be left to time and
						experience to determine.
				


				



				
					
						RUSSIAN LITERATURE
					
					

					Since the Crimean war, in 1855, the power of Russia, although it suffered in that
						contest, has been much more noticed by other nations than it had been before; and since
						the abolition of serfdom in her dominion, in 1861, her government has become a study for
						other statesmen besides her own; but no nation yet has given her literature more than a
						passing notice. The reason may be plain. Her great military power is felt by the world,
						and her policy, in reference to the law of nations, has its influence, but her
						literature, which will ultimately represent the best results of all her powers, is not
						yet established. Perhaps her banner may yet wave, her policy rule, and her language be
						heard, from the chilling snows of Siberia to the burning rays of Good Hope--for she is
						rapidly availing herself of the science, art, and skill of other nations--if so, then
						her literature will be known to the world; for the school and college, in the range of
						time, are more powerful than the cabinet and the field.
					Literature is as enduring as human nature, and had its beginning almost coeval with the
						origin of mankind. The traditions, observations, and tales of love and battle, form the
						basis of the first rude essays of the historian, the philosopher, and the poet.  Poetry precedes civilization--not, indeed, in the shape of
						regular poems, but in bold expressions and striking metaphor; tradition is ever the
						precursor of authentic history, and observation is the only true basis of philosophy.
						The arts began early in the history of man. Necessity invents the useful arts, and the
						love of the beautiful, implanted in our nature, suggests the fine arts. After myths have
						passed away like the clouds of the sky, or the fogs of the sea; after traditions have
						been winnowed of their fictions, and furnished their grains of truth; after philosophy
						has studied the universe and its laws, then comes science, which is what we know; and
						all of these together constitute a nation's literature. Whenever a nation begins, it
						begins a history, a philosophy, the arts and sciences, and a literature. But amongst a
						people, where man has to struggle with the elements and his enemies for mere animal
						existence, although he necessarily acquires knowledge, there are but few joys for the
						mind and heart; yet in more polished nations literature gradually becomes a want of the
						soul almost as much as bread is a want of the body. Literature, indeed, may be defined
						to be the recorded culture of the mind and the soul; and the best literature is the best
						thoughts, upon the best subjects, expressed in the best words. The orator and the poet
						precede the scholar and the author. The scholar learns from the poet, the author reads,
						invents, and imagines; the critic comes last. He draws his rules from those who spoke,
						wrote, and sung, without rules, save the great rule of nature; and the bold oratory and
						artless song of the savage sometimes have a beauty which no learning or criticism can
						improve. Kings, princes, heroes, warriors,  statesmen, and
						rulers, however useful to their times, however wise, brilliant, or accomplished, pass
						away with their periods; while the man of letters represents pure thought, which remains
						like the fixed stars; and he is often remembered for a single sentence, a line, a verse,
						a principle, a sentiment, simply expressed in, words, long after kings, princes, heroes,
						warriors, statesmen, and rulers are buried beneath the dust of ages, and forgotten
						forever.

					The earliest authentic history of the Slavonie nations, tions, of which Russia is the
						great modern exponent, fades away amidst the traditions, legends, and tales which have
						just been noticed. Herodotus mentions a people which are supposed to have been a tribe
						of the Slavi; and some allusions to their country and race are made by Strabo, Pliny,
						and Tacitus. From the resemblance of the Slavonic language to the Sanscrit it has been
						supposed that these people came from India, but when they passed over into the regions
						they now occupy, can not be ascertained; probably it was before the Christian era, but
						the first authentic intelligence with regard to them does not reach back farther than
						the sixth century. Doubtless the whole Slavonic race originally spoke the same language,
						but it was soon broken up into dialects, as a language spread over a vast region of
						country will be--especialy while it remains unwritten. The Slavonic language has become
						varied and enriched by the Greek, Latin, German, French, and even English, and has now
						ripened into the modern Russian; but the earliest manuscripts in the Slavonic language
						are not older than the time of the eleventh century. There are some inscriptions and
						devices upon the crosses and monuments perhaps  older than
						that date. The earliest records by native writers were written about the middle of the
						eleventh century. A code of laws was enacted as early as 1280, and recorded in the
						native language. And Russia like Greece, and indeed like most other nations, has its
						epic poem. It is called "Igor's Expedition," and is supposed to have been written in the
						twelfth century. It is said to possess a refinement and delicacy remarkable for so rude
						a people as they were at that time, and also has much power and gracefulness; but the
						critics do not place it very high as a literary production. In the fifteenth century
						Russian literature received an important influence from the liberality of some of the
						native princes, who invited the learned from Germany, Italy and France into their
						dominions. About the same time public schools were founded; and the Russian youth were
						sometimes sent to foreign universities to be educated. The language and literature of
						Poland, also, about this period commenced having an important effect upon the minds of
						the Russian people; and subsequently Russia obtained the greater part of her public
						libraries from the spoilation of Poland, and very much enriched her literature from the
						language and works of that intelligent and brave, but unfortunate people. History began
						to be regularly recorded, and thus assume an authentic and permanent shape; but Russian
						literature can not be said to have had a beginning before the reign of Peter the Great,
						at the close of the seventeenth century. He adopted the Russian language in his courts
						of justice, and in diplomacy, and made it the polite language of the nation. He had type
						cast, and established presses, and caused many books to be translated into the Russian
							 sian from other languages--particularly from the German
						and the French; indeed, Peter the Great was to Russia very muich what Alfred the Great
						was to England; still, up to this time even, the Russian language has no systematic
						grammar, and of course but little attention has been paid to style. But if Peter the
						Great laid the foundation of Russian literature, Lomonosof must be regarded as its
						architect. As most great benefactors are, he was humbly born; his father was a
						fisherman. He first learned to read from the servants of the church, and so ardent was
						his desire for knowledge, that he left the shelter of his father's roof clandestinely,
						and went to Moscow, where, he had been told, they taught the languages; thence to St.
						Petersburgh, where he obtained a liberal education. Afterwards he traveled through
						Germany and Holland, where he studied philosophy and the sciences. His Russian grammar
						brought his native language from chaos into order, and he was the first one who
						cultivated style. He sketched the history of his country, and wrote several works on
						chemistry and mineralogy. He also composed a long epic poem, as well as several odes and
						tragedies, but they do not rank high; he was rather a philosopher than a poet. His works
						are blemished, however, by the too common fault of all who write under tyranny, namely,
						an undue tendency to panegyric, and a stooping to despotic power. These are weaknesses
						in a great mind, but the age and country in which he lived must be the excuse of
						Lomonosof. Contemporaneous with Lomonosof were Kheraskof and Sumarakof, who were very
						prolific writers, but not of remarkable genius; although Kheraskof, having written an
						immense and cumbrous  epic poem, was called the Russian
						Homer. About the same time also lived and flourished Dershavin, a poet of true genius.
						Although his works were bedazzled with the glory of Catharine, yet the true metal could
						be discovered beneath the tinsel. He wrote an "Ode to God" of uncommon beauty; it was
						translated into most of the European languages, and attained the distinguished honor of
						being printed in letters of gold and hung in the palace of the Chinese Emperor and the
						Temple of Jeddo. But devotion to power, from which not even Dershavin was exempt, is the
						weakness of all the literati of Russia. Patriotism is a becoming sentiment, but a
						literature expressive of that which is not just to all men, can have no abiding place in
						the Republic of Letters. Catharine was a great patron of learning, but a literature
						indebted to any other influence than that of truth and nature, can never be pure or
						permanent.
					During the reign of Alexander, who succeeded Catharine, many new schools and several
						universities were founded, also a number of museums. This prince affected to be a great
						patron of letters, but his influence rather made learning fashionable than afforded it
						any substantial advantage. Writers became extremely numerous; authorship seemed to be a
						rage with the nobility. Russia, at this time, possessed about fourteen thousand volumes
						in the Slavonic language, more than seven thousand of which were said to be the product
						of a single year. We shall be able to mention but few authors of this period--they are
						very numerous--among whom Karamzin must stand at the head, for, unquestionably, next to
						Lomonosof, he was the great benefactor of Russian literature.  After fighting awhile in the army with credit, he turned his attention to
						letters, and established the Moscow Journal, a periodical through
						which he first became known to the world in his new character. He won nobler laurels
						with his pen than he had done with his sword. At length he enlarged his field by
						founding another periodical called the European Messenger, in which he
						took a larger and higher range of subjects; but his more permanent fame rests on his
						history of the Russian Empire. This great work, however, having been written under the
						patronage of the government, is not free from the blemishes we have before mentioned. If
						not false in fact, yet the romantic coloring is too apt to gild the deed which truth and
						justice must condemn. The great advantage which Russian literature gained from Karamzin,
						was the improvement of its language and the cultivation of a vigorous and idiomatic
						style.
					A remarkable poet of this period, both for genius and misfortune, was Ivan Koslof.
						Early in life he had been a gay and fashionable man, and pursued his career of
						dissipation until sickness deprived him of the use of his limbs, soon after which
						misfortune he lost his sight. Adversity seemed to touch and awaken his true genius. He
						found a balm for his afflictions in literature. Heine, of Germany, affords a similar and
						more recent example of the soothing effect of culture under misfortune. Being a lover of
						the intense and passionate, Koslof imitated and translated Byron, and like that great
						poet, and like Heine also, "he learned in sufering what he taught in song." Another
						poet, of a similar name--Ivan Krylof--was celebrated for the composition of many stories
						and fables, and  his sweet appeals to child-like nature.
						Count Orloff as well as several of the literati of Paris, did him the honor to translate
						his works into the French language. He was a pure, harmless, kind-hearted man, and,
						notwithstanding the ruggedness of the Russian character, became a great favorite of the
						nation. Whoever, indeed, obtains a hearing from the youth of a nation secures perpetual
						fame. At this period, Russia had produced but little in the drama; nothing, indeed, in
						the department of tragedy of any greatness or power. Ozerof is the leading dramatic
						poet, and his most popular, and perhaps his best play, is entitled the "Miseries of
						Intellect"--surely a most admirable theme. The novel has been cultivated in Russia, both
						in prose and rhyme, to a considerable extent. The one best known among the older ones,
						as far as I am informed, is entitied "Bursak," and is said to abound
						in that pleasing, quiet humor, so characteristic of Don Quixote, but it narrates the
						adventures of a scholar with his pen, instead of a knight-errant with his sword.
						Recently, Russia has produced a novelist of great power--Ivan S. Turgenef--still living.
						His first venture--"Notes of a Sportsman"--a series of sketches of country life,
						contains vigorous attacks upon the villeinage of the serfs, and had much to do, it is
						thought, in abolishing that odious system of slavery. These sketches were followed by
						more elaborate works --"Fathers and Children," "Smoke," "A Nest of Nobles," "The
						Unfortunate One," etc.--all upon Russian subjects, and written with great vigor.
					Translations have even abounded in Russia. Homer, Ossian, Ariosto, Tasso, Pope, Byron,
						in poetry; Newton, Locke, and Bacon, in philosophy; and a 
						great number of ecclesiastical and educational works have received the Slavonic
						dress.
					The reign of the late Emperor Nicholas commenced in a storm--indeed, in blood, and
						ended in storm and blood. The most of his rule, however, was calm, but it was the calm
						of force, not of consent. Many of the young literati were concerned in the bloody
						tragedy which ushered the emperor into power, and lost their lives in the contest. His
						death, during the terrible war in the Crimea, will be long remembered. The conflict was
						really between free thought and despotic power. The Russian Pegasus had become restive
						under the curb and rein of tyranny. He longed to range at liberty in fresh pastures, and
						drink from a pure Hippocrene, or dash his daring hoof on Parnassus Mount; but, alas! he
						was subjugated to the Emperor's will, and compelled to drudge in his iron service, just
						as Napoleon II geared him to the car of tyranny in France.
					Research and criticism began to assume a more prominent part in literature during the
						late reign than it had previously done. A periodical work, entitled "The Telegraph," was
						established by Polevoi, who was a self-made man--not having been bred to letters, nor
						was he a man of much genius--but he possessed a clear judgment and great energy of
						thought, the very qualities which constitute the critic. History and biography assumed
						more importance, but no work of philosophy or science, or at least none of a high order,
						had yet appeared written by a Russian, or in the Slavonic language. Religious
						controversies arose, and skepticism and infidelity made their appearance during this
						reign, probably transplanted  from Germany and France. Panslavism--a political doctrine, according to which Russia, being at
						the head, claimed the right to absorb all the Slavonic nations into her own empire--was
						much discussed at this period, and was indeed the principle which gave the final blow to
						the liberty of Poland. Books of travel and studies of antiquities now appeared, but they
						formed no very considerable branch of Russian literature. Novels were very numerous and
						began to portray Russian home-life, but no remarkable author appeared in this line.
						Their works were all ephemeral, corresponding to the multitude of tales which we now
						find in our own nation. Pushkin, the greatest poet that Russia has yet produced,
						flourished during this time. He had been banished by Alexander for his too daring
						sentiments of liberty, but on account of his great genius was recalled by Nicholas.
						During his exile he wrote much and well, but on his return he seemed to have lost the
						spirit of his genius, so baleful is the influence of a despotic court upon this noble
						principle. His writings possess the true Byronic fire, and, like those of Koslof,
						evidently share the influence of the great English bard. Pushkin, indeed, may be called
						the Russian Byron. He had the daring of an eagle, and behind the bars of despotism, like
						the caged eagle, could only gaze upon the sky of liberty. The court of Nicholas was also
						adorned by a number of minor poets, amongst whom two ladies of some genius appeared--the
						Princess Volkanski, and Miss Teplef. Mrs. Helena Han was also an author of celebrity,
						whose writings resemble those of the late Madame George Sand. A collection of the
						popular poetry of the Slavonic tribes has been made by Bielowski, a  Polander, by which it appears that Russia, though the largest, is not the
						oldest nor the most poetical branch of this extensive family. But Russin poetry,
						comparing it in quality to that of this prolific age in our own country, is very limited
						in its production. The Russians can not be said to be a poetical people. Pushkin is
						their only great poet when compared with the poets of other nations. The drama, during
						the reign of Nicholas, lay at the feet of the Emperor. The very titles of the plays are
						abject, and sometimes even sacrilegious; for instance, one is called "Our Lives Belong
						to the Czar," another "The Hand of God Defends the Czar."
					Polish literature, although now embraced in the general name of Russian, of which,
						however, it is the greater and better part, still deserves a separate notice. The
						language of Poland, like that of Russia, arose out of the Slavonic dialects, but has
						been modified, of course, by the surrounding languages. No living language can remain
						permanent; even the written language of the Chinese, the most peculiar of all languages,
						is now changing under the pressure of surrounding influences. Like the Egyptian
						hieroglyphics, the key to its meaning has been discovered, and it no longer remains a
						mystery. The Polish tongue is still spoken by tens of millions of people. The earliest
						production in this language is a war song--which is still sung, or at least was before
						the Partition of Poland amongst the conquering powers--supposed to have been written
						about the close of the tenth century. It should be remembered that Poland had no
						existence as a nation, separate from the Slavonic tribes, earlier than the tenth
						century, nor, indeed, had  Russia earlier than the ninth.
						This song, which rather resembles a prayer, has no poetical value, and, not-withstanding
						so early a specimen, the beginning of Polish literature does not date before the
						fifteenth century. There are a few slight traces of recorded thought throughout this
						dreary period, but nothing that remains permanent. Indeed, all the nations of the earth,
						except some in the East, during these five centuries, and the five immediately preceding
						them, were robbed of their rights, ensnared in ecclesiastical meshes, enchained by
						political tyranny, and trodden down to the deepest degradation. The sun of literature,
						during one thousand years, was obscured by the clouds of superstition; philosophy was
						denied, science condemned, the arts--except where they subserved the interests of the
						church--were ignored, and liberty destroyed. From the tenth to the fifteenth century,
						Polish thought and Polish letters were wholly governed by church dignitaries, who were
						all foreigners, the nation not being allowed to exercise even the humblest clerical
						privileges. While a nation is thus robbed and ridden, it is very easy to see why it
						produces no literature. The mind must be free, or its thoughts are worthless.
					Casimir was the first wise Polish prince; he improved the laws, established courts of
						justice, and laid the foundation of a national education. He was the Peter the Great of
						Poland. The first printing press was erected at Cracow, in 1488, from which period the
						Polish language may be said to date. There has been found, however, a work called "The
						Memoirs of a Janissary," written at an earlier period, but its language is so imperfect
						that a modern Pole can not read  it without explanation.
						It is the journal of a Polish nobleman, who joined the Turkish army, and fought at the
						siege of Constantinople, in 1453; and, of course, the true date of the work cold not
						have been long after that event. Some religious works, that bear date about the same
						time, are still extant, but their language is also so imperfect that they afford
						conclusive proof of the true commencement of Polish letters. The annals of Poland,
						however, seem to be correctly written at this time, and for a long period before, but
						they are found in the Latin language, and written by foreign scholars.
					Kochanowski was the founder of Polish literature. He was a man of genius, a scholar,
						and a poet. His translations of Homer, Anacreon, and Horace, are distinguished for force
						of language and purity of style; and his original pieces possess uncommon vigor and
						beauty. He was a dramatic as well as a lyrical poet. Rybinski and Klonowitz were also
						distinguished as poets; the former wrote in the Latin as well as in the Polish language,
						and was created a poet-laureate. Karpinski was the poet of the people, and may justly be
						called the Burns of Poland. From this period, Poland has had a continued succession of
						poets--too numerous to even name--of a high order in all the departments of the art,
						down to the time she lost her nationality; and there is one noble trait of character,
						which, during all of this time, must forever distinguish them from the Russian poets of
						the same period --their muse was devoted to freedom; but, alas, for the sad effect of
						despotic power in chaining genius --a recent volume of poetry, published at Warsaw,
						celebrates the praises of all the tyrants of Russia,  from
						Rurik to Alexander. And eloquence, before the downfall of Poland, was also highly
						cultivated, and very much esteemed, as it always is in a free nation, and as it never
						can be under a despotism. Russia has never produced a single orator of eminence, whilst
						Poland has had her hundreds; but, alas, for Polish eloquence, that, too, has been hushed
						forever.
					The novel has been cultivated, perhaps, in Poland, less than any other department of
						literature, yet Scott has been happily imitated. Sharbeck is the principal, or, at
						least, one of the leading Polish novelists; but the novel which is said to be the most
						read was written by a woman, the Princess of Wirtemberg, and is called, "The Intimations
						of the Heart"--a very pleasing title, and a subject which a woman could most happily
						treat. Historians and analists have abounded in Poland--none of the highest order,
						however; but the true history of Poland can never be written. Her nationality is lost,
						her libraries are plundered, and her archives destroyed. Russia seems determined, under
						the fatal doctrine of Panslavism, not only to destroy her from amongst the nations of
						the earth, but also to efface every mark that might seem to indicate her former
						existence. She was too learned, too eloquent, too brave, and too free, to suit the
						designs of Russia; and the remains of her noble qualities but ill comport with despotic
						power.
					In philosophy, mathematics, astronomy, and the practical sciences, Poland, for three
						hundred years before her downfall, stood equal to any of the contemporaneous nations;
						while Russia, proper, in these departments, fell below mediocrity. The universities,
						seats of learning, down to the common schools of Poland, 
						were broken up, their funds taken from them, and every vestige worth removing,
						transferred to the halls of the Czar. Since the downfall of Poland, the more spirited of
						her people havew been wanderers; too proud to wear the chains of slavery on their native
						soil. A great many of her literati fled to Paris, where they or their descendants still
						live. From that city, during the last forty years, they have published to the world many
						interesting productions concerning Poland. "Evening Hours of a Pilgrim," the very title
						of which touches the heart, is a work of peculiar interest. It gives. much information
						concerning the former condition of Poland, especially in the time of Poniatowski. I do
						not know the author of this work; it was published without his name. The lectures of
						Mickiewiczs on Slavonic literature, delivered at Paris, in the French language, and
						afterward published in German, at Leipsic, are full of thought, and glow with
						enthusiasm. Their author was a bold orator and a true poet. He fondly believed in the
						revolution of the world, which would restore his wronged country to her legitimate
						rights, and unite all the Slavonic nations under a free government. He made use of this
						beautiful metaphor; "There will yet be a torch that shall illumine the world, of which I
						am but a spark now falling to the ground." But it is in: purely poetical creation that
						Mickiewiczs shows his full power His "Sir Thadeus" is a work of great beauty: and he is
						also the author of some smaller poems of a very high order. But in poetry he is not a
						prolific writer; indeed, it might almost be stated as a rule, that the best poets
						produce the least poetry; at least; good poetry, compared with such as is "hated by gods
						and  men," bears but a small proportion to it. Pebbles are
						plenty, diamonds are rare. Count Krazinski, however, is considered by many their
						greatest poet. He has the ethereal mystical power of Shelley, combined with the
						passionate fire of Byron; indeed, by some he is considered not inferior to these master
						spirits. There are a number of other poets still living, too many, indeed, to notice
						separately, some of whom have a highly cultivated genius. Their songs are wild and
						daring, or sweet and subdued, as alternately they sing of their once happy, but now
						unfortunate country. But the echo of their strains will soon die away; and Polish poetry
						cease to have a living voice.

					Finland, as being a considerable portion of the Russian Empire, may claim our attention
						a moment. The Finns are not of Slavonic blood; they are supposed, by many, to be the
						same as the Phinni mentioned by Ptolemy, or the Fenni noticed by Tacitus. They are a brave and hospitable people, but grave and
						unsocial. Their popular education is in a low state, yet almost every one studies music
						and poetry. Their poets wear the mythic robes of Ossian, and their music resembles the
						ancient Gaelic, or that of the early Welsh; but they can scarcely be said to have a
						recorded literature. Their greatest poem, or collection of poems--it is difficult to say
						which--is an epic, entitled Kallawalla. It has been translated into
						English, French, and German, and I believe into the Swedish language. It is from this
						poem, as some have thought, that Longfellow caught the idea of his Hiawatha. Kallawalla sings the legends of the Finnish race, and Hiawatha the
						traditions of the North American Indians. That the legends and traditions of a rude
						people, though inhabiting  different countries, when their
						circumstances are alike, might resemble, is highly probable; yet there are but few
						coincidences between the Finns and our Indians. From the strong resemblance between the
						two poems, not only in form and spirit, but in many of the incidents, and the frequent
						similarity of thought and sentiment, it seems highly probable that Professor Longfellow
						took a lively hint from the Finnish epic. Though Longfellow worthily wears the poetic
						wreath, yet he is too much of a scholar and too devoted to books to be a thoroughly
						original poet. Not that a man can be too learned to be a poet, yet his genius must bear
						a due proportion to his learning, else he will take thought at second hand and
						unconsciously become a copyist. This is precisely the case with the author of Hiawatha;
						his genius is covered up in his learning; he has not sufficient force to assimilate it,
						and thus make it his own, or to shake its influence from his mind. The author of
						Kallawalia is unknown. It has been sung during many generations at the fireside of the
						Finn, and chanted in the field to lighten his labor. Indeed, it has floated in tradition
						for ages, until it was gathered up by European scholars, or some modern Pissistratus
						perhaps, and put in its present shape. This renders its authenticity certain, but leaves
						the name of its author a mystery forever.

					We will now notice some of the charcteristics of Slavonic popular poetry, and also give
						a few specimens. The monuments of a nation's muse generally exist in their epics,
						dramas, histories; these are read by students, scholars, and critics; but the living and
						flowing poetry of a nation is found in its songs and ballads; these are read, repeated,
						recited, and sung  by the people. The Slavi are a singing
						race. The faculty called a musical ear is almost universal with them, and their
						cultivation of a musical taste is remarkable; and, when not at war, singing and playing
						on an instrument of the lyre kind, similar to a Spanish guitar--in Latin called a cithara, in old English a cittera, and in Spanish guitarra, whence comes the modern name, guitar--constitutes quite an occupation, and consumes much of their time. In their
						poetry they make frequent use of epithets, and the application of some of them, though
						somewhat monotonous, is indeed beautiful. To give an example --the word white is not only applicable to things, but to actions also. Not only is it used to express the color, but
						also every quality that is pure, or beautiful, or good. They would say of a noble
						action, "it is a white deed;" or if they speak of the Czar, they call
						him the white Czar; and indeed they extend the application of the
						epithet to the Almighty, calling Him the white God, as we would say
						the Immaculate. Slavonic poetry is extremely ancient. We are indebted to German scholars
						for bringing it to light, as we are indebted to them for light upon many other subjects.
						Its morality, for a rude people, is extremely high and just, and its tones remarkably
						pure and chaste, as is more likely to be the case in northern than in southern races. In
						these respects politer nations might have learned justice and purity from the ancient
						Slavi. It is also comparatively free from superstition and those monstrous conceptions
						which are so apt to disfigure the poetry of rude nations. Such supernatural expressions
						as we find in it generally relate to the attributes of the Supreme  Being, or to the missions of angels, which are pleasing to the most
						enlightened minds. The belief, however, in the foreboding of dreams prevails to some
						extent. Indeed, but few persons arise entirely above such influences; the reason
						condemns them, but a doubt will still linger in the sentiments. There is a prevailing
						cast of melancholy in the Russian songs, and in the tone of their national music. The
						origin of their popular tunes is as deeply hidden in the past as the sources of their
						poetry. They are rich and varied, and are much admired by cultivated musicians. The
						pensiveness which pervades his songs appears in singular contrast with the generally
						cheerful disposition and rugged character of the hardy Russ. And as warlike as the
						Russians are, we yet find but few war songs in their poetry; nor are they remarkable for
						their fire or force when they do occur. The following "Song of the Haidamack" is a fair
						specimen. It is expressive of the Russian's hatred for the Pole. Haidamack is a name
						given to the Russian peasant:

					
						SONG OF THE HAIDAMACK.
						
							Gladly would I to the war--
							To the war so full of prey;
							Pleasure of the Haidamack,
							But the steward bids me stay!
						
						
							Gladly to the merry dance,
							Would I to the gusli play,
							Pleasure of the rosy maid;
							But the steward bids me stay!
						
						
						
							Gladly would I hunting go
							With my hounding dog away,
							Pleasure of the noble youth,
							But the steward bids me stay!
						
						
							But, farewell, thou rosy maid,
							Quickly, sabre, to thy goal,
							Mount thy charger Haidamack,
							Perish may the haughty Pole!
						
					
					Neither are elegiac pieces common in Slavonic poetry. The following elegy, however, on
						a murdered youth, is supposed to date as early as the six-teenth century:

					
						ELEGY ON A MURDERED YOUTH.
						
							Oh, thou field, thou green and level field,
							Oh, thou plain, so far and wide around,
							Pleasing field, dressed up with everything--
							Everything--with sky-blue flowers so small;
							Fresh thy verdure, and thy blushes fledged,
							But defaced by one thing--only one!
						
						
							In thy very middle stands a tree;
							On that tree a young grey eagle sits;
							He sucks the raven's heart-blood glowing hot,
							Drenches with it, too, the moistened earth.
							Ah, black raven, youth so good and brave,
							Thy destroyer is the eagle grey I
						
						
							Not a swallow can more fondly cling--
							Hovering cling, unto her soft, warm nest,
							Than the mother to her murdered son.
							And her tears flow like the rushing stream,
							And his sister's like the murmuring rill;
							Thus, in showers, the tears of love fall down!
						
					



					
					The following touching little piece, entitled "The Dove," may also rank under the
						present division :

					
						THE DOVE.
						
							On an oak tree sat,
							Sat a pair of doves;
							And they heart to heart
							Tenderly embraced.
						
						
							On them suddenly
							Darted down a hawk;
							One he seized and tore,
							Tore the little dove;
							With his feathered feet,
							Soft blue little dove;
							And he poured his blood
							Streaming down the tree;
							Feathers too he strewed
							Wide around the lea;
							High away the down
							Floated on the air.
						
						
							Ah, how wept and wept,
							Ah, how sobbed and sobbed,
							The tender doveling then
							For her little dove!
						
						
							Spake the light young hawk
							To the little dove:
							"Weep not, weep not so,
							Tender little bird!
							O'er the sea away--
							O'er the far blue sea,
							Flocks of other doves
							I will drive to thee;
						
						
						
							From them choose thee one,
							Choose one soft and blue,
							With his feathered feet,
							Little dove for you!"
						
						
							Said the doveling then,
							To the light young hawk:
							"Villian, fly thou not
							O'er the far blue sea,
							Flocks of other doves
							Drive not here to me;
							Of all the flocks of doves,
							Of all beyond the sea,
							The father of my little ones
							Alone can comfort me!"
						

					The song of the Post Boy is highly characteristic of the rugged Russian and the
						cheerless climate. Imagine him in the depths of a Russian winter, scaling the snow-clad
						mountain; in the wild forest; through the keen air; while a few stray sunbeams glitter
						on the snow they can not melt, chanting the following strain:

					
						SONG OF THE POST BOY.
						
							Ah, thou bright sunlight--
							Bright and red sunlight,
							O'er the mountain high,
							Shining through the oak,
							Warm the post boy's heart,
							Warm, oh, warm me, sun,
							And not me alone,
							But my maiden, too!
						
						
							Ah! thou maiden dear,
							Fairest, dearest child;
							Thou my lovely maid,
							Mild and sweet to me!
						
						
						
							Black those brows of thine,
							Black thy winning eyes,
							And thy lovely face,
							All so round and bright,
							Without painting red,
							Without painting white!
						
						
							To thy girdle rolls
							Many a flowing lock;
							And thy voice is sweet,
							Full of gentle talk!
						

					In the collections of Slavonic poetry to which I have had access, I do not find a
						single drinking song.
					Some of them, however, allude to the vine in rather merry terms. The Russians are known
						to be a sober, hardy people; yet, as every poetic literature of which I have any
						knowledge has something inspired by the wine-cup, it would seem highly probable that the
						Russian did not stand as an exception so remarkable. Bacchanalian songs really disfigure
						Greek and Roman poetry; and the German, French, and English are not without serious
						faults in this respect. It is a subject well enough when delicately managed, but in the
						poet's hands very liable to be abused.
					The love of the dead appears to be a strong trait in the Slavonic character. The
						following piece, although it sounds very Germanike, is characteristic of the melancholy
						Slavi. It is difficult in these specimens, to always employ rhyme and exactly preserve
						the sense, yet it will be attempted in some of the following ing pieces:


					

					
						THE DEAD LOVE.
						
							I sought the dark wood where the oat-grass was growing;
							The maidens were there and the oat-grass were mowing;
							And I called to those maidens: "Now, say, if there be
							The maiden I love 'midst the maidens I see!"
						
						
							And they sighed as they answered: "No, no; alas, no;
							She was laid in the tomb just one week ago."
							"Then show me the way my footsteps must tread
							To reach the dark chamber where slumbers the dead!"
						
						
							"The path is before thee, her grave will be known
							By the rosemary wreathes her companions have thrown."
							"And where is the church-yard, whose newly-made heaps
							Will point out the bed where the blessed one sleeps!"
						
						
							I turned, and with heart-chilling terror I froze,
							As a newly-made grave in my pathway arose;
							And I heard a low voice, but it audibly said:
							"Disturb not, disturb not, the peace of the dead!"
						
						
							"Who treads on my grave? what footsteps have swept
							The dew from the bed where the weary one slept?"
							"Oh, maiden, my maiden, speak not thus to me,
							My presents were once not unwelcome to thee!"
						
						
							"Thy presents were welcome, but none could I save,
							Not one could I bring with me into the grave;
							Go, then, to my mother, and bid her restore
							To thy hands every gift which I valued before!"
						
						
							"Then cast the gold ring in the depths of the sea,
							That eternity's peace may be given to me;
							And sink the white 'kerchief, deep, deep in the wave,
							That my head may repose undisturbed in the grave!"
						

					The next is a little piece bearing the same title, which, I think, must be regarded as
						beautiful. The ~g'  reader should remember what was said
						about the word white--that it meant not only the color, but also every
						thing that is good, pure, and beautiful:

					
						THE DEAD LOVE.
						
							White art thou, my maiden,
							Naught so white as thee;
							Warm my love is, maiden,
							Can not warmer be!
						
						
							But when dead, my maiden,
							Whiter than before;
							Maiden, now I love thee
							Warmer than before 1
						

					The accumulated superlatives in this piece are faults in a strictly critical view. Of
						course, nothing can be whiter than the whitest, nor warmer than the warmest. But the
						same extravagances have been alleged against Sappho and Shakespeare, and indeed can be
						pointed out in most of our standard poets. The head may detect such errors, but the
						heart forgives them.

					Love is the great element in Slavonic poerty, as it is, indeed, in the poetry of all
						the nations of the earth. Love--nothing so laughed at, yet nothing so wept over; nothing
						so ridiculed, yet nothing so obeyed; nothing so gentle yet nothing so terrible; why
						wonder, then, since it can move every other passion, that love is the master key to
						poetry. Strong men and proud women may say what they will--he conquers them, and they
						obey him. The Russian, with all his ruggedness, is delicate in love. In literature their
						love-songs are less offensive with grossness  of passion
						than perhaps those of almost any other nation. Greece, the politest of ancient nations,
						and France of modern, fall far below Russia in this respect. There is less ideality in
						the Russian's love than in the Grecian or German, but his affection in more
						self-sacrificing to the object beloved. The following verse expresses a pure and noble
						sentiment. It should be mentioned, first, however, that the Asiatic custom, by which the
						parents dispose absolutely of their children in marriage, prevails throughout the
						Slavonic nations. A Russian daughter, wherever her love might be placed, would not
						presume to marry against her parents' discretion. This verse expresses the lover's
						advice to his beloved after she is betrothed to another, in accordance with parental
						authority:

					
						
							Weep not, weep not, oh, sweet maid;
							Choose, oh, choose another love.
							Is he better? Thou l't forget me;
							Is he worse? Then think of me--
							Think of me, sweet one, and weep!
						

					The following, which describes a parting under similar circumstances, it appears to me,
						must be regarded as a beautiful poem. It is impossible to adapt rhyme, in this piece,
						without too great a sacrifice of the thought:

					
						THE FAREWELL.
						
							Brightly shining sank the waning moon,
							And the sun all beautiful arose,
							Not a falcon floated through the air--
							Strayed a youth along the river's brim;
							Slowly strayed he on, and dreamingly,




							

							Sighing, walked he to the garden green,
							Heart all filled with sorrow, thus he mused:
							"All the little birds are now awake,
							Greeting, all have sung their morning songs.
							But, alas! that sweetest doveling mine,
							She was my youth's first dawning love,
							In her chamber slumbers fast and deep.
							Ah, not even her friend is in her dreams,
							Ah, no thought of me bedims her soul,
							While my heart is torn with wildest grief
							That she comes to meet me here no more!"
						
						
							Stepped the maiden from the chamber then,
							Wet, oh, wet with tears her lovely face;
							All with sadness dimmed her eyes so clear,
							Feebly drooping hung her snowy arms.
							'T was no arrow that had pierced her heart,
							'T was no adder that had stung her breast:
							Weeping, thus the lovely maid began:
							"Fare thee well, beloved, fare thee well,
							Dearest soul, thy Father's noblest son;
							I have been betrothed since yesterday,
							Come, to-morrow, troops of wedding guests;
							To the altar I am forced to go;
							I shall be another's then, yet thine,
							Forever thine, thine only until death!"
						

					Having thus shown the complaint of a despairing lover for the loss of his mistress, we
						will present the following little piece, which expresses the grief of the maiden for the
						loss of her lover. The sentiment is lighter than that of the preceding pieces. Perchance
						some inveterate bachelor--unwillingly so, no doubt-- will exclaim: "And well it may be,
						for the maiden's love is lighter than the man's." But be that as it may, here is the
						piece:



					

					
						THE FORSAKEN MAIDEN.
						
							Little star, with gloomy ray,
							If thou coulds't but cry,
							If thou hads't a heart, my star,
							Sparks, I'm sure, would from thee fly,
							Just as tears fall from mine eye.
						
						
							All the night with golden sparks
							Thou for me woulds't cry,
							Since my love intends to wed,
							Only cause another maid
							Richer is than I!
						

					Nor can this piece rank very high as a composition. It is too much elaborated. The
						heart utters its grief in the most simple and direct language. It never runs after
						comparisons. The tone of the piece sounds far more like the song of a lover in his
						closet than the deep murmur of an injured maiden's heart.
					The following poem is very plaintive, and fondly expresses the uneasy longing of the
						love-stricken one:

					
						ABSENT LOVE.
						
							Winds are blowing, howling,
							Trees are bending low;
							Oh, my heart is aching,
							Tears in streamlets flow!
						
						
							Days I count with sorrow,
							And no end appears,
							But my heart is lightened
							When I'm shedding tears!
						
						
							Tears the heart can lighten,
							Happy make it not,
							But one blissful moment
							Ne'er can be forgot!
						
						
						
							On the lea so sandy--
							Dry, dew-thirsty lea,
							Oh, without my lover
							Life is dark to me
						
						
							Where, dark-browed, beloved one,
							Where, oh, mays't thou be!
							Come, oh, see, and wonder
							How I weep for thee!
						
						
							I would fly to thee, love,
							But no wings have I;
							Withered, parched, without thee
							Every hour I die!
						

					But I find that I am quoting quite too freely from this branch of my subject; I can not
						leave it, however, without showing the humorous side of the universal passion. The
						following playful banter is quite pleasing:

					
						THE LIBERAL OFFER.
						
							Flowing waters meet each other,
							And the winds they blow and blow;
							Sweetheart, with the bright blue eyes,
							Looking from the window now.
						
						
							Do not stand so at the window,
							Rather come before the door;
							If thou givest me two kisses,
							I will give thee ten--or more!
						

					This piece is from Bohemia, and the succeeding one from the Vendee, neither of which
						provinces belong  to Russia, but both are of Slavonic
						origin. The following verses will show lovers


					
						HOW TO CHOOSE A WIFE.
						
							Let him who would married be,
							Look about him and take care
							How he choose to take a wife--
							Take a wife,
							Lest he rue it all his life!
						
						
							If thou shoulds't make up thy mind,
							And should take too young a wife,
							Youthful wife has boiling blood--
							Boiling blood;
							No one thinks she is too good!
						
						
							If thou shoulds't make up thy mind,
							And shoulds't take too old a wife,
							In the house she'll creep about--
							Creep about,
							And will frighten people out!
						
						
							If thou shoulds't makeup thy mind,
							And shoulds't take a handsome wife,
							She will naught but trouble give--
							Trouble give;
							Others' visits she'll receive!
						
						
							As for poor ones, let them be,
							Nothing they will bring to thee,
							Every thing will wanting be--
							Wanting be;
							Not a soul will come to thee!
						
						
							If thou shoulds't make up thy mind,
							And shoulds't take a wealthy wife,


							

							Then with patience thou must bear--
							Thou must bear,
							For the breeches she will wear!
						
						
							Pretty, modest, smart, and neat,
							Good and pious she must be;
							If thou weddest such a wife--
							Such a wife,
							Thou'lt not rue it all thy life!
						

					But with all the devotion of the Slavonic races to the grand passion, it does not seem
						that the "course of true love" runs any smoother with them than it does with other
						people, as the following Servian song will show. It should be introduced, however, with
						the explanation already made--that in all the Slavonic nations the authority of the
						parents over their children in the affair of marriage is absolute; and the additional
						remark that their authority does not cease with marriage. It seems, indeed, that the
						parents, during their lives, exercise an important influence over the families of their
						children. The knowledge of this custom is necessary to the full understanding of the
						following little piece, entitled

					
						THE QUARREL.
						
							Come, my neighbors, let us hurry,
							That we may not stay out late;
							My mother-in-law is in a fury--
							She says I broke my husband's pate.
						
						
							Well, he wouldn't mind my wishes,
							Heeding not a word I said;
							He refused to wash the dishes--
							I threw a pitcher at his head!
						
						
						
							Both were broken--head severely,
							For the head I could not laugh;
							But I loved my pitcher dearly--
							It cost an apple and a half!
						

					Those who are familiar with old English poetry, written before the age of Spenser, will
						notice many resemblances between that and the poetry of the Russians. Indeed--human
						nature being ever the same-- wherever nations have attained to a similar degree of
						civilization and intelligence, they will be found to resemble one another in their
						literature and manners. And persons of the same degree of culture generally have similar
						opinions and tastes. The upper castes of India, although we are in the habit of thinking
						of that nation as sunk in idolatry, which indeed is quite true as to the general masses,
						entertain opinions on most matters of thought and taste corresponding with the educated
						classes of Germany, France, or England, or indeed any other cultivated nation. External
						manners may vary according to local customs, and fashions may change, chameleon-like,
						but modes of thought and matters of feeling and taste, amongst the cultivated, have an
						affinity throughout the world.
					It is quite unsatisfactory to give extracts from prose works without extending them
						impracticably. From works of philosophy they would be unmeaning without the argument;
						from essays unfair, unless the premises were stated; and from stories scarcely
						intelligible, unconnected with the plot; indeed, any thing torn from its context must
						necessarily suffer much injury thereby. We must therefore be contented with the
						following passages, taken from Turgenief's "Nest  of Nobles," which give certain marked characteristics of each
						sex:
					"In her youth, Maria Demitrievna had enjoyed the reputation of being a pretty blonde,
						and even in her fiftieth year her features were not unattractive, though they had lost
						somewhat of their fineness and delicacy. She was naturally sensitive and impressionable,
						rather than actually good-hearted, and even in her years of maturity she continued to
						behave in the manner peculiar to 'institute girls.' She denied herself no indulgence,
						she was easily put out of temper, and she would even burst into tears if her habits were
						interfered with. On the other hand, she was gracious and affable when all her wishes
						were fulfilled, and when nobody opposed her in any thing. Her house was the pleasantest
						in the town, and she had a handsome income, the greater part of which was derived from
						her late husband's earnings, and the rest from her own property. Her two daughters lived
						with her; her son was being educated in one of the best crown establishments at St.
						Petersburgh.
					"The old lady, who was sitting at the window with Maria Demitrievna, was her father's
						sister, the aunt with whom she had formerly spent so many lonely years at Poknovskoe.
						Her xname was Marfa Timofeevna Pestof. She was looked upon as an original, being a woman
						of an independent character, who bluntly told the truth to every one, and who, although
						her means were very small, behaved in society just as she would have done had she been
						rolling in wealth. She never could abide the late Kalitine, and as soon as her niece
						married him, she retired to her own modest little property, where she spent ten whole
						years in  a peasant's smoky hut. Maria Demitrievna was
						rather afraid of her. Small in stature, with black hair, a sharp nose, and eyes which
						even in old age were still keen, Marfa Timofeevna walked briskly, held herself bolt
						upright, and spoke quickly but distinctly, and with a loud, high-pitched voice. She
						always wore white cap, and a white busk always formed a part of her dress." ...
					"Panshine really was very adroit--not less so than his father had been. And, besides
						this, he was endowed with no small talent; nothing was too difficult for him. He sang
						pleasantly, could draw confidently, and write poetry, and acted remarkably well.
					"He was now only in his twenty-eighth year, but he was already a chamberlain, and he
						had arrived at a highly respectable rank in the service. He had thorough confidence in
						himself, in his intellect, and in his sagacity. He went onward under full sail, boldly
						and cheerfully; the stream of his life flowed smoothly along. He was accustomed to
						please every one, old and young alike; and he imagined that he thoroughly understood his
						fellow creatures, especially women-- that he was intimately acquainted with all their
						ordinary weaknesses.

					"As one who was no stranger to art, he felt within himself a certain enthusiasm, a
						glow, a rapture, in consequence of which he claimed for himself various exceptions from
						ordinary rules. He led a somewhat irregular life; he made acquaintances with people who
						were not received into society, and in general he behaved in an unconventional and
						unceremonious manner. But in his heart of hearts he was cold and astute; and even in the
						midst of his most extravagant  rioting, his: keen hazel
						eye watched and took note of every thing. It was impossible for this daring and
						unconventional youth ever quite to forget himself, or to be thoroughly carried away. It
						should be mentioned to his credit, by the way, that he never boasted of his victories.
						To Maria Demitrievna's house he had obtained access, as soon as he arrived in O., and he
						soon made himself thoroughly at home in it. As to Maria Demitrievna herself, she thought
						there was nobody in the world to be compared with him." ...
					The current-literature of Russia was checked and changed by the Crimean war; indeed,
						during that period, not a single book of the first class appeared, either in Germany,
						France, England, or Russia. There were many books written at that time, but they nearly
						all relate in some way to the war, and of course are of an ephemeral character. The same
						may be said of that spawn of books produced by our late civil war. They are but little
						better than daily newspaper matter, and, having served their temporary purpose, are now
						quite worthless except as material for the future historian. It is impossible to write
						of current events with full information, if it, indeed, could be done with entire
						fairness. Even Thucydides did but little more than collect material for the
						Peloponnesian war, as much as his works are admired. Man is unable to rise above the
						events which press upon him, and view them entirely free from interest, prejudice, or
						passion, as he may look upon those which affected a preceding century or generation. The
						history of the present must be written in the future. Literature never flourishes when
						the world  is disturbed by wars; this fact is fully
						established by the history of the past, but it generally receives an impetus soon after
						war, or any great national disturbance. Ideas become shaken up during war, danger, or
						any intense excitement, and, after the events are past, fall into order again, and seek
						expression in literature. Nothing could have been more favorable awaken the genius of a
						people than the alternate storm and calm of the Grecian States. After the Crimean war,
						which shook the entire Eastern hemisphere, and indeed disturbed the relations of the
						whole world, a new vigor was infused into the literature of the nations, more especially
						of those so deeply affected by that terrible conflict, so singularly are the events of
						the world connected togther in affecting the destiny of man. Within six years after the
						peace of Paris, which settled the Crimean war, schools were established in Russia which
						taught the liberal and advanced philosophy of the time, and did much to spread knowledge
						throughout the empire. The works of Tyndall, Huxley, Darwin, Buckle, Faraday, Mill,
						Hemholtz, Virchow, and of other liberal writers, were translated into the Russian
						language, passed through several editions, and were circulated widely. Among the present
						novelists of Russia-- besides Turgenief, already noticed--many be mentioned. Avdeyef,
						Gontchasof, Krestovski, and Panayef; among the present poets, Palouski and Nekrasof; and
						dramatists, Ostrovski and Count Tolstoi. Their present great philosopher, and indeed it
						might be said their first, is Lavrof; and their historians, Pypin, Kovalevski, and
						Solovief. Their great stateman, during the Crimean and Austro-French wars was  Prince Gortschakof--the rival if not the equal of Bismarck.
						Daily and weekly newspapers, monthly and quarterly periodicals, have been eatabished in
						several places in Russia, eapecialy in St. Petersburgh and Moscow. Amongst their
						distinguished editors may be named Korsh, Krayefski, Katkof, and Aksakof. Besides these,
						there are many young authors rising in Russia in the various departments of literature,
						which, at this distance from them, seem rather as nebulæ than as fixed stars. It is not
						likely that this advancement of learning in Russia--at least not for a long time--would
						have occurred, but for the stirring events connected with the Crimean war. Events affect
						men more than men affect events. Had there been no Trojan war, there never had been a
						Homer; had there been no civil war in Rome, there never had been a Cæsar; had France,
						Spain, Italy, and Germany been at peace, there never had been a Charlemagne; had Russia,
						Poland, and Denmark treated Sweden fairly, there never had been a Charles the Twelfth;
						if the nations of Europe had remained at peace, no Napoleon could have arisen; and but
						for our revolution Washington would probably have remained a private citizen. Indeed, it
						is impossible to be great in any thing unless the circumstances necessary to greatest
						exist. When ther is nothing to do, nothing can be done. The architect can not erect his
						edifice without material, nor can the sculptor produce his work without his marble. Men
						of genius affect one another; and they seem to grow in clusters. Aristotle, Socrates,
						and Plato flourished together; Cicero, Cæsar, and Sallust; Corneille, Moliere,  and Racine; Goethe, Schiller, and Herder; Adison, Pope, and
						Johnson; the world has yet produced but one Shakespeare. Russia has not yet offered her
						cluster of geniuses, but if she continues to progress in enlightenment as she has
						recently progressed, the world may expect from her something far better than any thing
						she has yet produced. But she has already afforded much that is good, some that is
						excellent, though with some defects; yet it must be remembered that her literature is in
						a transition state. It has not yet passed the first poetic condition; its mass of polite
						prose literature is yet to be written, after which a more profound, philosophic period
						may be expected. It is a curious fact in the history of literature that poetry precedes
						prose, and prose philosophy; but poetry also seems to be the last gift of a nation to
						the world, as well as the first, and many believe the best. We have already remarked
						that poetical expression precedes even civilization. The poetical period begins before
						the language is perfected; as it becomes polished and full it passes into prose; at
						length, after it has become settled, clear, and certain, it is then suitable to express
						the various philosophical formulæ and the exact sciences. We do not mean to say that
						poetry and prose may not exist together, and with philosophy and science; they
						undoubtedly may, and do, after the philosophic period has arrived, and that of poetry,
						which is first and last of all. In English literature, Addison, Goldsmith, and Byron
						lived after Bacon, Locke, and Newton; yet Gower, Chaucer, and Spenser preceded all.
						Examples of this order of succession may be cited from almost any nation. Not only
						Homer,  but also Sophocles and Æschylus preceded Herodotus
						in Greece, and all of them lived before Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Ennius, Plautus,
						and Terence preceded Cicero, Pliny, and Sallust, and flourished before the philosophic
						period of Rome. Dante preceded Petrarch, and Petrarch ushered in Boccacio and other
						accomplished prose writers of Italy. Corneille, Moliere, and Racine introduced the
						period of prose composition in France; and Gower and Spenser flourished in England
						before any established prose writers, and prior to Bacon, Locke, and Newton. America is
						yet too young to afford an illustration of so grand a law; besides, when she became a
						distinct nation there was a literature in her language already formed. Indeed, America
						never can have an entirely new literature; her literature was begun for her before she
						had a beginning as a nation--before she was separated from the mother country. Yet there
						is enough room for originality in America, with her vast continent, free institutions,
						and new conditions; but whatever she may produce, English and American literature, being
						created by the same race, and expressed in the same language, must forever remain but
						separate parts of a grand whole. Russia, as we have seen, has produced her poets--some
						of distinction--and prose writers, not without merit. She has her philosophers, and may
						be said to be entering upon her scientific period. Her language is becoming more and
						more perfect as she progresses, and when war ceases to be her ruling passion she will
						take full rank in the peaceful pursuit of letters. What is to be the ultimate destiny of
						the Russian government, of Russian literature, it is impossible sto know, and, of
						course, idle to conjecture, but I  can not help but think
						that she will carry her banner in the course of time to the Cape of Good Hope. The Slavi
						bear a relation to the nations south of their territory similar to that which the hardy
						Northmen, in the earlier centuries of the Christian era, bore to the Roman Empire. They
						overran Rome and spread into the forests of Germany and Gaul, passed into France and
						England, and across to America. We derive our blood from their veins. They were a rude
						people, as rude as the Slavi ever were; yet out of this blood have sprung the best
						governments, the purest literature, and the politest nations of the earth. If the
						Slavonic race should run the same course they will but do what the Teutonic and Gallic
						have done. Russia must ultimately and inevitably be the great power of that hemisphere,
						as the United States must be of this. In her present position Russia has the finest
						opportunity to present a new literature to the world of any nation on earth. There never
						really has been a wholly new literature since the days of Greece; perhaps there never
						can be; but Russia is influenced less by the past than any other nation. Literature
						originally sprang up in the East, no one can tell exactly where or when. It ran through
						Assyria, Persia, Arabia, and all the eastern nations, into Egypt. Greece copied Egypt,
						Rome copied Greece, and the world has copied all. These two last mentioned and most
						celebrated nations have shot their influence in letters through Germany, France, Spain
						(less in Spain), England, and America, down to the present time. They must inevitably
						affect every portion of the world that comes in contact with their literature; indeed,
						there remained a slavish obedience to classic models till Shakespeare, Cervantes,  and a few other geniuses taught the world that it might be
						pleased without obeying the arbitrary rules of Greece and Rome--that we still have the
						common fountains of nature to draw from, and that, as these fountains are inexhaustible,
						we might still hope to taste of something fresh from their sources.
					But whatever may be the fate of the Russian government her learned belong to the Great
						Republic of Letters; and whatever may be the fate of all the political governments of
						the earth, the Republic of Letters will endure with the existence of the human mind. It
						has no limit in boundary save the earth itself. It began with the earliest history of
						man, and can end only with humanity. It commenced in the far East, and in the deep past,
						spread into Egypt, and continued on through Greece, Rome, Germany, France, Italy, Spain,
						England, Russia, to America; and although wars have continued, and still continue
						between the nations of the earth, and revolution has succeeded revolution within the
						separate governments, yet the Republic of Letters has marched onward in its peaceful
						career, binding together all the races of the world in one harmonious and indissoluble
						union. How temporary, and even trifling, appear the political revolutions of nations,
						when compared with the illustrious progress of letters. And it can have no retrograde
						movement; its march must ever be onward. The learned of all periods, and of all nations,
						and of all time, are members of this renowned Republic. Still may we go to the temple
						and sit at the banquet with Manu, Confucius, Hafiz, and Zoroaster of the East; with
						Soter and Philadelphus,  of Egypt; with Homer, Socrates,
						Xenophon, Pindar, Plato, Aristotle, and Demosthenes, of Greece; with Virgil, Horace,
						Tacitus, Seneca, Sallust, and Cicero, of Rome; with Goethe, Schiller, Klopstock,
						Lessing, Herder, and Richter, of Germany; with Corneille, Moliere, Racine, Voltaire,
						Beranger, Lamartine, and Guizot, of France; with Garcillasso, Herera, and Cervantes, of
						Spain; with Dante, Petrarch, Boccacio, and Tasso, of Italy; with Chaucer, Spenser,
						Shakespeare, Milton, Locke, Newton, Addison, Johnson, Goldsmith, and Buckle, of England;
						with Burns and Scott, of Scotland; with Lomanosof, Karamzin, Pushkin, Dershavin, and
						Zagorkin, of Russia; and with our own Franklin, Bancroft, Bryant, Webster, and Irving,
						of America; nor can we name a thousandth part of the worthy guests, nor have we
						mentioned even all the nations; while the feast is made richer and richer by the fruits
						of mind through all the ages; more beautiful and more beautiful with the sweetest
						blossoms of the heart from every clime; and purer and purer by the aspirations of the
						soul of all mankind. kind. A seat at this board offers a nobler ambition, and affords a
						more rational honor than all the venal thrones and high places of the earth; yea, to be
						the humblest citizen in this world-wide and time-enduring Republic, is a prouder title
						than all that kings, and crowns, and the powers of the earth can bestow.

				
			
		
	

