
   ----CITATION---- 
        Barnes, James A.. The Eighty-sixth regiment, Indiana volunteer infantry. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8210
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        FRONTISPIECE.
        
          
            GEORGE FREDERICK DICK.
          
        
      
      
      
        
          THE EIGHTY-SIXTH REGIMENT, 
            INDIANA VOLUNTEER INFANTRY.
          
          A NARRATIVE OF ITS SERVICES IN THE
             CIVIL WAR OF 1861 - 1865.
        
        Written by a Committee consisting of James A.
            Barnes, 
          James R. Carnahan and Thomas H. B.
          McCain.
        CRAWFORDSVILLE, IND.:
          THE JOURNAL COMPANY,
              PRINTERS,
          1895.
      
      
        DEDICATION.
        
        TO THE VOLUNTEERS  OF THE  EIGHTY-SIXTH INDIANA REGIMENT, 
          UPON WHOSE  VALOR, FIDELITY, CONSTANCY AND TRIUMPH,  AROSE  THE STANDARD OF
          FREE GOVERNMENT AND UNIVERSAL LIBERTY.  AND TO THEIR  SONS AND DAUGHTERS. THEIR
          WIVES, SISTERS AND MOTHERS, 
          THIS VOLUME
           IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED,  IN THE HOPE  THAT IT MAY REMAIN A
          TESTIMONIAL TO THEIR HEROIC ENDURANCE  PATRIOTIC SACRIFICES, AND A TRIBUTE TO THEIR
           HALLOWED MEMORY.
      
      
      
        CONTENTS.
        
          
            INTRODUCTORY
            1
            
          
          
            CHAPTER I.
            
            BURSTING OF THE STORM CLOUD.
            
            
              The Secession of the Southern States—Firing on
                Sumter—President Lincoln's Proclamation—Governor Morton's Call for Six
                Regiments—The President's Call for Three Years' Men—The Response of
                Indiana
              3
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER II.
            
            THE ORGANIZATION.
            
              The Eighty-sixth Recruited in Response to the Call for 300,000
                More—The Material Furnished by the Eighth Congressional
                District—Rendezvoused at Camp Tippecanoe—Line, Field and Staff
                Officers
              15
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER III.
            
            THE INITIATION.
            
            
              Camp Tippecanoe—Its Fine Location—Hard Beds—Trials
                for Hoosier Stomachs—Edible Blankets—Electing Officers—Physical
                Examinations—First Efforts at Drill—Raiding the Sutler
              21
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER IV.
            
            CAMP CARRINGTON.
            
              From LaFayette to Indianapolis—Camp Carrington—The
                Eighty-sixth Mustered In—The Blue Uniform Donned—Camp Equipage
                Drawn—The First "Hard Tack"—Furnished With Arms and Equipments—An
                Irishman on Guard—One Month's Pay—Orders to March
              30
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER V.
            
            "GRUMBLE HILL."
            
              From Indianapolis to Cincinnati—Breakfast at Fifth Street
                Market—Across the River—Covington—Ludlow—Camp
                Mitchell—Newport—The First Bivouac—Camp Wallace—"Grumble
                Hill"—Company H on Picket—Wallowing in the Ditches
              37
              
            
          
          
          
            CHAPTER VI.
            
            DOWN THE OHIO.
            
              The "Forest Rose" and the "Dunleith"—The Beautiful
                Scenery—How the Boys Whiled Away the Time—Land at
                Jeffersonville—Camp Gilbert—Cross the River to Louisville—A
                Tedious Night March—Arrival of Buell's Army—The Clamor Against
                Buell—The Eighty-sixth's Assignment—General Nelson Killed
              45
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER VII.
            
            IN PURSUIT OF BRAGG.
            
               A Real March—Its Trials and Its
                Lessons—Bardstown—The Dusty Limestone Pikes of Kentucky—River
                Water—Parched Corn—Raw Goose—Springfield—On to
                Perryville—The Detour for Water—A Forced Night March
              53
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER VIII.
            
            PERRYVILLE.
            
              The Battle—The Field and the Dead—"The Gilded Puddle Which
                Beasts Would Cough At"—The Onward March—Bivouac in Fodder
                Houses—On the Skirmish Line All Day—A
                Reconnoissance—Danville—Stanford—Thundering at the Rebel
                Rear—Crab Orchard—Mt. Vernon—A Broken Country—"Hungry
                Hollow."
              62
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER IX.
            
            THE WILD CAT HILLS.
            
              A Rough Country—A Toe Shot Off—Buell
                Denounced—Turned Back—Buell Removed—Rosecrans Assigned to the
                Command—Somerset—A Deep Snowfall—Apple
                Jack—Columbia—Overcoats and Dress Coats Drawn—Stolen
                Cheese—Glasgow
              72
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER X.
            
            SILVER SPRINGS AND RURAL HILL.
            
              A Forty Days' March Reviewed—Death of William Rose and Archibald
                Coats—A March to Rural Hill—Skirmish With John Morgan's Men—In
                Camp Near Nashville—Detail of Twenty Men for the Pioneer Corps—Drill and
                Picket Duty
              83
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XI.
            
            THE BATTLE OF STONE'S RIVER.
            
              The Army of the Cumberland—Its Organization—The
                Eighty-sixth's Assignment—Moving Out From Nashville—Its
                Position—Plan of the Battle—Colonel Hamilton Relieved—The Movement
                on the Left Suspended—The Regiment Ordered to the Right—In the Vortex of
                Death—List of the Regiment's Killed and Mortally Wounded—The Second
                Day's Fight—Bragg Lost and Rosecrans Won
              93
              
            
          
          
          
            CHAPTER XII.
            
            WITHIN CONFEDERATE LINES.
            
              A Trip Through Dixie—From Murfreesboro to Chattanooga—To
                Atlanta and Montgomery—From There to Richmond—In Libby Prison—How
                the Days Were Spent—Released on Parole and Finally Exchanged
              117
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XIII.
            
            STONE'S RIVER TO CHICKAMAUGA.
            
              Six Months at Murfreesboro—Camp Life—How the Time Was
                Employed—The Long Stay An Absolute Necessity—The Eighty-sixth Receives
                Really Its First Military Instruction—Punishment of a Deserter—A Piece
                of Somber Romance—Other Incidents—March to McMinnville
              122
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XIV.
            
            THE CHICKAMAUGA CAMPAIGN.
            
              General Rosecrans Moves from Murfreesboro—Bragg is Driven from
                Tullahoma Over the Mountains and Out of Tennessee—A Most Skillful and Almost
                Bloodless Movement—The Eighty-sixth Leaves McMinnville—With the Brigade
                It Makes a Forced March—Down the Sequatchie Valley—Crosses the
                Tennessee—Rejoins the Division Near Ringgold—A Series of Confederate
                Blunders—A Narrow Escape for the Union Army—Playing for Position
              146
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XV.
            
            THE BATTLE OF CHICKAMAUGA.
            
              The Opening Ball—The Eighty-sixth in at the
                Beginning—Dick's Brigade in Support of Wilder—Important Points on the
                Field Described—Position of Rosecrans' Troops—Waiting in
                Suspense—The Orders Arrive—The Regiment Goes In—A Vivid Portrayal
                of the First Day's Contest—The Lines Reformed for the Second Day—The
                Bloody Contest Rages With Unabated Fury—The Various Movements of the Regiment,
                Brigade and Division—The Charges at the Kelly and Poe Fields—The Break
                in the Lines—Longstreet in the Charge—On Snodgrass Hill and Harker
                Hill—Steedman's Troops Come Up—Confederates Gain Possession of the
                LaFayette Road on the Left—Final Repulse of Longstreet at Snodgrass
                Hill-Withdrawal of Union Troops—Strength of the Armies and Losses at
                Chickamauga—Estimates of the Battle by Confederate Officers—Indiana at
                Chickamauga.
              170
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XVI.
            
            BELEAGUERED IN CHATTANOOGA.
            
              The Objective Point of the Campaign Held—Arrival of the
                Eighty-sixth from Chickamauga—Entered Upon Its Duties to Defend the
                Town—The Scarcity of Supplies—The Sufferings Endured by the
                Men—Starvation Staring Them in the Face—Provisions Brought Over the
                Mountains from Bridgeport—Foraging—Consolidation of the Twentieth and
                Twenty-first Corps—The Fourth Corps Formed—General Rosecrans
                Relieved—General Thomas Assumes Command—Arrival of General
                Grant—The Eleventh and Twelfth Corps—Battle of Wauhatchie—The Army
                of the Tennessee Arrives—Preparations for the Approaching Battle—Did
                General Rosecrans Contemplate at Any Time the Evacuation of Chattanooga?
              210
              
            
          
          
          
            CHAPTER XVII.
            
            THE BATTLE OF CHATTANOOGA.
            
              A Great Battle With a Picturesque Setting—An Unlooked for Crisis
                Precipitates It—Wood Makes a Reconnoissance—Ground Gained, Held, and
                Fortified—Hooker's Battle on Lookout Mountain—Sherman at the North End
                of Missionary Ridge—Thomas Ordered to Take First Line of Enemy's Works at Foot
                of Ridge and Make a Diversion in Favor of Sherman—The Order Promptly
                Obeyed—The Lines Captured in Hurricane Style—The Unordered Assault on
                Missionary Ridge—A Private's Victory—A Battle Fought More Successfully
                Than Planned, But Not as Planned—A Victory that Astounded Grant in the Manner
                of Its Coming as Much as It Did Bragg in Its Results—General Cist's
                Account—Fullerton's Version—Bragg and Bate's Statements—Captain
                Reilly's Account of the Assault—Taylor's Brilliant Description of the
                Battle
              230
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XVIII.
            
            ON TO KNOXVILLE.
            
              After the Battle the Rescue—Through Mud and Through
                Stream—Over Hill and Down Dale—The Fourth Corps Marched to Succor the
                Army of the Ohio and the Gallant Burnside—An Attenuated Diet—Parched
                Corn and Government Bacon—An Exciting Though Amusing Incident—The
                Arrival at Knoxville—A "Sick Flour" Experience
              283
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XIX.
            
            KNOXVILLE AND BEYOND.
            
              Blain's Cross Roads—House Mountain—Lye
                Hominy—Parched Corn—A Bleak December—Gaunt Hunger, Rags and Icy
                Winter Go Hand and Hand—Christmas Thoughts—That Cold New Years—A
                Mail From Home—Strawberry Plains—To Dandridge and Back—A Second
                Valley Forge
              297
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XX.
            
            EAST TENNESSEE.
            
              The Bivouac in the Snow—Back to Maryville—A Laughable
                Incident—General Willich in Temporary Command of the Division—Again on
                the Move—Smoky Hollow—At Knoxville—On to Morristown—Back to
                New Market—Again at Morristown—Strawberry Plains—Off to
                Rutledge—The Clinch Mountains—A Scouting Expedition—Bound for
                Chattanooga—The Campaign Ended—At McDonald's Station
              313
              
            
          
          
          
            CHAPTER XXI.
            
            SHERMAN'S CAMPAIGN IN GEORGIA.
            
              General Howard in Command of the Fourth Corps—The Eleventh and
                Twelfth Corps Consolidated and Designated the Twentieth—Sherman's Preparation
                for the Atlanta Campaign—The Importance of the Grand Movement—Tunnel
                Hill—Rocky Face Ridge—Dalton—The Battle of Resaca
              329
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XXII.
            
            RESACA TO PICKETT'S MILLS.
            
              Across the Oostanaula—Calhoun—Adairsville—Oothcaloga
                Valley—Kingston—Cassville—A Three Days' Rest—Across the
                Etowah—Where the Different Commands Crossed—A Wild
                Wilderness—Burnt Hick ry—New Hope Church—The Battle of Pickett's
                Mills—The Eighty-sixth's Part in this Engagement—Colonel Dick
                Wounded—The Regiment's Loss
              349
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XXIII.
            
            PICKETT'S MILLS TO KENESAW.
            
              The Eighty-sixth on the Skirmish Line—Constant
                Fighting—Rainy and Hot Weather—A Perfect Hell Hole—Pine
                Mountain—Lost Mountain—Kenesaw Mountain—General Polk Killed on
                Pine Mountain—Captain L. V. Ream Wounded—Luke Cronkhite Fatally
                Wounded—The Assault on June 27—A Frightful Loss of Life—Kenesaw
                Mountain Abandoned by the Enemy—A Forward Movement
              369
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XXIV.
            
            KENESAW TO PEACH TREE CREEK.
            
              The Fourth of July—How it Was Celebrated—Smyrna Camp
                Ground—McIvor's Station—McRae's Hill—Chattahoochee
                River—Pace's Ferry—Powers' Ferry—Across the
                Chattahoochee—Down the River—Over to Buck Head—The Battle of Peach
                Tree Creek
              400
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XXV.
            
            PEACH TREE CREEK TO LOVEJOY'S STATION.
            
              Closing in On Atlanta—Clear Creek—A Hot Time—The
                Eighty-sixth in Front of the Gate City—The Battle of the 22d of
                July—Skirmishing and Making Demonstrations—The Battle of Ezra
                Church—The Great Move Around Atlanta-Destroying Railroads-Hood's Flight From
                Atlanta—His Stores Destroyed and Magazines Blown Up—The Battle of
                Jonesboro—The Battle of Lovejoy's Station—Sherman Withdraws to
                Atlanta—The Losses of the Campaign—Congratulations From President
                Lincoln
              420
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XXVI.
            
            REST IN CAMP—AFTER HOOD.
            
              In Camp Near Atlanta—Three Weeks of Daily Routine Duties—A
                Bold Movement by Hood—Sherman's Army In Pursuit—The Eighty-sixth Again
                on March—Smyrna Camp Ground—Pine Mountain—The Signals Between
                Sherman and Corse—The Fight at Allatoona Pass—Kenesaw
                Mountain—Cartersville and
                Kingston—Calhoun—Rome—Resaca—Snake Creek Gap—Chattooga
                Valley—Fresh Pork and Sweet Potatoes—Summerville—Gaylesville,
                Alabama—The Fourth Corps Bids a Silent Farewell to General
                Sherman—Sherman's Letter to the Eighty-sixth
              445
              
            
          
          
          
            CHAPTER XXVII.
            
            THE TABLES TURNED.
            
              Hood Marching North—A Race for the Lead—Wood's Division
                Gets There First—Elk River and "The Irishman's Pontoons"—Hood After
                Schofield and Thomas—Pulaski—Columbia-Duck River—Spring Hill, or
                Running the Gauntlet—The Battle of Franklin—Fort Granger—Thomas'
                Army Organization and Strength
              464
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XXVIII.
            
            THE BATTLE OF NASHVILLE.
            
              Two Days' Hard Fighting—The Plan of the Battle—Montgomery
                Hill Captured by the Fourth Corps—The Second Days' Battle—Overton's Hill
                Assaulted—"The Colored Troops Fought Nobly"—The Gallant Second Brigade
                Repulsed with Heavy Loss —Colonel Post Wounded—The Third Brigade
                Assaults and Captures Overton's Hill—Union Success—Hood Makes a Hasty
                Flight—Pursuit of the Enemy—A Frightful March—In Camp at
                Huntsville—General Wood's Congratulatory Order
              486
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XXIX.
            
            THE CLOSING YEAR.—1865.
            
              In Winter Quarters at Huntsville, Alabama—A Three Days'
                Scout—Living on the Fat of the Land—Trip to Nashville and
                Return—Up the Tennessee River—To East Tennessee by Rail—The Last
                Days of the Rebellion—Richmond Evacuated—Lee Surrenders—Great Joy
                at the Supposed Approach of The White Winged Angel of Peace—Treason Dies
                Hard—In the Death Struggle Its Infernal Spirit Finds a Willing Tool to Do a
                Hellish Deed—President Lincoln Assassinated—A Gloomy, Joyless
                Day—The Heart of America Wounded—Return to Nashville—Johnston
                Surrenders—The Dawn of Peace—Grand Review—"Mustered
                Out"—Return to Hoosierdom—Disbanded—The Boys Return to Their
                Homes
              518
              
            
          
          
            CHAPTER XXX.
            
            THE TWO COLONELS.
            
              George Frederick Dick—A Sketch of His Early Life—Captain
                of a Boy's Military Company in Cincinnati—His Fire Company—In
                Business—Answers the First Call of the President—A Captain in the
                Twentieth Indiana—His Services in That Regiment—Made Lieutenant Colonel
                in the Eighty-sixth—His Career with That Regiment to the Close of the
                War—Orville S. Hamilton—A Brave Man, but Wanting in Military
                Genius—A Bit of Secret History Never Before Told or Written—A Tribute to
                His Memory
              545
              
            
          
          
            Roster of Officers
            572
            
          
          
            Roster of Enlisted Men
            577
            
          
          Eighty-sixth's Roll of Honor
            596
          
          
            Appendix
            600
            
          
        
        
      
      
      
        INTRODUCTORY.
        In the presentation of the history of the Eighty-Sixth Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, the
          authors seek not their own glorification. The work of writing the part taken by this
          regiment is undertaken at the request of the members of the regiment who survived the
          hardships and dangers of the years from 1862-1865 in active campaign life. The desire of
          these comrades is to preserve for their children, the history of the service they rendered
          to the Nation in the days of her peril, and that the name and deeds of their regiment may
          not be entirely forgotten.
        It is not intended to write a history of the entire war of the Rebellion, but in
          narrating the manner by which this regiment was organized, and then formed a part of the
          great Union Army, or Federal Army as it was called by the people of the South, and then in
          chronicling the deeds of the men of the Eighty-Sixth, it will be necessary to write to
          some extent of the opening year of the war, and of the events of the years that followed.
          We must write somewhat of the organization of the entire Army of the Union, and briefly
          recount the necessity for the formation of the Eighty-Sixth Regiment, Indiana
          Volunteers.
        After writing of the formation and muster-in of the regiment, it will be necessary to
          relate something of the general history of the campaigns in which it participated, and the
          battles in which it bore an important and conspicuous part. The surviving members of this
          regiment feel a just and honorable pride in the military record of this special body of
          troops in which they performed their service, and  they have
          no less pride in the glorious achievements of every regiment and battery that was mustered
          into the United States service, and entering the field bore its part in the suppression of
          the rebellion and the preservation of the American Republic. It is felt that each and all,
          officers and enlisted men, have "a vested right" in the great glory and renown that so
          justly belongs to all.
        Notwithstanding the fact that the wonderful achievements of the American citizen soldiery
          merits the highest encomiums from all and for all, yet we as Indiana men will certainly be
          pardoned if we should in this work, claim for the Indiana soldier, and for those
          particularly who were active participants in the campaigns and battles of the war through
          which we passed, as much valor, and as many thoroughly soldierly qualities, included in
          the terms bravery, courage, daring and prowess, on the battle-field, as can be shown by
          any other State that took part in that deadly struggle from 1861-1865 inclusive.
        On every battle-field during the entire war for the preservation of the Union, Indiana
          regiments and Indiana batteries were found, and the banners borne by her sons were ever in
          the thickest and hottest of the fray.
        The pages which follow will be simply a recital of the part which the Eighty-Sixth
          Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, performed in the great drama on the theater of the most
          bloody war of modern times. It will not be claimed that this regiment did more than any
          other similar body of men in the field, but the aim is to give a plain, unvarnished story
          of the marches, the bivouacs, the skirmishes, the battles of this organization, and
          recount its hardships, its exposures, its privations and its severe trials, —this
          and nothing more.
         JAMES A. BARNES,  JAMES R. CARNAHAN, THOMAS H. B. MCCAIN. 
      
    
    
      
      
        HISTORY OF THE EIGHTY-SIXTH REGIMENT.
        
           CHAPTER I.  BURSTING OF THE STORM CLOUD.
          The Secession of the Southern States—Firing on Sumter—President Lincoln's
            Proclamation—Governor Morton's Call For Six Regiments—The President's Call
            for Three Years' Men—The Response of Indiana.
          During the winter of 1860-'61 seven of the Southern States undertook to secede from the
            Union, and destroy the National Government. Soon other States in the South joined in the
            movement and attempted to set up an independent government. The arms and treasure of the
            United States were taken possession of, and finally Fort Sumter, near Charleston, South
            Carolina, was fired upon, and the garrison, after a stubborn fight, was compelled to
            surrender. This firing upon the United States flag and upon United States soil was the
            open declaration of war against and upon the Government, and this was to be met. Abraham
            Lincoln, the President, at once issued his proclamation for volunteers, as follows:
              
                
                  
                    PROCLAMATION.
                  
                  WHEREAS, The laws of the United States have been for some
                    time past, and now are, opposed, and the execution thereof obstructed, in the
                    States of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana and
                    Texas, by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of
                    judicial proceedings, or by the power vested in the marshal by law:
                  
                  Now therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, in virtue of
                    the power vested in me by the constitution and the laws, have thought fit to
                    call forth, and hereby do call forth, the militia of the several States of the
                    Union, to the aggregate number of seventy-five thousand, in order to suppress
                    said combinations, and to cause the laws to be duly executed. The details for
                    this object will be immediately communicated to the State authorities through
                    the War Department.
                  I appeal to all loyal citizens to favor, facilitate, and aid this effort to
                    maintain the honor, the integrity, and the existence of our National Union and
                    the prosperity of popular government, and to redress wrongs already long
                    endured.
                  I deem it proper to say that the first service assigned to the forces hereby
                    called forth will probably be to repossess the forts, places and property which
                    have been seized from the Union;and in every event the utmost care will be
                    observed, consistently with the objects aforesaid, to avoid any devastation, any
                    destruction of, or interference with property, or any disturbance of peaceful
                    citizens, in any part of the country.
                  And I hereby command the persons composing the combinations aforesaid, to
                    disperse, and to retire peaceably to their respective abodes within twenty days
                    from this date.
                  Believing that the present condition of public affairs presents an
                    extraordinary occasion, I do hereby, in virtue of the power vested in me by the
                    constitution, convene both Houses of Congress. Senators and Representatives are
                    therefore summoned to be at their respective chambers, at twelve o'clock, noon,
                    on Thursday, the fourth day of July next, then and there to consider and
                    determine such measures as, in their wisdom, the public safety and interest may
                    seem to demand.
                  In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the
                    United States to be affixed. Done at the City of Washington, this fifteenth day
                    of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, and
                    of the independence of the United States the eighty-fifth.
                  
                    
                      [L. S.]
                    
                    
                      ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
                    
                    Signed: 
                      By the President. WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of
                        State.
                    
                  
                
              
            
          Following immediately upon the call of President Lincoln for 75,000 troops for the
            three months' service, Governor Morton issued a proclamation under date of April 16,
            1861, as follows: 
              
                
                  WHEREAS, An armed rebellion has been organized in certain
                    States of this Union, having for its purpose the overthrow of the government of
                    the United States;
                  
                  AND WHEREAS, The authors and movers in
                    this rebellion have seized, by violence, various forts and arsenals belonging to
                    the United States, and otherwise plundered the Government of large amounts of
                    money and valuable property;
                  AND WHEREAS, Fort Sumter, a fortress
                    belonging to the United States, the exclusive possession and jurisdiction over
                    which was vested in the General Government by the Constitution of the United
                    States, has been besieged by a large army and assaulted by a destructive
                    cannonade and reduced to submission, and the National flag hauled down and
                    dishonored;
                  AND WHEREAS, The President of the United
                    States, in the exercise of the power vested in him by the Federal Constitution,
                    has called upon the several States remaining true to their allegience, to aid
                    him in the enforcement of the laws, the recovery of the National property, and
                    the maintenance of the rightful authority of the United States:
                  Now, therefore, I, Oliver P. Morton, Governor of the State of Indiana, call
                    upon the loyal and patriotic men of this State, to the number of six regiments,
                    to organize themselves into military companies, and forthwith to report the same
                    to the Adjutant General, in order that they may be speedily mustered into the
                    service of the United States. The details of the organization are set forth in
                    the instructions of the Adjutant General, herewith published.
                  
                    OLIVER P. MORTON,
                      Governor.
                     LEWIS WALLACE,
                      Adjutant General.
                    
                      Indianapolis,
                      April 16, 1861.
                    
                  
                
              
            
          
          These two proclamations were each the first by the Chief Executive of the United
            States, and the Chief Executive of the State of Indiana, announcing or declaring war,
            the cause thereof, and calling for troops. These first calls by President Lincoln and
            Governor Morton in April, 1861, had scarcely been flashed over the wires until the State
            had more than filled her quota, and her regiments were hurrying from peaceful homes into
            fields that were to be made far more glorious by their deeds of valor, than any
            battle-field of the old world where the wars had been waged for conquest or hate, at the
            command of a despot, and by soldiers of fortune or force. From North to South, from East
            to West within her borders the sons of Indiana responded to the call. They came from the
            stores and counting rooms, from the colleges and country school houses, from village,
            town ,and city, from shop and farm, leaving all and every prospect of future comfort for
            the hardships, danger and death that awaited them  in their
            new lives as soldiers. There was then no thought of honor and glory, no towering
            ambition to be gratified, no promise or hope, of great pecuniary reward,—there was
            only the one great moving and impelling cause, Patriotism, as pure, as
            earnest, as high and as noble as ever influenced men to act. The life of the Nation was
            threatened, the Republic was in peril; it must be saved. This thought, and this alone
            brought men from their peaceful homes, and into the tented field. Of all of the States
            of the Union, Indiana had had for a score of years prior to the breaking out of the
            civil war, less of the military spirit than any other State of the Republic. It was
            wholly devoted to peaceful pursuits. Its mercantile, mechanical and agricultural affairs
            engrossed almost the entire attention of her people. There was in April, 1861, not to
            exceed a half dozen of what might be termed even fairly respectable military companies
            in the State; there was not even a professed battalion or regimental organization
            anywhere within our borders. Outside of a very few men who had seen some little military
            service in the Mexican war, which had closed some thirteen years prior to the rebellion,
            it is safe to say that we had not three hundred men in the entire State that had ever
            stood in military ranks, or had ever had a single drill in the manual of arms, and
            certain it was that there were not ten men, who even in the so-called military bodies
            prior to 1861, who had ever had a commission or rank, higher than that of Captain, and
            none who had in any rank commanded a battalion or a regiment. The lawyer, the preacher,
            the business man, the mechanic and the farmer entered the new life, as soldiers, with
            all the zeal and mental application the necessities of the day and the occasion
            demanded. With the same haste with which the companies were recruited and mustered into
            the service, the companies were assigned to regiments. These were as speedily equipped,
            and without any delay for preparatory drill were put on board the cars, not even waiting
            for passenger coaches, but loaded into box cars and cattle cars, and were sent to the
            front to engage in active campaign life. There was no opportunity to test the
            qualifications of the  men who were commissioned as field
            officers and placed at the head of the various regiments, and there was no pretense that
            the company officers were in any respect informed as to their duties, but they were
            commissioned and told that they "had it all to learn." Fortunately the men who were
            commissioned as field officers of each of the six regiments organized under the first
            call, proved by their gallantry and faithful service that they had been well chosen. In
            the calls of 1862, we had some of the officers of the first regiments of 1861
            transferred to the new regiments and they brought with them such experience as they had
            gained during a year's service. Looking back over the period of the war, and the years
            that "tried men's souls," the years when under military discipline, and the storms of
            battle, in which youths speedily developed into strong and thoughtful men under the
            responsibilities that were laid upon them, and when we compare the soldiers of other
            States with those from Indiana, our State and our officers and soldiers, lose nothing by
            that comparison. In relation to the efficiency of Indiana officers in the Army, Governor
            Morton late in the war, (1865), in his message to the Legislature said: "The duty of appointing officers to command our regiments is full
                of responsibility and embarrassment. I have commissioned many whom I did not know,
                and for whose fitness I was compelled to rely entirely upon the opinion of others.
                But it affords me gratification to state that the Indiana officers, as a body, have
                been found equal to those of any other State; that they have, upon every
                battle-field, sustained the great cause, and shed lustre upon the flag under which
                they fought. Many have been appointed to high commands, in which they have acquitted
                themselves with the greatest honor and ability, and very many have nobly laid down
                their lives in battle for their country."
          At the breaking out of the war, the United States was unable to furnish the uniforms
            and equipments necessary for an army of 75,000 soldiers so suddenly called into active
            service. There must needs be arms and ammunition of all kinds and for all branches of
            the service. These were the first essentials, and to the manufacture of these the
            Government was compelled to turn all its force and power to the neglect of uniforms and
            the distinctive badges that indicated  the soldier and not
            the citizen. Under the circumstances, therefore, it became necessary for the State to
            provide uniforms for the troops organized within her borders. Some of the regiments were
            uniformed before they left the State, others went into the field without their uniforms,
            and the uniforms were made and sent to them. There were, however, no individual measures
            taken for uniforms—the soldier took what was handed him and "swapped around" until
            he got something which was called "a fit" that he could wear. The writer remembers well
            the great variety of uniforms that were worn by the first year's troops, each State
            having a uniform in many respects differing from those worn by the troops from other
            States.
          Each branch of business pertaining to the army or military life was crowded to the
            utmost. Speaking of the activity that prevailed in every military department of the
            State, General Terrell says: "Indeed every department was taxed to the utmost; the
            duties were novel, and the officers assigned to discharge them inexperienced and
            unskilled; yet better supplies were not furnished at any subsequent period dur- the war,
            or at so cheap a rate."
          The spirit of patriotism then pervaded all classes. It was in the man who had goods to
            sell, and the man who manufactured them, as well as in the men who volunteered to do
            military service. The leading, moving and guiding spirit in all matters pertaining to
            the war, in so far as the State of Indiana was concerned, was the then Governor, Oliver
            P. Morton. It was his mind and genius that directed in the organization of the Indiana
            troops for the first call. It was he who influenced and directed the legislation that
            was necessary to place Indiana abreast of the other loyal States in those matters that
            were then vital to the best interests of the Nation. What is here said of Governor
            Morton at the breaking out of the war, is equally true of him during all the years of
            war through which the Nation passed until peace was again declared and our boys came
            marching home.
          No work for him was too arduous, no labor too great for him to undertake in the cause
            of the Union, or for the men  who had left their homes as
            members of any body of Indiana soldiers. Whether at home discharging the duties as
            Governor, or absent looking after the financial interests of the State—the Indiana
            soldier and his welfare were ever uppermost in his mind. His activity in all matters
            pertaining to the war was most fully illustrated in his recommendations to the
            legislature which he had convened in special session. The legislature met in extra
            session on the 24th of April, 1861, and the Governor in his message, after reviewing the
            situation in which the General Government was then placed, and after recounting what
            Indiana had already done and was trying to do, said: "In view of
                all the facts, it becomes the imperative duty of Indiana to make suitable
                preparations for the contest, by providing ample supplies of men and money to insure
                the protection of the State and General Government in the prosecution of the war to
                a speedy and successful termination. I therefore recommend that one million of
                dollars be appropriated for the purchase of arms and munitions of war, and for the
                organization of such portion of the militia as may be deemed necessary for the
                emergency; that a militia system be devised and enacted, looking chiefly to
                volunteers, which shall insure the greatest protection to the State, and unity and
                efficiency of the force to be employed."
          
          The legislature at once authorized a war loan of two millions of dollars, and
            appropriated for general military purposes one million dollars; for the purchase of arms
            five hundred thousand dollars; and for expense of organizing and supporting the militia
            of the State for two years one hundred thousand dollars.
          So strong a hold did Governor Morton have upon the legislature and the people of the
            State in these first days of the great civil war, that men of all political parties
            accepted him as the leader, and the State at once took a higher and stronger position
            with the other loyal States than it had ever previously had, and all because of the
            policy that was then adopted concerning the war.
          The "Three Months' Men," as the men were called who composed the regiments numbered
            from six to eleven inclusive, that had been organized under President Lincoln's call of
            April 15, 1861, had all been sent to the front immediately 
            after their organization and were testing the hardships of camp and field. It was but
            just to the men who responded to this first call to say, that although there was not so
            much fighting crowded into their term of service as there was later on in the same
            period of time, yet during their service was had much of hardship and danger. The term
            of service of the men under this first call had not been concluded when President
            Lincoln issued his second call for troops, the second call being for a three years' term
            of service. The President and his Cabinet and the members of Congress had now come to a
            full realization of the fact that the war would "not down," at the bidding, but that it
            was to be a campaign the end of which was unknown, and that it was to be of some
            considerable duration, none doubted.
          On May 3. 1861, the President issued another call for troops to serve for three years.
            This second call was for 42,034 volunteers, and increased the regular army by the
            addition of eight regiments of infantry, one regiment of cavalry, and one regiment of
            artillery, making an aggregate increase of the regular army of 22,714 officers and
            enlisted men. The navy was also increased by the addition of 18,000 seamen, making a
            total for volunteer and regular armies and the navy of 82,748.
          The six regiments organized under the first call returned home at the end of their term
            of service and found that during their absence in the field the enlistments had been so
            rapid that the entire quota had been filled under the second call. Each of the first six
            regiments re-enlisted, and before another call was issued by the President they had all
            been accepted by the War Department, and were mustered-in, and had again left the State
            and gone to the front.
          As each month passed by, the war assumed greater and greater proportions. The enlisting
            in Indiana did not stop. On July 1, 1861, only two months later, another call was made
            for 500,000 men. Under this call Indiana furnished: Two regiments of Infantry, twelve
            months' service; Forty-seven regiments of Infantry, three years' service;  Four companies of Infantry,three years' service; Three
            regiments of Cavalry, three years' service; Eighteen batteries of Artillery, three
            years' service. On October 2, 1861, Governor Morton issued another proclamation, in
            which he called upon "all men capable of bearing arms, and who can leave their homes, to
            cast aside their ordinary pursuits, and enroll themselves in the ranks of the army." He
            appealed to the citizens with all his fervid eloquence. He said: "Let Indiana set the
            glorious example of doing her whole duty, and show to the world how much can be
            accomplished by the brave and loyal people of a single State." He urged the farmer to
            "leave his plow, the merchant his store, the mechanic his workshop, the banker his
            exchange, and the professional man his office, and devote themselves to their country."
            Under these calls at the close of the year 1861. Indiana had mustered into the service
            regiments numbered from Six to Fifty-nine inclusive, and eleven batteries of light
            artillery—and still the calls for troops from Indiana and the other loyal States
            continued. Other States as well as Indiana were enlisting, mustering-in, and sending
            their troops into the war.
          On January 24, 1862, Governor Morton issued another call under a call to him by the
            General Government, for five more regiments, and says: "Let this call, which I trust is
            the last I shall have to make during the war, be responded to with the same zeal and
            alacrity as the former ones have been." The call was answered and the five regiments
            were organized.
          Through the year 1861 and into the first part of January, 1862, however, as they who
            passed through the subsequent years of the war to its close now see it, there was with
            the exception of a few battles, but little of the severity of actual warfare. The summer
            and autumn of 1861 was chiefly spent by both armies in drilling and preparation for
            those severe conflicts and hardships that came later on in the service. The winter of
            1861-'62 brought with it the cold and storms of rain and snow and sleet, and the
            sufferings of the men unused to army or out door life were terrible  in the extreme. The battles of Fort Donelson and Pittsburg Landing in the
            West, in which so many of our Indiana troops were engaged, and the severe work of the
            Army of the Potomac, began to make the men who were yet at home realize, to some extent,
            that there was war in this country, and that war meant bloodshed, wounds and death. For
            every death, however, there was someone who wished to avenge that death, and each death
            seemed to bring a greater realization of the actual value of the Republic, and of the
            importance of its preservation.
          The early part of 1862 had been marked by victories for our army both on the Potomac
            and Western fields, but the severity of the winter and the loss from disease, and from
            wounds and deaths on the battle field, had very largely reduced the effective force of
            the Union Army, so that when the early summer of 1862 came, and it was necessary to push
            the war with more vigor, it was discovered that more men must be put into the field.
            This now brings the reader to the period at which the Eighty-Sixth Regiment of Indiana
            and other regiments were called into the service of the United States. The special cause
            which brought about the President's proclamation of July 1, 1862, calling for 300,000
            troops is most fully explained in the petition that was presented to him, the President,
            by the Governors of eighteen of the loyal States, of which the following, is an
            authenticated copy from the files in the War Department at Washington. 
              
                
                  
                    THE PETITION.
                    June, 28, 1862.—
                  The undersigned, Governors of States of the Union, impressed with the belief
                    that the citizens of the States which they respectively represent are of one
                    accord in the hearty desire that the recent successes of the Federal arms may be
                    followed up by measures which must insure the speedy restoration of the
                    Union;and believing that, in view of the present state of the important military
                    movements now in progress, and the reduced condition of our effective forces in
                    the field, resulting from the usual and unavoidable casualties of the service, t
                    hat the time has arrived for prompt and vigorous measures to be adopted by the
                    people in support of the great interests committed to your charge, we
                    respectfully request, if it meets with your entire approval, that you at once
                    call upon the several States for such number of men as may be required to fill
                    up all military organizations now in the  field,
                    and add to the armies heretofore organized such additional number of men as may,
                    in your judgment, be necessary to garrison and hold all of the numerous cities
                    and military positions that have been captured by our armies, and to speedily
                    crush the rebellion that still exists in several of the Southern States, thus
                    practically restoring to the civilized world our great and good government. All
                    believe that the decisive moment is near at hand, and to that end the people of
                    the United States are desirous to aid promptly in furnishing all re-inforcements
                    that you may deem needful to sustain the government.
                  
                    ISRAEL WASHBURN,
                      jr., Governor of Maine.
                    H. S. BERRY, Governor of New
                      Hampshire.
                    FRED'K HOLBROOK,
                      Governor of Vermont.
                    WM. A. BUCKINGHAM,
                      Governor of Connecticut.
                    E. D. MORGAN, Governor of New
                      York.
                    CHAS. S. OLDEN,
                      Governor of New Jersey.
                    A. G. CURTIN, Governor of
                      Pennsylvania.
                    A. W. BRADFORD, Governor of
                      Maryland.
                    F. H. PIERPONT, Governor of
                      Virginia.
                    AUSTIN BLAIR,
                      Governor of Michigan.
                    J. B. TEMPLE, President Military Board
                      of Kentucky.
                    ANDREW JOHNSON,
                      Governor of Tennessee.
                    H. R. GAMBLE, Governor of
                      Missouri.
                    O. P. MORTON, Governor of
                      Indiana.
                    DAVID TODD, Governor
                      of Ohio.
                    ALEX. RAMSEY,
                      Governor of Minnesota.
                    RICHARD YATES,
                      Governor of Illinois.
                    EDWARD SALOMON,
                      Governor of Wisconsin.
                     
	The President.
                  
                
              
            
          
          President Lincoln did not need very much urging, nor did he deem it necessary for him
            to take a very great deal of time to consider the subject matter of the petition of
            these Governors, for on the third day after the date of the petition, he responded
            thereto as follows: 
              
                
                  
                    
                      
							
								EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON,
                      July 1, 1862.
                    
                    —GENTLEMEN—
                  
                  Fully concurring in the wisdom of the views expressed to me in so patriotic a
                    manner by you, in the communication of the 28th day of June, I have decided to
                    call into the service an additional force of three hundred thousand men. I
                    suggest and recommend that the troops should be chiefly of infantry. The quota
                    of your State would be ——. I trust that they may be enrolled without
                    delay, so as to bring this unnecessary and injurious civil war to a speedy and
                    satisfactory conclusion. An order  fixing the
                    quotas of the respective States will be issued by the War Department
                    to-morrow.
                  
                    ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
                    The GOVERNORS of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, New York,
                      New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Michigan, Tennessee, Missouri,
                      Indiana, Ohio, Minnesota, Illinois, Wisconsin, and the President of the
                      Military Board of Kentucky.
                    ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
                  
                
              
            
          
          In the light of subsequent events, it seems very strange that men who were so prominent
            in the affairs of State, both in the National and State governments, after the war had
            been in progress over a year should not have realized the magnitude of the struggle,
            which at the end of nearly fourteen months, had only really begun. The events that had
            transpired between April, 1861, and the last days of June and the 1st day of July, 1862,
            when these Governors addressed the President, and he penned his response thereto, were
            but the prologue to the great drama that was to be enacted on a stage that embraced half
            the States of the Union, and before which the people of the whole civilized world with
            bated breath, were the spectators. At the time of which we now write no decisive blow
            had been struck. True there had been much loss of blood and treasure and life, great,
              very great, it then seemed to a people that was accustomed only to
            peaceful pursuits, but the South was in arms, their hopes were high in the anticipation
            and belief that it could and would be able to set up a government independent of the
            Union. These Governors were doubtless sincere when they expressed the belief that the
            "recent successes of the Federal arms" could be followed to "a speedy restoration of the
            Union," and that it might be an easy matter "to speedily crush the rebellion that still
            exists in several of the Southern States."
          President Lincoln evidently realized more fully the magnitude of the work before him,
            than did these Governors. This is made apparent by the fact that he made his call of
            July 1, 1862, for 300,000 men. The force to be enrolled under this call was to be within
            itself a great army. Nor in the gathering of this great army was the President to be  disappointed in the wish he expressed in his reply to the
            Governors, when he wrote, "I trust that there may be enrolled without
            delay"—although the "satisfactory conclusion" of the civil war, was long
            postponed. Before the war closed Indiana alone had furnished 208,367 men. Of this number
            there were killed, or died of disease 24,416.
        
        
          CHAPTER II.  THE ORGANIZATION.
          The Eighty-Sixth Recruited in Response to the Call for 300,000 More—The Material
            Furnished by the Eighth Congressional District—Rendezvoused at Camp
            Tippecanoe—Line, Field and Staff Officers.
          Under the call of the President, July 1, 1862, and the orders from the War Department,
            the quota for the State of Indiana was Twenty-one Thousand, Two Hundred and Fifty,
            (21,250) to serve three years or during the war. Immediately after this call Governor
            Morton took active measures looking to the filling of Indiana's quota at the earliest
            possible moment. On July 7, 1862, the following proclamation was addressed to the people
            of the State: 
              
                
                  
                    To the People of Indiana:
                  
                  The large number of troops required to garrison and hold the great extent of
                    territory which has been wrested from the possession of the rebels by the many
                    and distinguished victories that have attended the Union arms, enables the
                    rebels to greatly outnumber our forces now in the vicinity of Richmond. The
                    greater part of the rebel army has been concentrated at Richmond—their
                    last stronghold—for a final and desperate struggle; and the army of the
                    Union—while fighting with a gallantry hardly equaled, and never surpassed,
                    in the annals of warfare—has, by overwhelming numbers, been compelled to
                    make a short and temporary retreat.
                  The President, in the exercise of the powers vested in him by the Constitution
                    and Laws of the United States, has called for 300,000 men,  a force deemed entirely adequate to the crushing out of the rebellion
                    and the restoration of peace and the Union of the States.
                  Again I call upon the loyal and patriotic men of Indiana to come forward and
                    supply the quota due from our State. Up to this hour, Indiana occupies a most
                    exalted position connected with the war. Her troops have been in almost every
                    battle, and have behaved with uniform and distinguished gallantry. Never before
                    has the State held so proud a place in the opinion of the world, and it should
                    be by the prayer and effort of every loyal citizen that she may not now falter,
                    and that nothing may hereafter occur to detract from her well-earned honors. But
                    while we are justly proud of the high rank to which Indiana has attained, we
                    should never forget that our allegiance and highest duty are due to the Nation,
                    of which Indiana is a part; that in struggling for National Government, we are
                    contending for our National existence, honor, and all that is dear to freemen,
                    and that in this struggle we must succeed, at whatever cost;
                    that it is the duty of every State to furnish, promptly, her full proportion of
                    the military force called for by the President, and that in doing so, she has no
                    right to dictate the terms of his military policy or prescribe conditions
                    precedent upon which such force shall be furnished. To do so, would be to
                    recognize the odious doctrine of State Rights, as it has been taught by rebel
                    politicians for many years, and which is but another name for secession and the
                    cause of all our woe.
                  I, therefore, call upon every man, whatever may be his rank and condition in
                    life, to put aside his business and come to the rescue of his country. Upon
                    every man, individually, let me urge the solemn truth, that whatever may be his
                    condition or business, he has no duty or business half so important to himself
                    and family as the speedy and effectual suppression of the rebellion.
                  Those who from age and infirmity cannot enter the army, can do much to
                    stimulate others; and I want every man to feel especially called upon to exert
                    himself, and by public and private exhortation, and by every legitimate
                    influence, to encourage the immediate filling up of the new regiments. And to
                    the women of Indiana, whose hearts are so full of love of home and country, and
                    who by their labors and contributions, have done so much 'to relieve the sick
                    and wounded soldiers, let me especially appeal. Emulate the virtues of the Roman
                    matron—urge your sons, husbands, and brothers to the field. Your influence
                    is all-pervading and powerful. And to the maiden, let me say, beware of that
                    lover who, full of health and vigor, lingers at home in inglorious ease when his
                    country calls for him to arms. 
                  Tents, uniform, arms, artillery, and equipments of every kind, will be
                    furnished at the various camps as fast as required. Commanders of  the camps will be promptly appointed, and every
                    facility afforded for recruiting and providing for the troops.
                  The period of enlistment will be for "three years or during the war," and the
                    terms and mode of organization will be pointed out in order to be issued in a
                    day or two by the Adjutant General.
                  
                    OLIVER P. MORTON,
                      Governor of Indiana.
                    
                       Executive Department, Indianapolis,
                      July 7, 1862.
                    
                  
                
              
            
          
          The first regiments organized under this proclamation were formed and had gone into the
            field by the close of the month, July, when immediately, the second assignment under the
            call was made, and by the close of the first week of August, 1862, the camps in each of
            the several districts were again alive with men, and the work of organization of new
            regiments was being carried on with as much zeal as at any previous time since the
            breaking out of the war.
          Indiana in this call did as she had done in all of the previous calls, she voluntarily
            furnished more than her quota. Under the call of July 1, 1862, she furnished: One
            regiment of Infantry, twelve months' service; Thirty regiments of Infantry, three years'
            service; Six companies of Infantry, three years' service; Two regiments Cavalry, three
            years' service; Nine batteries of Artillery, three years' service. Each of these
            regiments had their full complement of men—1000 each.
          The Eighty-Sixth Regiment was one of the regiments called for from the Eighth
            Congressional District, at that time composed of the counties of Tippecanoe, Carroll,
            Clinton, Boone, Montgomery, Fountain and Warren, and the camp, or rendezvous; was
            located on the hills just south of and adjoining the city of Lafayette. It was an
            excellent position for a camp and gave to the new recruit a very pleasant first
            experience in soldier life. The camp was high and dry—overlooking the Wabash river
            and valley—in plain view of the various railroads, and the stir and bustle
            incident to the arrival of recruits by the railroads, the activity and novelty of the
            situation all tended to keep up the enthusiasm and spirit of the newly made soldiers.
            The month had not passed away until each of the ten 
            companies of the regiment was in "Camp Tippecanoe," for so the camp was named.
          
            Company A was recruited in Boone county with Aaron Frazee as Captain, George W.
              Smith First Lieutenant, and Robert A. Williamson Second Lieutenant.
            Company B was recruited in Carroll county with Francis J. Mattler as Captain, John
              S. Armitage First Lieutenant, and Jeremiah Haugh Second Lieutenant.
            Company C was recruited in Fountain county with Jacob C. Dick as Captain, William
              Burr First Lieutenant, and Oliver Boord as Second Lieutenant.
            Company D was recruited in Warren county with Lewis Stevens as Captain, Jackson
              Hickson First Lieutenant, and Harris J. Gass Second Lieutenant.
            Company E was recruited in Warren county with Philip Gemmer as Captain, George
              Hitchens First Lieutenant, and John R. Moore Second Lieutenant.
            Company F was recruited in Boone county with William S. Sims as Captain, Jacob
              Palmer First Lieutenant, and Robert W. Coolman Second Lieutenant.
            Company G was recruited in Clinton county with John Seager as Captain, Samuel
              Douglass First Lieutenant, and Nelson R. Smith Second Lieutenant.
            Company H was recruited in Clinton county with Milton Bell as Captain, James B.
              Newton First Lieutenant, and Uriah Thomas Second Lieutenant.
            Company I was recruited in Tippecanoe, Clinton, Boone, and Montgomery counties
              with William C. Lambert as Captain, John Gilliland First Lieutenant, and James T.
              Doster Second Lieutenant.
            Company K was recruited in Montgomery county with William M. Southard as Captain,
              William H. Lynn First Lieutenant, and John M. Yount Second Lieutenant.
            Orville S. Hamilton, of Lebanon, was commissioned as the first Colonel on
              September 6, 1862.
            Dixon Fleming, of Warren couuty, was commissioned as 
              Lieutenant Colonel September 6, 1862, but declined the commission October 21, 1862,
              without having been mustered into the service.
            Jasper M. Dresser, of Lafayette, was commissioned as Major September 6,
              1862.
            Carson P. Rodman, of Lebanon, was commissioned as Adjutant on August 18, 1862,
              prior to the muster-in of the regiment.
            Kersey Bateman, of Attica, was commissioned as Quartermaster August 12, 1862,
              prior to the muster-in of the regiment.
            Rev. William S. Harker, of Frankfort, was commissioned as Chaplain September 7,
              1862.
            James S. Elliott, M. D., of Thorntown, was commissioned as Surgeon September 6,
              1862.
            Joseph Jones, M. D., of Williamsport, was commissioned as Assistant Surgeon August
              14, 1862, prior to the muster-in in of the regiment.
            Allen M. Walton, M. D., of LaFayette, was commissioned as Assistant Surgeon
              September 6, 1862.
          
          Such was the organization of the regiment as to the Company officers and as to the
            Field and Staff officers at the time it moved to Indianapolis to be armed and equipped
            for active service. On the first of September the regiment was ordered to Camp
            Carrington, Indianapolis, and remained there for one week. The date of the muster-in of
            the regiment as such was September 4, 1862, and the mustering officer was Col. J. S.
            Simonson, of the regular army. The change of scene from Camp Tippecanoe to Camp
            Carrington was very great to most of the men, and officers as well. The majority of the
            regiment saw here for the first time soldiers in full uniform and equipments and the
            moving of troops as they left their camps and marched out in full campaign outfit, with
            bands playing and colors flying starting for "the front." The air they breathed was full
            of martial strains, and every breeze bore to their ears the sounds incident to camp
            life. Sentries paced their beats, and received their instructions in regard to guard
            duties.
          
             The full and complete roster of the regiment is published
            with this history, and contains briefly a record of all changes that were made of the
            officers both of the field and staff, and of the line, as well as the record of the
            enlisted men.
          It may not be amiss in this connection to state that all of the Field and Staff,
            excepting Assistant Surgeon Jones, that were mustered in with the original organization
            retired before the hardest part of the service of the regiment was reached. Assistant
            Surgeon Walton was severely wounded at Chickamauga and died from the wounds there
            received. He was a good and faithful officer, kind and sympathetic in his disposition,
            and under all circumstances a gentlemen.
          Of the orginal Captains at the organization six resigned, two were dismissed by court
            martial, two were promoted, one was mustered out with the regiment with same rank, and
            one, William M. Southard, of Company K, was killed in the storming of Missionary Ridge,
            November 25, 1863. Of Captain Southard it can be truthfully said, no man was ever a more
            devoted friend than he, and as an officer he looked scrupulously after the interests of
            his men. His death was such as any soldier living might wish for if fate decreed to him
            to die. He died in the midst of the charge on Missionary Ridge when the regiment had
            almost reached the summit, and victory was just within its grasp. The shots had come
            thick and fast, the struggle had been a hard one, the troops were pushing through the
            leaden storm, cheered on by the voices of their officers. Captain Southard was doing his
            full duty when the soldier's summons came, and with a cheer to his men, and with a
            breath of love on his lips to her who had borne him, in the midst of that terrible shock
            of battle, as he received the death wound and while falling he spoke the word "Mother,"
            and his soul went out to the God of battles, and battles for him were forever ended.
          Of the original First and Second Lieutenants at the organization eight were promoted;
            eight resigned; two were dismissed; one, Second Lieutenant James T. Doster, of Company
            I, died; and one, First Lieutenant George W. Smith, of Company A, was killed in the first day's engagement at Stone's River, December 31,
            1862.
        
        
          CHAPTER III.  THE INITIATION.
          Camp Tippecanoe—Its Fine Location—Hard Beds—Trials for Hoosier
            Stomachs —Edible Blankets—Electing Officers—Physical
            Examinations—First Efforts at Drill—Raiding the Sutler.
          The separation of friends was much the same in all places and at all times for the
            soldier when called to duty in the field during our late war. There was always a strong
            probability that this separation was final. This probability of never again meeting
            these friends embittered the parting more than one can tell, and whatever the sense of
            duty of offering one's service to his torn, distracted, and bleeding country all were
            loth to separate from those whom they held dearest—dearer than life
            itself—when that separation was quite possibly for all time. No one feeling the
            ties of kinship, the love for wife and children, for brothers and sisters, or love and
            reverence for parents, or that tender emotion of the lover for his sweet-heart will deny
            that it was to him a most severe and terrible trial, and cost him many a pang and
            prolonged heartache.
          On entering Camp Tippecanoe each man was wide awake to take observations concerning his
            new life. The high rolling ground and its superior drainage made it a splendid location
            for a military camp. The sheds used for sleeping purposes were mere temporary
            structures, built of undressed boards from the saw mill. The camp in general was very
            scantily furnished with the most necessary articles for convenience or comfort. The
            bunks were not even supplied with straw.
          
             Some of the seeming hardships which will be here related
            probably the more staid and dignified historians would scarcely pause to notice, much
            less to chronicle, but they are told that our children may learn and know of them. They
            were trivial ones, no doubt, yet life is made up of little things, and subsistence is
            one of the indispensable things in existence, and quite as necessary to the newly
            recruited soldier as to any other class, for next to an infant the average raw-recruit
            is among the most helpless of beings. It is reasonable to believe that the conditions
            which are here delineated had no little effect in undermining and ruining the health of
            many who, under more favorable circumstances, might have made fairly serviceable
            soldiers. The utter repulsion of food caused by these conditions so far weakened
            digestion in many a sturdy lad as to sow the seeds of disease, for the elements of
            weakness caused by the repugnance to food ultimately produced camp-diarrhœa, and
            probably still more frequently caused that condition of mind known as nostalgia, or
            home-sickness, which of all things most completely destroyed the usefulness of a man as
            a soldier while still leaving him in possession of a fair portion of his faculties and
            physical powers. But it frequently went much farther than this; it robbed him of
            strength and made him a physical wreck, and it often so completely unnerved him mentally
            that he would cry like a child at the bare mention of home or friends. This condition of
            body and mind was frequently brought about by the great shock to the system of the young
            men when they had to endure unexpected hardships and extremely nauseating rations, as at
            Camp Tippecanoe, where it was expected everything in the line of eatables to be both
            clean and palatable. This statement of the origin of disease and home-sickness may seem,
            to the inexperienced, to be a strong one and rather far fetched, but having witnessed
            the deep disgust and utter loathing of food by, at least, apparently healthy young men
            immediately almost upon arriving in camp, it is believed this statement is not
            overdrawn. Most of the old soldiers who read this can bear witness that the picture here
               given is not too highly colored nor
            stated in too strong terms. The trials which are imposed on one changing from a civil
            life to that of a soldier are not, and cannot be appreciated by any one who has never
            made the change and who never experienced the privations incident thereto.
          Going into camp at LaFayette, so near home and friends, surrounded by all things
            necessary to make one comfortable and cheerful many did not consider it as soldiering
            but rather as picnicing. Here all were to have a good time when once they got inured to
            camp life. It was to be a joyous prelude to the more arduous duties of the campaigning
            that was to come when they were thoroughly drilled and fitted for the field of action.
            And so it was in many respects, a very good time if all could have accepted it as such,
            although there were some bitter doses. Many thought they would live fine, drill a little
            for exercise and that the change would be so little that in all essential things it
            would not be unlike home life.
          The realizations of these astounding changes at once aroused the perceptive faculties
            to great activity. It set thoughts afoot—a running, as it were, and the boys
            pondered much upon their situation and wondered what would come next. They reasoned in
            regard to future developments that if there was such a marked difference between their
            conception of camp-life and camp-life as found here under the most favorable
            circumstances, what bewildering and astounding changes in camp-life and campaigning
            would be presented when once ushered into the field of active duties in the enemy's
            country. There where the real rather than the imaginary trials are met face to face,
            where hardships, privations, and suffering from the vicissitudes of heat and cold are
            extremely oppressive, where death stalks by his side and and that continually there and
            there only can be witnessed the great trials of the soldier, and there only can his
            heroism and the extent of his offering on the altar of his country be understood and
            fully appreciated. These thoughts came with great force and suggested the thought: What
            next? True they had volunteered in the service at the call of their  country with the determination to do their full duty. It was however, never
            supposed that it would add to the danger of probable death by a rebel bullet, the pangs
            of starvation in a country so overflowing with all the necessaries of life as in the
            Northwestern States, and in a country so traversed and intersected by railroads as both
            the North and the South furnishing such ample means for transportation of these
            necessaries. Their minds became greatly excited and the more they gave wing to their
            imagination the more excited they became. They could not unravel the mystery of the
            future, or tear aside the veil which hid from view coming events. It was well they could
            not. They had but to do their duty and bide their time.
          In referring to the hardships of diet in Camp Tippecanoe it is not meant to insinuate
            that the Commissary of Subsistence of the camp failed to do his full duty in furnishing
            rations. All certainly had plenty to eat, indeed, much that none wanted, and yet ate
            it—reluctantly it is true, but ate it all the same. There was plenty of bread and
            meat and an abundance of good water. The bread was fairly good baker's bread. The meat
            was excellent. What then was the trouble, may be asked. But the difficulty of
            mastication and deglutition were not directly referable to the quality of the bread or
            meat, or any of the solid foods issued, nor were they occasioned by the quality of the
            drinks pure and simple. The malignant imp that presided over the appetite and almost
            defeated the plan of subsistence was not in any of these articles originally, but it was
            over and in all of these before they were finally and fully prepared for the palate. It
            ruled in camp everywhere—that is in Camp Tippecanoe. To be more explicit, the
            different companies of the Eighty-sixth upon their arrival in camp had issued to them a
            lot of coarse white hairy blankets, the like of which had never been seen before or
            since. They could hardly be called woolen, but were composed of coarse stiff hairs which
            were ever ready upon a touch to desert their place in the original fabric and cling with
            wonderful tenacity to the place of their adoption as designated by the accidental touch.
            In these blankets the boys  stood guard at night. They
            threw them around their shoulders in the chill of cool evenings; they slept in their
            bunks wrapped in them, and consequently they were literally covered from head to foot
            with these foul, unsightly hairs. Like the effects of original sin they were ever
            present. Clothing was covered with them; nose, eyes, mouth, and ears were filled with
            them. An hundred Esaus spat and sputtered from morning until night, and from night until
            morning again to free their mouths of these persistent abominations, and they came far
            short of success. There were few or no vessels yet provided which could be used for
            transferring the rations from the regimental commissary department to the company
            quarters. Therefore these blankets came readily into use; for rations we had to have.
            Thus at a very early date there was a very general and liberal admixture of these
            blanket hairs with all rations drawn to be used by the companies. But there was never a
            hair missed. The crop was an unfailing one, and there was always on hand an abundant
            supply. By this double use of the blankets the hairs were generously and even copiously
            distributed everywhere; no place or person was slighted. The bunks were full of them;
            the rude tables were festooned with them; the bread was dressed and robed with them; the
            meat was duly apparaled with the fashionable garb of the day and consequently was well
            covered with coarse white hairs. They invaded the sugar; tin plates were ornamented and
            embellished in various designs by these long, stiff, tickling, unwelcome nauseating
            hairs. Tin coffee-cups were likewise wreathed and fringed in fantastic dressings with
            them. In short, not a drinking or cooking utensil or vessel of any kind could be found
            about the company quarters of that camp but what was fully decorated with these white
            robed conquerors. With a persistence that seemed born of intelligence they were ever
            present—conquering time and space and the palates of hundreds of sturdy lads and
            strong men, showing no favors to any. Yet they taught a good lesson: they were like true
            soldiers always at the front and every ready to perform their full duty. The boys were
            at first disgusted, then  angry, then both disgusted and
            angry, then disgusted, angry, and sick, for the gorge of every man did not fail to rise
            in rebellion against such treatment, as every well-fed, well-treated, and cultivated
            stomach should do. Yet this or a similar experience may have in one sense been necessary
            and beneficial in proving the boys' stomachs and preparing them for that which was to
            come, for although these constituted their last and only ration of edible blankets they
            suffered many hardships and sore trials of the stomach and palate during their term of
            service. This was, however, their worst and most trying experience of the palate while
            they remained in camp at LaFayette.
          After their arrival in camp the boys were called up for examination and acceptance or
            rejection by the examining surgeons. This was soon completed. Some few were rejected who
            were really very anxious to go to the front and serve their country. The physical
            defects on account of which they were rejected were not in most cases marked ones so as
            to be noticeable by non-professionals, and the rejected ones were much crest-fallen
            because of their rejection, and declared that they were better men physically, that they
            were healthier, stronger, and more capable of enduring fatigue, exposure, and every
            manner of hardships than others of their comrades who were accepted. Some few even went
            so far as to make a request of the surgeons to accept them and again failed. The
            surgeons were the autocrats of the occasion and their decision was final. But generally
            the boys of the Eighty-sixth were a robust and sturdy lot of Hoosiers —composed of
            young men accustomed to physical exercise and to labor either upon the farm or at some
            trade, mostly of fine form and fine fibre and of as good nerve and muscle as the Western
            country could produce. Therefore a slight examination was sufficient to satisfy the
            surgeons that they were good for any ordinary or reasonable service of camp or field
            with proper care, training and handling to inure and accustom them to the diet, duties,
            and habits of a soldier's life.
          Soon after the men were accepted by the examining surgeons  they were called out upon the drill ground to go through the form of the election of
            officers. It was but a mere form as the whole thing was set up, cut and dried, as is
            said in politics. Of course there were some who were disappointed, but with a
            commendable spirit of patriotism there was but little grumbling. Some of the best men in
            the different companies were undoubtedly defrauded of their rights and had to receive
            orders from those who were in every way their inferiors as soldiers and as men. But in
            no particular did these defrauded ones show their superior qualities both as men and as
            soldiers more markedly than by their orderly conduct and quiet submission, and their
            prompt obedience to all orders and their readiness for every duty.
          After being passed by the surgeons as being physically capable and suitable for the
            service in, the army of the United States, and the farce of the election of company
            offiers was gone through, the boys were ordered to drill so many hours each day. No time
            was to be lost. There was an urgent demand for more troops in the field, and it was
            necessary that they should be given as much drill as they could well perform and thus be
            speedily prepared to go to the front. It was then very necessary and everyway desirable
            that the regiment should be well drilled at the earliest possible date. Accordingly
            daily drill was the order. Here again was trouble, not of so serious a character, it is
            true, as to cause the loss of life or directly to destroy health, yet quite enough to
            frequently cause vexations and very trying disputes between the men in ranks being
            drilled and the drill-masters. The yoking together of unequals always causes an extra
            expenditure of force. Here there were many unequals with varying degrees of inequalities
            of form, strength, motion and constitution—the most diversified inequalities of
            both the muscular system and of the brain and nervous system. From these arose
            multiplied jars and aggravations and as a natural consequence a great waste of muscular
            force and a rapid and an immense expenditure of nervous energy. These expenditures of
            the natural forces of the body at such a rapid rate, at a time when already greatly
            over-taxed  caused nervous irritation and "the wear and
            tear" which makes a good humor impossible. In these drills there was this yoking. Here
            was the quick, nervous, rapid mover whose mental make-up was of the same nature as his
            physical constitution, and who took in the points of drill as readily as given, matched
            with the slow and even sluggish in body and mind—whose physical nature was but the
            counterpart of his mental constitution and whom it required weeks and months to learn to
            "catch step." The long gangling youth of immense bone, great stride, and deliberate
            tread was to be drilled alongside of the short of stature, quick of step, and short of
            reach. The rapidity of stride of the one had to be checked and his step lengthened, the
            step of the other had to be quickened and his reach shortened, things to the
            uninitiated, the untrained, difficult to perform. The various natural gaits of a
            thousand men confirmed by the unrestricted habit of years was no easy matter to break up
            and change to the regular, time-keeping, cadenced tread of the trained veteran soldier.
            It was making a machine of the liberty loving son of toil who had known no master and
            whose motions had been free and unrestricted as the air he breathed, yet this very
            breaking up and training to time-keeping tread had to be done or there was an end to
            drill, and consequently of all hopes of that regularity and precision required in the
            execution of all military evolutions. The importance of keeping step can scarcely be
            overestimated in an attempt to march a regiment in line of battle, or, in fact, any
            military maneuver or evolution requiring regularity of movement and precision of action.
            Its importance is never fully appreciated by the civilian or new recruit. So it was with
            the Eighty-sixth in Camp Tippecanoe. Drill duties were a severe trial of patience. The
            short, brief word of command delivered in tones of authority by the drill-master grated
            harshly on the young American ear that had not been accustomed to be so ordered by man,
            and who still thought this to be a "free country" and themselves "freemen" as many of
            them expressed it. Not unfrequently there would be a brief and forcible expostulation
            uttered in reply to some command emphasized  by an
            explosive adjective in an irritated tone of voice and a threat to get even with the
            drill-master in the no distant future. There were many complaints made, demurs were
            entered, and protests filed, but all came to naught so far as action was concerned.
            Drill progressed much the same as though no complaints had been made. The cry by loud
            voiced sergeants and corporals drilling squads here and there could be heard at all
            times of the day. "Left, left, left, left." "Catch step;" "Guide right;" Left, left,
            left, until it became monotonous and irksome in the extreme. Still the drill had to go
            on and did go on. But then it is astonishing how soon a raw recruit will tire of drill.
            He will imagine that he is worn out and broken down with drilling before he has learned
            its first principles. The Eighty-sixth were raw recruits; yes, an awkward squad.
          No events transpired in camp at LaFayette that were of particular importance in the
            military history of the regiment. In fact the organization here was but the chrysalis of
            what was afterwards the regiment—merely in a state of pupilage. However on Sunday
            night a depredation was committed which caused a flurry of excitement to run through
            camp the following morning. This was very distinctly and positively not military. On the morning spoken of it was discovered that the sutler's tent
            was laid low. His tent and goods gave the only evidence that a cyclone had struck the
            camp. The whole matter was easily explained. The Hoosiers were getting ready for a
            campaign and had tried their hands on the sutler's tent and goods. The establishment
            gave evidence of their prowess. It was evidently of pillage and had been well executed.
            The man attending to the stock of goods had gone to town during the night. Some of the
            vigilant, riotous spirits of camp had observed this and soon collected from the quarters
            others equally bold and turbulent as themselves to complete the work contemplated. Who
            organized the raid or led the raiders is not known positively, but certain it is, that
            the work was artistically done; for if ever a sutler's tent was stretched flat and his
            goods strewn to the four winds surely here was the time and place. The  loss must have been considerable. No special effort was made
            to apprehend the perpetrators of this outrage. They certainly would not have been hard
            to find had there been any well directed effort. The Eighty-sixth like most regiments
            had a few men who were ever ready for deeds of violence, and some of these, at least,
            were cool and unflinching in the face of greatest danger, and attested their courage and
            their true soldierly qualities at the head of charging columns even with their lives.
            One of the leading spirits of the raid on the sutler was a member of Company H. He was
            one of the bravest men in the regiment and finally gave his life on the field of
            battle.
        
        
          CHAPTER IV.  CAMP CARRINGTON.
          From LaFayette to Indianapolis—Camp Carrington-The Eighty-sixth Mustered
            In—The Blue Uniform Donned—Camp Equipage Drawn—The First "Hard
            Tack"—Furnished With Arms and Equipments—An Irishman on Guard—One
            Month's Pay—Orders to March.
          The stay at Camp Tippecanoe was short. The regiment was ordered to Indianapolis by
            rail. The trip was soon made and uneventful save an accident happened by which one of
            the men was pretty severely injured at Thorntown. The train made a brief stop here and
            as it started up the man by some means was hurt, though not seriously. How like
            lightning from the front where he was hurt, the word ran along down the train to the
            rear, and what a flush of excitement it created until the minds of those who had friends
            and brothers there were quieted by learning that it was not one of their friends. This
            man was the first one to receive an injury of any kind in the regiment. The remaining
            distance was speedily covered without noteworthy incident. The regiment disembarked on
            the site which was then known as  "Camp Murphy," and
            afterwards became famous as "Camp Carrington." * But the change from Camp Tippecanoe to Camp Carrington was
            no improvement, so far as the camp was concerned, and those who had a high sense of the
            proprieties of life or even a particle of modesty were greatly shocked to be so
            situated. There was no privacy whatever, and the younger members of the regiment and the
            naturally sensitive ones found great trials facing them at this place. Here new
            discoveries relative to a soldier's life were made daily. The men were placed under new
            restrictions, the camp-guards being under more stringent orders about permitting persons
            to go and come. The military rules and orders were gradually tightening their relentless
            grip and the free young American was being petrified, as it were, into the veteran
            campaigner, and he felt it keenly. Still there was little murmuring except by a few
            tough ones who wanted to go on a continuous jamboree.
          At this camp on the 4th day of September, 1862, the Eighty-sixth was mustered into the
            United States service—born into actual military service from which there was no
            retreat. The mustering officer was Colonel J.S. Simonson, of the regular army. The
            Eighty-sixth were now Uncle Sam's boys in truth and in fact and it was his duty to
            provide for them. They at once began receiving supplies of all kinds to prepare and fit
            them for service in the field. They donned the blue, with blouse, pantaloons, and forage
            cap. They received tents, haversacks, canteens, cooking utensils, guns and
            accouterments, and all the equipments belonging to the full fledged infantryman. Here
            they were very quietly made acquainted with a noted character of the war—the Union
            soldier's abomination and yet one of his best friends—the "hard tack," or in other
            words the army cracker. The first hard tack received came in barrels and were marked
            "sea * This camp had
              previously been designated as "Camp Chris Miller," but upon the arrival of the
              Eighty-sixth it was known as "Camp Murphy." It was soon afterwards changed to "Camp
              Carrington" which name it retained until the close of the war. To avoid confusion in
              the minds of the reader it shall be referred to as "Camp Carrington." biscuit." Many of the boys shouted for joy actually
            expecting to see nice soda biscuits roll out of the barrel when the heads were knocked
            in. Alas! for human expectations and human hopes. These first hard tack were "as dry as
            the remainder biscuit after a voyage" and as hard as a deal board. Butter, cream and pie
            were no more to be had save some execrable dried apple pies which "hawkers" occasionally
            disposed of in camp. These good things of the palate were no more to be thought of than
            was a sweet restful night's sleep in one of mother's feather beds.
          The arms furnished were the Enfield rifle, a first class piece for that day, a really
            good serviceable gun, not easily got out of order, and one which the regiment retained
            throughout its term of service. As soon as the arms and accouterments were received at
            the arsenal and the men marched back to camp, came the examination of the implements of
            warfare. It was an inspection more extensive, more rigid and thorough than any inspector
            ever gave them subsequently. There arose at once a discussion of the merits of the gun
            which was continued so long as there was one who was not fully satisfied. Nothing thus
            far had created so much interest in camp as these instruments of death. The motives that
            had actuated the men and caused their enlistment now seemed apparent. With some, these
            guns were to be the agents in their hands to help save the Nation from destruction, with
            others idea of punishment was more predominant and they were to be the instruments of
            terror to traitors and rebels, and with others they were to aid in helping free the
            negroes, and to a still fewer in number they were to be simply appliances of destruction
            of their fellow man and to enable their possessors to plunder and pillage. Fortunately
            the latter class was very few in number and were usually condemned and somewhat held in
            check by their comrades.
          The various parts of the gun each man carefully examined for himself, and thus he made
            himself thoroughly acquainted with it in all the details of its parts and their
            workings. From tip of bayonet to butt of stock no portion or part  escaped the closest scrutiny and examination. Perhaps as a rule the bayonet
            came first in the investigation, and from tip of blade to bridge of socket no part
            escaped the examination—nothing was missed by the newly fledged soldier. The
            blade, socket, stud-mortise of socket, and clasp were all scanned closely and fully
            comprehended before this part of the arm was laid aside and another taken up. It is
            unnecessary to relate the details of this searching inspection and examination of the
            arm, but from muzzle to butt, lock, stock, and barrel, band and band-spring, sling and
            sling-swivel, trigger and trigger-guard, ram-rod and its groove were all thoroughly
            examined and their relations and functions noted. Of the appendages of the gun the
            wiper, the ball-screw, the screw-driver, the spring-vise, and the tompion, all were
            speedily passed under the scrutinizing gaze of a thousand Hoosier eyes and their fitness
            for the purpose for which they were intended fully discussed, as were the cartridge-box
            and its magazines, its straps and plates, and hooks for fastening belt. So the whole
            paraphernalia of the newly fledged soldier was critically examined.
          Again orders for drill had been promulgated and some feeble attempts were made in this
            direction. Now that they had their arms the boys felt that they ought to be put through
            the manual of arms, and then company and battalion drill as soon as possible. A little
            drilling was done, but it was very little as all were too busy drawing supplies and
            getting ready for the front. So the time ran on at Camp Carrington.
          A little incident occurred at this camp before the men had drawn arms. It shows the
            mettle of the Hoosier boys and that they intended to do what they believed to be their
            duty. The camp-guard had been established and strict orders given to the guards to allow
            no one to cross the guard-line except at the gates with properly signed passes. Of
            course the raw recruit thought this order meant just what it said, and accordingly
            supposed that no one was to be allowed to pass in or out over the line, be he a private
            or Major-General, not knowing that field officers were by military  rules excepted. Well, General Carrington was riding round on a tour of
            inspection and thought to ride into the camp of the Eighty-sixth. He rode up to the
            guard-line and naturally supposed that the guard had been properly instructed and knew
            sufficiently of military matters to admit him. But he had struck the wrong man.
            Attempting to cross, the guard halted him, but he rode up quite near to the guard and
            informed him who he was, and that on account of his rank he was entitled to
            pass—to enter camp at will notwithstanding the instructions from the Colonel to
            allow no one to pass in or out. But no, the guard was firm and insisted he could not
            pass into camp over his beat. The General became impatient and attempted to ride forward
            into camp regardless of the guard's threatening attitude and warnings to keep off. Now,
            came the fun. The guard quite as determined as the General seized the bridle-rein of the
            General's horse, reined him back upon his haunches and struck the General himself a
            heavy blow on the left arm and shoulder with a stout cudgel with which the guards were
            then armed. The General now thoroughly aroused spurred his charger furiously forward,
            causing him to break away from the guard and so rode into camp. This little episode was
            witnessed by many of the boys who scarcely knew what to make of it. The General himself
            was very much excited, asked the company to which the soldier belonged, his name, and
            sought his Captain and then Colonel Hamilton. All expected to hear him severely
            denounced and perhaps ordered a severe punishment for his gross blunder. But on the
            contrary the General commended him highly for his great firmness in doing that which he
            believed to be his duty and recommended that he be promoted to corporal immediately if
            there was a vacancy, and if not as soon as a vacancy occurred.
          Here too after being mustered into Uncle Sam's family the men received one month's pay,
            thirteen dollars, and one-fourth of their promised bounty, twenty-five dollars. Most of
            this money was sent home by a majority of the boys for the use of their families, their
            wives and children, or their parents and younger brothers and sisters, or to be kept for
               them until they should return home. There were a few
            however, on the other hand who were reckless and not disposed to look ahead who retained
            their money and squandered it in gambling and drink. Others spent it in supposed
            luxuries. They soon had neither money or anything to show for it, and by their
            indulgence had in a measure unfitted themselves for the performance of the duties of a
            soldier in the field. Thus the few days at Indianapolis soon wore away. Some were
            preparing themselves to be serviceable soldiers, others were laying the foundation for a
            hospital career from the first. A few spasmodic attempts at drill were made, but the
            constant hurry and rush upon the part of officers to make out requisitions and to
            receive and distribute necessary supplies prevented anything like systematic
            instruction. All felt the great need of this training, but there was so little time for
            it, that the instruction they did receive was of small practical value. The men greatly
            needed to be made familiar with the manual of arms, the company and battalion drill. The
            latter was not attempted so short had been the regiment's stay in camp. Therefore the
            Eighty-sixth practically knew nothing of drill when it was called to go to the
            front.
          Almost daily now trains would go by bearing "the boys in blue" from camps in other
            parts of the State and from other States to the front. Cheers from the train for the
            camp would make the welkin ring, and answering cheers from the camp would resound again
            and again. These outbursts of enthusiasm told how thoroughly the Northern heart was
            aroused. How the grand and true spirit of patriotism had, at last, by its fervor welded
            and made as one mighty \ brotherhood this people and bound them in indissoluble bonds
            for country, home and loved ones. Each succeeding train-load of passing blue-coats had a
            tendency to make the boys grow impatient to go forward to meet the enemy. They knew too
            that they should soon follow their comrades gone before. There was a demand for more
            troops for the field. General Braxton Bragg had skillfully turned the flank of Buell's
            command in the vicinity of Bridgeport, Alabama, and was now  marching rapidly on the most direct route for Louisville, Kentucky, with his main
            force, while another portion of his command under the noted General Kirby Smith was
            advancing upon and threatening Covington, Kentucky, and Cincinnati, Ohio. High hopes of
            the South centered on this raid. Bragg intended to carry the war this side the Ohio. The
            Northern States were to be the theater of war instead of the Sunny South. There was a
            perfect furore of excitement in and around Cincinnati, and, in fact, all over the
            Northern States. Buell was denounced as a traitor to the cause he pretended to serve. He
            was accused of being in league with the enemy, and of every conceivable weakness and
            folly; There was certainly no truth in any of these charges beyond possibly that of
            extreme caution and indecision similar in degree and kind to that of McClellan in the
            East. But there was a truth on the other side which was overlooked by the Union army and
            the people of the North in general. Bragg was in fact a much more able commander than
            the people of the North gave him credit. The truth was Bragg had played his part thus
            far with consummate skill and judgment, and had in his favor, which greatly promoted
            success, the friendliness and sympathy of a large majority of the people of the country
            through which his army was passing. These advantages permitted Bragg to avoid all
            engagements, and, no doubt, gave rise to the charges against Buell by those who were
            unfriendly towards him.
          The great excitement in the North,. and especially of the Northwestern States, caused
            the people to urge and boldly demand that the threatened cities be made
            secure—that sufficient troops be at once sent forward to defend and protect them
            from the approaching enemy. The excitement at Cincinnati was truly at fever heat and
            great demands were made by her people upon the government for aid, while the citizens
            turned out almost enmasse to defend their homes from the would-be invaders. General H.
            G. Wright was in command of the department, and General Lew Wallace was in command of
            Cincinnati and Covington, and the troops in the trenches defending them. General Heth,
            of Kirby Smith's  command, took position a few miles south
            of Covington on the 6th of September. This increased the excitement in that locality as
            a matter of course. But this was the farthest point north that any considerable force of
            that command reached.
          This was the situation in Kentucky when on Saturday, September 6, the Eighty-sixth
            received orders to be ready to move at a moment's notice. Soon a second order was
            received to move on the following day, Sunday, September 7. All was excitement now. The
            crisis of meeting the enemy seemed undoubtedly to be at hand.
        
        
          CHAPTER V.  "GRUMBLE HILL."
          From Indianapolis to Cincinnati—Breakfast at Fifth Street Market—Across the
            River—Covington—Ludlow—Camp Mitchell—Newport—The First
            Bivouac—-Camp Wallace—"Grumble Hill"—Company H On
            Picket—Wallowing in the Ditches.
          After breakfast Sunday morning, September 7, Sibley tents were struck and everything
            packed, ready at the tap of the drum to depart for the front. But the train was not yet
            ready. The day was consumed in waiting until 5 o'clock when the train rolled out for
            Cincinnati over the I., C. and L. Railway. It proved to be a very "slow coach," and many
            of the boys whenever it stopped would jump off and run to adjacent orchards and lay in a
            supply of apples. Such boyish pranks as these were performed as long as daylight lasted.
            Thus time and train trundled on together until night, when the boys became more quiet,
            for up to this time they had been in a hilarious mood, singing, shouting, and having a
            boisterous time generally. Some of the more staid members of the regiment tried to sleep
            after night came, but the attempt was vain. After a long tedious ride about 4 o'clock
            Monday morning, September 8, the command was landed at 
            Cincinnati. Tumbling out of the cars more than half-asleep the boys immediately dropped
            down upon the platform of the depot for "forty winks" of sleep.
          Weary with the night's ride the boys slept late, but at length they were aroused and
            began to move about. They went in squads to the river and performed their morning
            ablutions and returned to the station. The regiment here in a great city was at a loss
            to know what to do for breakfast. There was no fuel provided and many of the men were
            timid and did not know how to look for it. Later on the most timid man in the regiment
            would easily have found an abundance. So they stood round the depot not knowing what to
            do. Finally, however, after long waiting the command came, "fall in," "shoulder arms,"
            "right face," "forward march," and they began a slow straggling march eastward, filed
            left up Vine street, climbed the hill and finally reached Fifth street Market House
            where the good people of the city had provided for them a good meal. After breakfast the
            regiment was marched down the street in the direction of the river to a hotel, and were
            there addressed by Brigadier-General Mahlon D. Manson, who was then a paroled prisoner,
            having been captured at Richmond, Kentucky, August 30. After the speaking the regiment
            continued its march to the river, crossed to Covington, Kentucky, on a pontoon bridge
            and proceeded down the river. Passing through Ludlow, a mile or more, it bore off to the
            left and camped. The day was warm and the loads were heavy. The men had been on their
            feet almost the whole day and were entirely inexperienced in marching, and many of them
            found it exceedingly tiresome, in fact, many fell behind the regiment on this, its first
            march. These stragglers were greatly fatigued and much chagrined at the thought of not
            being able to keep up, but they mostly came in before dark. The camp here was designated
            as Camp Mitchell. The regiment now barely had a taste of marching, but many, at least,
            were fully satisfied that when it was undertaken in earnest that there was not one bit
            of amusement about it—not, at least, for raw troops. The teams were soon on hand
            and tents were put up. After supper, the  events of the day
            were discussed until "taps," when all retired hoping for a good night's rest. Not long
            after lying down an alarm was given and the regiment was called out as was supposed to
            give battle. After standing to arms for some time, and neither seeing or hearing
            anything indicating the approach of the enemy, the regiment was permitted to break ranks
            and again retire.
          The following morning was quite cool but otherwise pleasant. There was a number of the
            regiment reported sick this morning. Marching in the heat of the day, heavily loaded,
            and then lying at night upon the cold, damp ground produced internal congestions. The
            changes in food and drink caused many to' suffer with camp diarrhœa, accompanied in some
            cases with considerable fever.
          Orders were received to march before noon. The regiment was soon on the road, leaving
            behind the tents and the sick. Crossing Licking river the command passed to the
            southeast of Newport, and having marched some six or seven miles was halted in an open
            field, where it remained until the following day. The boys were now being initiated into
            the duties and mysteries of marching, camping, campaigning, and of the bivouac. Tuesday
            and Tuesday night, September 9, the Eighty-sixth experienced its first true bivouac with
            naught but the sky and stars above. The next morning was pleasant and the men lounged
            around the bivouac fires discussing the probability of a battle at this place until
            about 10 o'clock, when the regiment recrossed the river back into Covington and took
            position on a high hill just south of the town and about a half mile from it. This was
            designated as Camp Wallace. Here the boys were far from being pleased with their
            environment and much grumbling was indulged in in the ranks. These complaints became so
            numerous and vigorous that the place came to be known as "Grumble Hill." Again the
            wagons failed to arrive with the tents and the regiment indulged itself with another
            bivouac. This hill was already intrenched, therefore the Eighty-sixth formed its line
            just inside the works and so bivouacked to be ready to "fall" into the ditch and defend
            the hill to the last  in case of an attack. Reports were
            flying still thick and fast of the enemy's approach with intention of making an attack
            upon the place. Nerves were consequently on a constant strain. On the morning after the
            regiment's arrival at this camp on "Grumble Hill" it began raining and the trenches were
            very muddy. Notwithstanding the rain and the mud, every hour or so an alarm would be
            given that the enemy was approaching and the men would be ordered into the ditches,
            there to wallow in the mud. But Kirby Smith had no intention of an attack, and was even
            at that time withdrawing his forces. The nerves of all were in a state of extreme
            tension, and this with the real hardships of loss of sleep and wallowing in the mud was
            extremely wearing on the constitutions of the men. Even after nightfall the camp would
            be alarmed by the command "Fall in, Eighty-sixth." The enemy is almost upon us." At once
            the regiment would rush into the muddy trenches. If men were ever justifiable in
            indulging in profane remarks here was the occasion on "Grumble Hill." Some nights they
            would be allowed scarcely any sleep, so busy were they falling in and out of the ditch.
            Thus the men were nearly worn out with dragging up and down and watching for the
            iron-hearted enemy who was every coming in a "tiger-footed rage" to tear them to pieces
            and devour them bodily.
          Looking back now at these trials in the light of experience, all of this constant worry
            and annoyance was a great injury to the men of the Eighty-sixth. This no doubt, sent
            many a man to the hospital, not a few of whom secured discharges and thus weakened the
            organization in point of numbers, and greatly discouraged others that remained, and in
            that way did harm to the spirit of the regiment that required time to fully
            overcome.
          On the 12th inst. the tents came up. Thenceforward what little time there was for sleep
            on "Grumble Hill" was with a little better protection from wind and rain and the chill
            of the night air. The regiment had been here at or near Covington five nights without
            tents and this was felt to be quite a hardship. Later on little would have been  thought of such deprivations. By whose orders the men were
            thus bedeviled no one will probably ever know, but through ignorance or spite or some
            other equally culpable motive the regiment was most shamefully managed and mistreated.
            Some time during the 14th it was announced that the regiment was under marching orders.
            A great shout went up from the overjoyed Hoosiers who were besides themselves almost at
            the prospect of getting away from "Grumble Hill.
          On the morning of the 16th of September, Company H, Captain Milton Bell in command, was
            detailed to do picket duty for the regiment. Let the dairy of a member of that company
            tell how that duty was performed and how some of the company were employed: "The company
            (H) received orders to go out as pickets. We went out about three miles on the pike and
            stopped for the reserve or company headquarters at a fine house from which an 'old
            secesh' had been taken and left everything that we wanted to use. Our men were soon
            placed upon the line. The Second-Lieutenant, Uriah Thomas, took a squad of thirteen men
            and started on a little scout on our own responsibility. The men stripped themselves of
            all necessary luggage that they might be in the best possible trim for making good time
            if by chance they should come across too strong a squad of the enemy. Pressing forward
            at a good pace we soon covered some four miles from our reserve station and came to a
            suitable place to get our dinners. We had a good dinner and all the apples and peaches
            we could eat, as well as all the milk we could drink, something we had not had since
            leaving home. After scouting around over the neighborhood for some time, always keeping
            a sharp lookout for the enemy, we concluded to lay in a supply of something nice to eat
            and then return to the post of our duty. So we killed a nice shoat and secured a number
            of chickens and returned to the picket station. Up to this time everything had gone
            along pleasantly enough without the appearance of an enemy. About dark we feasted on
            "hard tack," fresh pork and chicken. Soon after this our relief went upon the line to do
            sentinel duty. Reported attempts of "bushwhackers" firing upon the sentinels here  after dark were made known to us and all were duly warned to
            keep a sharp lookout for their own personal safety as well as the general good. It was a
            wide-awake picket line that night. The countersign was "Blue Ridge." Some time before
            our "trick" was out one of the sentinels heard, as he claimed, some one snap a cap
            immediately in his front. Taking it for granted that it was a "bushwhacker" making an
            attempt upon his life, he fired on him without hesitation. The next sentinel being as he
            supposed somewhat more exposed than the one that fired, and more likely to fall a victim
            to the "bushwhacker's" fire, left his post and came down the line with speed of a
            quarter horse, making the brush crack as he came tearing along. Fearing that the other
            sentinels would mistake him for the enemy and so sacrifice him to their fears he yelled
            at every jump "Blue Ridge," "Blue Ridge," "Blue Ridge," until the woods rang with his
            unearthly cry. He made good time to the reserve station, where with almost breathless
            haste he related his very narrow escape. It was laughable in the extreme to others, but
            a fearful reality with the frightened sentinel. The sentinel who fired stood fast and
            nothing more was heard. Some of the boys were wholly incredulous and did not believe the
            statements of the sentinel who fired—did not believe that he had heard any one or
            anything, and questioned him very closely as to the place where he heard the noise.
            Early next morning they sallied forth to prove there had been no one there, and that the
            sentinel had fired for "buncombe." But upon going to the spot designated, to their great
            surprise, a gun was found which satisfied all but a few obstinately incredulous ones. It
            was now pretty generally accepted that a genuine attempt at "bushwhacking" had actually
            been made, but the prompt firing of the sentinel had frightened the would-be assassin
            and he had left in haste. Now, too, the timid comrade who is somewhat given to boasting
            cannot say a word in his braggadocio style without being called down with 'Blue Ridge,'
            'Blue Ridge' much to his discomforture. Before the company was relieved another squad of
            the boys went outside the lines and killed a nice calf and 
            brought it to the reserve. Thus the company was for the time being pretty well provided
            with good meat. About 10 o'clock a. m. on the 17th, we were relieved by another company
            of the Eighty-sixth and H company returned to the camp on the hill." It might be said
            here in closing this account that the sentinel who so promptly fired upon the
            "bushwhacker" afterwards became the regiment's most expert forager, in fact, it never
            saw his equal. He was, however, captured by the enemy near Rural Hill, Tennessee,
            paroled and never returned to the regiment, and was afterwards reported as a deserter.
            The timid sentinel on the contrary, notwithstanding the great trial to his nerves,
            remained in the service and finally fell a victim to the enemy's shot in the fateful
            trenches around Atlanta toward the last of July, 1864.
          The Eighty-sixth now considered itself capable of performing every duty known to
            veterans. The boys had marched; they had bivouacked; they had laid in the trenches all
            night; they had been on picket; they had performed every duty of a soldier except meet
            the enemy in actual battle and they were ready for that. Were they not soldiers? The
            company had scarcely reached camp when the tomfoolery of ordering the regiment into the
            trenches was begun again. All now knew there was no armed enemy of any considerable
            number within miles, yet the men were compelled to wallow in the ditches as though the
            enemy was in sight. This treatment of the regiment was certainly a monumental piece of
            stupidity, and can only be accounted for on that score. It seemed to be a malicious and
            studied piece of cruelty. It was the fate of this regiment for some months after its
            entrance into the field to suffer unnecessarily the most outrageous treatment, neglect
            and exposure.
          On the 19th of September the regiment received marching orders which caused a ripple of
            excitement in the ranks. To a man all were anxious to leave the camp on the hill where
            the men had been so miserable and "had to drink river water." On the following day the
            orders were more specific. They were to have three days' cooked rations in their
            haversacks and be ready to march at a moment's notice. 
            This was something definite. All went to work with a will, some to cook, some to strike
            tents, and others to packing up all baggage that should go on the wagons. All was hum
            and bustle, jest and jollity, at the thought of departing forever from "Grumble Hill."
            Everything was in readiness for the trip by noon, and the old hill, destitute of
            numberless white tents, lay bleak and bare. The men of the Eighty-sixth only waited for
            the word of command to set forward on their journey wherever it might lead.
          The men lounged about the fires chatting without noteworthy incident, until late in the
            afternoon when a sensational scene was enacted. A member of Company D, Bartley Scanlan,
            who was guarding some baggage had partaken of too much Kentucky whisky, and it proved to
            be of the fighting kind. Thereupon he became furious and threatened to shoot a number of
            officers, and did actually snap two caps at them. He fixed his bayonet and capered
            around at a lively rate. Taking a defensive position near the baggage he swore by all
            the saints in the calendar that he would prod the first man or officer that came within
            his reach. It was lively, and then it was something entirely new and refreshing in camp
            and very naturally created quite a good deal of excitement. The Colonel came up at
            length and disarmed him and quieted the commotion. For his unsoldierly conduct he was
            "bucked and gagged." This was the first case of "bucking" in the regiment. Scanlan
            afterward made a good soldier except his liking for "insanity drops."
          The regiment remained on the hill the entire day until the dusk of the evening, when at
            last came the command, "Attention, Battalion. Take arms. Shoulder arms. Right face.
            Forward march. File left;" and the boys turned their backs on "Grumble Hill" to see it
            no more during their term of service. The regiment marched through Covington direct to
            the boat landing and shipped aboard two steamboats, the "Forest Rose" and the "Dunleith"
            for Louisville, Kentucky, 
              "Down the river, down the river, Down the Ohio."
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VI.  DOWN THE OHIO.
          The "Forest Rose" and the "Dunleith"—The Beautiful Scenery—How the Boys
            Whiled Away the Time—Land at Jeffersonville—Camp Gilbert—Cross the
            River to Louisville—A Tedious Night March—Arrival of Buell's Army—The
            Clamor Against Buell—The Eighty-Sixth's Assignment—General Nelson
            Killed.
          On the morning of Sunday, September 27, about 6 o'clock, the "Forest Rose" and the
            "Dunleith" backed out from their landing, swung round into the channel and steamed out
            down the river. Two other boats carried an Ohio regiment down at the same time, the four
            boats frequently being in full view of each other in the stretches of the river and
            making a very beautiful sight to behold. As the magnificent boats steamed down stream
            that beautiful September morning, the men were relieved of all thought of camp duty and
            were consequently once more comparatively at ease. The atmosphere was delightfully
            invigorating and the sun shone brightly. It was a lovely day. The speed of the boat was
            not great as the river was quite low and care in navigating it was necessary. There were
            multiplied beauties of nature upon the right and upon the left. The rugged hills upon
            either hand forming the river's bluffs and the beautiful stream glided gently and
            peacefully between on to old ocean's briny deep. The hills from foot to rugged crest
            were variegated by the shade of wood and the many colored leaves of hickory, beach, oak,
            and the maple blushing with the early autumn tints, added their beauties to the scene.
            The light of the open fields varied according to the crops which they bore, from the
            rich green of the unripe corn to the golden stubble of harvested wheat, all encircled by
            serpentine  fences and there in turn draped with trailing
            vine and scented shrub. Occasionally there was a break in the line of hills upon the
            banks and then the landscape broadened, showing a fine stretch of country for the labors
            of the peaceful pursuits of the husbandmen. These glimpses and views of portions of our
            grand country that seemed so prosperous and happy, and possessed of so many advantages
            over all other countries of soil and climate, as well as in her laws and institutions,
            were food for reflection which led, no doubt, to many and diverse thoughts among the
            thousand men of the Eight-sixth floating down the broad and beautiful Ohio. The people
            on the river's banks, especially upon the Ohio and Indiana bank, waved their God's speed
            with many a glad hearty shout. Upon the Kentucky shore many cheered but was not so
            universal or so uniformly hearty in manner as upon the other bank.
          The occupants themselves of the boats were variously employed. As in every other
            situation in life the idler was found "upon deck" here. He scarcely seemed to note the
            beauties of nature of either land or stream, or to have a thought of home, friends,
            kindred, or the enemy to be met in the future. Others were busily engaged writing home
            to friends or loved ones to acquaint them of their change of location and the prospect
            of campaigning in other fields and the thousand and one things which soldiers always had
            to tell. Some were viewing the rainbow in the spray from the great stern-wheel of the
            boat as it dashed round and round and churned the dark waters of the river into a fine
            mist in which the beautiful bow of heaven could be plainly seen in a minature form.
            Others sat upon the bow of the boat, as it plowed its way through the waters down stream
            looking ahead as if they were eager to press forward and meet the enemy. Some of the
            younger members of the regiment were chatting cheerily together; some of the older ones
            were conversing in a more sober and sedate manner probably of weightier home matters,
            the importance of which they could not wholly divest their minds. Some others were
            playing cards for amusement, euchre and seven-up  being the
            games. Still others were throwing the cards for money-gambling. Draw poker was the
            favorite game, although others were indulged in for money. There were those who had been
            in the whirl-pool of the gambling circle and whose passion was not quenched but only
            defeated for a time by the loss of all their money. These went about from group to group
            looking so forlorn and disconsolate, so woebegone, that one might easily have supposed
            that they had just returned from the burial of their last and their dearest earthly
            friend. The more lucky were all smiles. They went round jingling the money of their
            disconsolate comrades, grinning and boasting of their luck and superior shrewdness. Thus
            the Sabbath day and the boats sped on. A number of times the boats were aground and two
            or three times they were backed off with considerable difficulty.
          Arrriving at Louisville the boats remained at the landing during the night but swung
            round about 6 o'clock the next morning and crossed the river. Once more the Eighty-sixth
            landed on Hoosier soil. The regiment reached its camping place about 9:30 a. m. and at
            once proceeded to prepare breakfast. The camp was pitched to the east of Jeffersonville
            and was designated Camp Gilbert. Immediately after breakfast many, if not all the boys,
            went down to the river and took a bath, removing the last vestige of the hated "Grumble
            Hill." The wagons with the tents not arriving on the 22nd, the regiment bivouacked that
            night. On the morning of the 23rd the cleaning up business was continued. Tents arrived
            and were put up in the forenoon. Directly after dinner the regiment was ordered out for
            battalion drill. It was nothing more than a feeble attempt as yet, but little
            instruction in squad and company drill had been given and almost none in the manual of
            arms. Sometime during the evening after returning to camp orders were received to march.
            This created a hum of excitement. New troops always become more or less excited on
            receiving such orders. Steps were immediately taken to be in readiness. Rations were
            cooked, "traps" of all kinds were packed up, but the orders for the march seemed to hang
            fire. Not until 11 o'clock at night was the order given to
            "fall in." The regiment then marched to the river and crossed on a ferryboat.
          The Eighty-sixth now left Indiana soil to return no more until it came back victorious
            and with banners flying at the close of the war. But, alas! many who then crossed the
            river came not back, and "sleep the sleep that knows no waking " on the other side.
            After reaching the Louisville side the regiment marched west and south with many halts
            and changes of direction as though it was being led by some one who was undecided or did
            not know where to go. It was a long tedious night march. The men were all very tired and
            exhausted by the loss of sleep and marching. The regiment finally halted about 4 o'clock
            a. m. in the southwest suburbs of the city. But the trip down the river, the bivouac in
            the cold night air, battalion drill, and the night march, had their effect upon the
            unseasoned men and the regimental surgeons woke up on the morning of the 24th of
            September to find themselves the proprietors of quite an extensive practice. Soon the
            boys began skirmishing for extras in the line of eatables. Some few succeeded, more met
            with indifferent success, and a larger number made a fiat failure, but they all gained
            experience and strength for another occasion. Camp-guard soon had to be established in
            order to hold the regiment together as the boys were rapidly scattering on these
            foraging expeditions. On the night of the 25th of September, John W. Fisher, of Company
            H., accidentally shot himself through the hand while standing camp guard. The wound was
            quite a severe one and necessitated the removal of an entire finger. This was the first
            accidental shooting in the regiment, although later a number were wounded this way.
            Grave doubts existed whether all were purely accidental.
          In the forenoon of the 26th the regiment received orders to march instanter. It marched
            north, it marched east, it marched south, it marched west and came to the place of
            starting. It was now evident to all that somebody did not know what was wanted. To make
            the best of it the Eighty-sixth  unloaded, intending to
            stay until it was found where it belonged. However, about 4 o'clock p. m. the regiment
            was again ordered into line, and at once marched down into the city. The marching had
            all been done in a hesitating, undecided manner, with checks and halts and consultations
            as though the Colonel might be lost. This childish manner of proceeding had delayed it
            so much that night came on long before the regiment reached Fifth street where it
            bivouacked for the night. Heated by the marching the men lay down without supper on the
            cold ground and tried to sleep. They arose in the morning with teeth chattering, and
            chilled to the bone. For the chill the sovereign remedy was a good strong cup of hot
            coffee. As a stimulant old government Rio or Java was certainly very reliable on such
            occasions. The coffee was soon made—boiling hot and breakfast well on the way.
            Then came the aggravating command, "Fall in, Eighty-sixth." For the space of five
            minutes the air around that bivouac was blue, and bore a strong sulphurous smell,
            mingled with a faint aroma of good strong coffee. No one was chilly now. Hoosier blood
            was hot, and the coffee was still hotter—scalding hot, but none could afford to
            lose that precious beverage. So down it went, hissing hot, and there weren't less than
            five hundred scalded throats in the regiment that day. This time the regiment made an
            advance, moving about a half mile due south where it was halted. There breakfast was
            prepared and eaten.
          After breakfast the orders were to lay off camp. The tents arrived about 10 o'clock and
            were pitched in regulation order. This was the 27th. Later in the day it set in raining,
            and as it was very dark and gloomy and the constant down pouring of water the boys
            thought themselves quite fortunate to have their tents. On this day Buell's veteran army
            arrived. Now for the first time the boys began to realize how troops on the march and
            actively campaigning appeared. The lack of neatness was truly a great surprise. They
            were really an army of unwashed tatterdemalions, but it must not be inferred from this
            that collectively, at least, they were unknown to fame. Of all slouchy slovenly looking,
               mud-begrimed, illy clad human beings these veteran
            troops of Buell's old command were unmatched. The Eighty-sixth was now about to be
            initiated into the third degree of the mysteries of a soldier's life. How difficult they
            had often found it to secure enough water to boil their little pot of coffee, not to
            think of bathing hands and face or the person, could not be realized. This knowledge,
            however, was soon to come. The Eighty-sixth had not yet come to appreciate the full
            force and influence of a long and trying march, where the one great object of the
            general commanding is to be on time, and which the private soldier, inspired by that
            essential espirt de corps, is made to feel the one object of all his
            endeavors is to be in ranks, ever present, ready for the forward march or any duty to
            which he may be assigned. These veterans did not scarcely seem to notice, much less to
            care, for the condition of their clothing, their chief topic of conversation, their
            pride and boast, being the long and rapid march they had made—out-footing Bragg's
            veterans and securing the prize of the march—the city of Louisville. One or two of
            these "unlicked cubs" remarked, "Your clothing will not look so bright or be so clean by
            the time you have made a long hard march after the enemy as we have just done," and they
            were quite right.
          It was observed that these veterans had plenty of rations—onions, potatoes, and
            vegetables—which the Eighty-sixth did not get. What did this mean? Were the raw
            troops to be starved in order to feed these dirty, greasy veterans of Buell's army? Was
            the Commissary Department discriminating in their favor? It certainly looked like it.
            Well, they deserved all the favors they received. But many a member of the Eighty-sixth
            then and there resolved that from that day henceforth, if the Commissary Department did
            not furnish him with provisions, he would find a supply for himself, if possible, and he
            generally made a good effort to fulfill the resolution. It was only under the most
            unfavorable and difficult circumstances that any failed, but of course they often did
            fail, for the simple reason there was nothing to forage. Few regiments in The Army of
            the  Ohio, or as it was afterwards known The Army of the
            Cumberland, were better independent foragers than the Eighty-sixth Indiana. On the night
            of the 27th the boys tried their hands, when a beef not issued by the Commissary came
            into camp. Where it came from few knew, but it found its way inside the guards and no
            arrests were made. On the morning of the 28th reveille was sounded at 3 o'clock, and the
            regiment was called into line and stood to arms until daylight. Then came drill until
            dinner, and in the afternoon drill again. So passed the days at Louisville.
          There were many rumors floating through camp in regard to the movements of the enemy.
            Sometimes they had Bragg advancing in full force upon the city, then again they would
            have him in full retreat—precipitately retiring from Buell's overwhelming numbers.
            The rapidity with which a camp rumor will traverse a cordon of camps encircling a city
            is something marvelous, but no more so than the innumerable forms in which it will
            manifest itself. Equally marvelous is the facility with which troops and armies are
            handled, and the philosophy of "the grand strategy of war" as expounded by the rank and
            file. These rumors and grapevines" are a source of much annoyance to new troops. But the
            old soldier takes things as they come, not allowing anything to disturb him or affect
            the equanimity of his nerves. Experience has taught him better, has schooled him for his
            own advantage. It is in the field of active service that real soldiers are made.
          At Louisville the clamor against General Buell became so formidable that he was removed
            from the command of this army, and General George H. Thomas appointed to succeed him.
            But Thomas declined the promotion, generously refusing to displace his friend, and
            hesitating to assume the responsibility of commanding such an army, magnanimously
            requested the reinstatement of General Buell to the command, which was accordingly done.
            The army was hastily reorganized and the new troops incorporated with the old. The army
            was organized into three army corps, the First, Second, and Third, commanded
            respectively by General A. McD. McCook, General Thomas L.
            Crittenden, and General C. C. Gilbert. Gen. Henry M. Cist in the History of The Army of
            the Cumberland, (then the Army of the Ohio), denominates these divisions as army corps.
            In the official programme of the twentieth annual re-union of The Army of the Cumberland
            they are so called. General Buell himself, in his official report of the campaign in
            pursuit of Bragg, speaks of them as army corps. Many historians, however, designate them
            simply as grand divisions. Their designation as corps, however, was only on the
            authority of the commander of the army, and not therefore correct, but merely used as a
            matter of convenience, as by an act of Congress, approved July 17, 1862, the President
            alone had the authority to establish and organize army corps. As General Fremont was
            given command of the First Army Corps in the Mountain Department August 12, 1862, it
            seems plain that these divisions of Buell's army were not authoritatively designated.
            The new troops that had been rushed into the field for the defense of Cincinnati,
            Covington, and Louisville, were now distributed among and incorporated with the veterans
            of Buell's army, a regiment or two in each brigade of old troops. Thus the danger of
            having a command entirely of raw troops was avoided. The Eighty-sixth was placed in the
            Second Corps, with General T. L. Crittenden in command; the Fifth Division, with General
            H. P. VanCleve in command; and the Fourteenth Brigade, with Colonel P. B. Hawkins, of
            the Eleventh Kentucky, in command.
          On the 29th of September the fatal quarrel between General William Nelson and General
            Jeff C. Davis occurred at Nelson's Headquarters at the Galt House in Louisville. Davis
            was unarmed, but quickly borrowed a pistol and shot Nelson through the lungs causing his
            death in a very short time. Nelson was regarded as an able and efficient division
            commander, but over-bearing and tyrannical to subordinates, and was very much disliked
            by the rank and file of the old army where he was well known. General Davis was tried by
            a court martial which wholly exonerated him from all blame in the sad transaction. On
            the 30th of September, an advance was made by some
            detachments of the army, probably as a reconnoisance, to learn the position and strength
            of the enemy's forces, and to prepare for the general advance soon to be made.
        
        
          CHAPTER VII.  IN PURSUIT OF BRAGG.
          A Real March—Its Trials and Its Lessons—Bardstown—The Dusty Limestone
            Pikes of Kentucky—River Water—Parched Corn—Raw
            Goose—Springfield—On to Perryville—The Detour for Water—A Forced
            Night March.
          As before stated the grand divisions of the army serving in the Department of the Ohio
            under General Buell were never authoritatively designated army corps and given numbers
            by the President, who alone had the authority to form and number corps, but as they were
            so called in that army and in many histories of Buell's campaign after Bragg, to avoid
            confusion, and as a matter of convenience in designating these commands they shall be
            here spoken of as corps. Practically the organizations were the same as army corps, and
            therefore there is no great violence done the military history of that army in so
            calling them.
          At 3 o'clock on the morning of October 1, 1862, the drums beat reveille for the
            Eighty-sixth. The regiment was promptly formed on the color line of the camp and there
            stood to arms until daylight. The regiment drilled during the forenoon as usual, and did
            not have the slightest suspicion of having to march that afternoon; in fact, the rank
            and file did not expect to advance with the army at this time until the order was
            received. They did not consider themselves sufficiently drilled to go to the front and
            face the enemy. They were not consulted in regard to the matter, and in a very short
            time the regiment was strung out upon  the Bardstown pike,
            and going at a good round pace with knapsacks about as large as "the hump" on an
            ordinary camel's back. They were not, however, so well adjusted as a camel's hump. Their
            enormous size and poor adjustment made trouble for many a poor fellow. But
            notwithstanding the men were raw, awkward, and heavily burdened the hot pace was kept
            up. The old soldiers guyed the tenderfoots unmercifully and this aroused their ire. They
            struggled manfully to maintain the high rate of speed, but it was at a fearful cost.
            Many could not keep the pace and fell behind. Every few minutes some one of the thousand
            men would become painfully conscious of the faulty adjustment of his enormous load and
            would drop out of ranks, halt by the roadside, unsling his knapsack and begin to
            rearrange his "pack." That the pace was too rapid and the harness was too galling was
            soon quite apparent from the muttered curses and the rapid thinning of the regiment by
            the men falling out. Some fell out, unslung knapsacks and threw out such articles as
            they thought they could best dispense with, repacked, and tramped on after the rapidly
            disappearing column, hoping to be able to maintain their place in ranks after this
            sacrifice. Others still more determined not to fall behind the regiment on the first
            half day's march, even if it required a greater sacrifice at their hands, unslung their
            huge knapsacks and flung them with curses, but without other ceremony, to the side of
            the road, and trudged hurriedly on after the regiment. Many old soldiers badgered the
            boys over the loads they were carrying. It was a hard march even for the veterans who
            had raced with Bragg and his legions. For the members of the Eighty-sixth and of all new
            regiments it was a killing march. Nor was the question of baggage the only one which
            gave the boys trouble. They knew nothing of the manner in which they should take care of
            their rations while marching and their great and prolonged exertion gave them ravenous
            appetites, and when out a day or two they ate most voraciously, and greatly to their own
            detriment. But another effect soon manifested itself—they soon found themselves
            destitute of  anything to eat, consequently they were in a
            short time suffering from the other extreme.
          When they halted to bivouac the first evening out from Louisville they were terribly
            tired one and all. Naturally enough most of the men sat down to rest before gathering
            their supplies of fuel and water. They were not long in discovering that this waiting
            was a great mistake for more reasons than one. Wood for fuel soon became a scarce
            article in their immediate neighborhood on account of the great consumption of fence
            rails by the old soldiers. Here was a forcible illustration of the principle of supply
            and demand. In this vicinity there was a moderate supply of rails, but there was an
            exorbitant demand for immediate use. The hardy veterans pushed their demands vigorously.
            They had plenty, the raw recruits had none. Water would be the same if the supply was
            not abundant. A scaracity of the latter article often causes intense suffering and it
            was to be greatly dreaded. Then, too, if they waited to rest after a long, hard march
            before laying in the necessary supplies, they found themselves so stiff and sore and
            drawn, that it seemed impossible to proceed in search for the needed articles. Every
            joint, tendon, and muscle was inflexible, and the slightest movement sent the cold
            chills alternately up and down their spines and caused such excruciating pains it was
            almost impossible to restrain outcries. Most of the men felt like it would be impossible
            for them to march on the following day. All speedily learned this lesson: To lay in all
            needed supplies with the utmost alacrity immediately upon arrival in camp. Many would
            get over anxious to be ahead, and thus frequently got themselves laughed at and guyed.
            On occasions of halts made toward evening these over-zealous fellows would drop on to a
            fence corner, pile the rails and guard them while the column went tramping on to
            pastures new to the great disgust of the rail-guarding comrade. Thus were the wits of
            the raw recruit sharpened daily. Time, circumstances, and the old soldiers proved to be
            good teachers and they taught many lessons in rapid succession, and what made the
            lessons  more effective was the dear price paid for most of
            the instruction.
          So the days passed. On the night of the 4th of October, Crittenden's corps arrived in
            the vicinity of Bardstown, VanCleve's division bivouacking in sight of the town. Early
            on the morning of the 5th it was again on the road, passing through Bardstown, and
            pressing on after Bragg's army. The day's duties were a mere repetition of those of the
            preceding day—tramp, tramp, tramp, over hills and across hollows, and on what
            seemed an endless stretch of road, a smooth white limestone pike, from which arose a
            suffocating dust. The regiment and brigade went into bivouac after midnight that night
            on the banks of a branch of Salt River. Here was an abundance of water, and the boys
            were exceedingly glad to get the much despised "river water," but they were scarce of
            rations. Some messes in the regiment had nothing but parched corn and coffee for
            breakfast on the morning of the 6th. The men of the Eighty-sixth had not yet become
            thoroughly broken to the harness nor fully alive to the necessity of husbanding their
            allowance of rations, and they now began to realize the exertion and toil, the hunger
            and thirst and actual hardships of marching. Some in the ranks were grumbling at our
            lack of rations, but it is presumed it was more their fault than that of the Commissary
            Department.
          On the evening of the 6th the brigade bivouacked near Springfield. The men of the
            Eighty-sixth were hungry, tired, leg weary and foot-sore, shoulder tired and tender with
            knapsack, gun, and cartridge-box, and not in the best of spirits or humor. Just across
            the road from the bivouac was a splendid looking patch of Irish potatoes, a most
            tempting bait for hungry men. The clash and clatter of bayonets caused in stacking arms
            had hardly ceased before the men were seen climbing the fence into that patch; for
            although not in very good spirits or in the humor for cheerful and enlivening
            conversation, most of them had sufficient life and energy to dig potatoes. They went to
            digging as though their lives depended upon getting the task done before the  next regiment came along. They were making fine headway when
            Captain Francis B. Mattler, of Company B, took it upon himself to cross over to the
            patch and order the diggers out. His august presence was not appreciated at this
            particular time and his officiousness came near involving him in a serious difficulty. A
            very tired and hungry man is not usually the best natured under the most favorable
            circumstances, There was in this case special reasons for irritation. Many of the men
            had already learned to detest the Captain for his extreme officiousness and petty,
            tyrannical conduct on numerous occasions, and they were therefore ready to settle this
            matter, and with it the old accounts, and pay spot cash for all they owed him on the
            margins of previous deals. So when he climbed the fence and ordered them to stop digging
            the potatoes and get out it did not take them long to be ready for business, and some of
            them "proposed to move immediately upon his works" if he did not get out himself in a
            greater hurry than he had entered. It seemed probable that the doughty Captain would
            have to take ignominously to flight to save himself. But further trouble was averted by
            the Colonel ordering a Captain of another company to quell the disturbance, which was
            done on the part of the detailed Captain in a quiet and judicious manner without
            difficulty, although some of the boys, to use camp slang, "cussed a streak." But they
            were too hungry and determined to yield the potatoes they had already secured and so
            brought them safely to camp. The Eighty-sixth was a hungry body of men that evening and
            everybody was on the lookout for something to eat. One man tired, sick, and very hungry
            had the good fortune to come into possession of a piece of raw goose about half picked,
            but it was not raw very long. It was soon both thoroughly "picked" and well done.
            Placing it on the end of his ram-rod he held it over a 'camp fire and thus broiled it
            slightly and proceeded to devour it. It was a tough piece of goose and he did not
            attempt to cut it, but tore it with his teeth as a dog tears the meat from a bone. The
            blood was dripping from it and ran down from the corners of his mouth and dropped off
            his chin. In the extremes  of hunger man becomes a mere
            animal. This description of hunger may seem to the uninitiated and delicate stomach a
            rather "tough case," yet this piece of more than half raw goose was to him a most
            delicious morsel. No delicacy now done in the best style of the most skillful chef could compare with it in savoriness. Doubtless, however, it was not
            so much the quality of the goose as the man's vigorous appetite that gave it its seeming
            richness of flavor. A slight breakfast consisting of coffee, parched corn and in some
            cases a little government bacon, no dinner, and a day's hard marching is a combination
            not conducive to amusement, good humor, or pleasant memories of the newly enlisted
            soldier, but it is a most wonderful appetizer for all those who have sufficient stamina
            to take the full course. This was the situation of the Eighty-sixth on the evening of
            October 6 at Springfield, Kentucky.
          Rations were issued to the regiment at this bivouac and they came most opportunely. The
            members of the Eighty-sixth were now making rapid progress in the lessons which
            experience alone could teach regarding the life of a soldier, and consequently were, in
            racing parlance, rapidly rounding into form. The camping grounds at Springfield were in
            a meadow, and the men thus secured a good rest for their weary limbs and sore feet, many
            of the latter being blistered from heel to toe, and greatly needed the time on the soft,
            springy turf instead of the hard limestone pike to render them again fit for duty. The
            most of the regiment were greatly refreshed and strengthened by the next day when it
            resumed its line of march, which was about 11 o'clock. It was well that the men had had
            a good rest, and they felt somewhat recuperated in feet, limbs, and strength of body,
            for this day's march, the 7th, proved to be one of the hardest of all in pursuit of
            Bragg.
          Buell's command was now advancing upon Bragg at Perryville on three different roads.
            McCook on the left was approaching the place on the old Maxville road. Gilbert in the
            center, traveling on the direct road from Springfield to Perryville, had the shortest
            route and of course arrived in  the immediate vicinity of
            the enemy first. Crittenden's corps moved on the right flank and somewhat apart from the
            center. This corps was accompanied by General George H. Thomas, Buell's second in
            command, and in fact, the corps was practically commanded by Thomas while absent from
            the presence of the commanding general. The column marched briskly forward, the men
            feeling much refreshed. But a hardship confronted them of a graver nature than any they
            had yet met—the extreme scarcity of water. The column proceeded at a good telling
            pace, while stragglers ranged the country along the roadside hunting for water. When the
            place designated as a camp for Crittenden's command was reached there was still no water
            to be found. Here was a dilemma. The men were already tired and suffering with great
            thirst. The army was concentrating in the face of the enemy. One corps, a very important
            grand division of the forces at hand, being ordered to march on a certain route and
            bivouac at a designated place in order that it might be able to reach the enemy's front
            at a specified time, was unable to obey orders for the reason of a lack of water.
            Military law is said to be absolute. The concentration of an army in the face of an
            enemy is a military duty which requires the greatest skill and caution. It also requires
            careful and exact obedience of the commanding general by his subordinates. It is a
            military maxim that in the presence of an enemy all troops should be kept well in hand,
            while on the march and in easy supporting distance at all times, thus enabling each part
            of the army to support and sustain the other as the exigencies of the occasion may
            demand. The commanding general should know the route of each column, its hour of
            marching, its rate of speed, its bivouac, when reached, condition of troops, and should
            as near as possible see the end from the beginning. But here the subordinate commander
            was met by a condition more imperative than military law itself. It was a demand on the
            physical nature of the men which could not be denied. Water they must have. To obey the
            order to the letter would be to defeat its object. By seeming disobedience alone could
            the spirit of  the order be carried out. There was but one
            right thing to do—a wide detour for water must be made which would necessitate a
            forced night march under the most trying circumstances, and detach the command from the
            rest of the army varying wide from its intended line of march. The men had already
            marched hard. The sun blazed down with fervent heat, and the white hot pike shone back
            in their faces and almost blistered them. It felt like a furnace under their feet. The
            tread of many thousand feet raised from the heated and powdered limestone of the pike a
            fine dust that settled upon all exposed surfaces of the person and penetrated the
            clothing, the nose, ears and mouth and seemed to absorb every particle of moisture of
            the body. The heat and the great exertion made the men extremely thirsty, but this
            heated limestone dust trebled and quadrupled the suffering in this particular. However
            there was but one solution of the problem. General Thomas was equal to the occasion and
            ordered the column forward. Night came but the men toiled on and on, sleepy, tired,
            footsore and hungry. Far into the night the steady regular tread of the column was heard
            on the pike winding over the hills. Silently for a long time they proceeded, bearing up
            bravely with unabated vigor. Then came mutterings and questioning of the need of such
            marching, then lagging, irregular, tottering foot-falls. All were tired and some were
            sleeping. No water had been seen since leaving Springfield. Men ranged the hills and
            hollows along the roadside in search of it. They questioned the natives where a drink
            could be procured, only to receive an equivocal answer. But the questioning and quest
            were alike, vain. Water was not to be had. The men were well-nigh famished, in fact they
            became almost frantic. They could scarcely articulate. The topic of conversation was
            without exception of the one thing on all minds water, water, water. When and where can
            water be procured? There was but one sufficient reason now to carry the column forward.
            The men had become convinced that the object of their desires could only be reached by
            going forward—that somewhere ahead was water, and that this was the reason for  this terrible and determined onward push. The march was
            continued until between 1 and 2 o'clock in the morning of October 8, when the head of
            the column reached the bed of what had been a running stream of water, but which now
            only held here and there pools of the precious stuff. This was known as Rolling Fork of
            Salt River. A mad rush was at once made for the pools and men drank their fill. After
            filling their own canteens they emptied them at one draught, refilled them and partially
            emptied a second time. The army canteen held three pints. This is given as a simple
            illustration of the great thirst suffered by the men of Crittenden's corps on their
            forced march on the night of the 7th of October, 1862.
          The brigade bivouacked on the bluff of the river. It was exceedingly rocky and rough,
            and on this rugged hill they made their beds. Not half the regiment came to the bivouac
            with the marching column. Some came in soon after the regiment halted, and they kept
            coming singly, and in squads, until after sunrise, when the regiment was again pretty
            well reformed. This night's march and the following day was perhaps the Eighty-sixth's
            greatest trials for the want of water during its entire term of service. Gilbert's corps
            also suffered for the same cause, but succeeded in securing possession of some filthy
            pools in the bed of a stream near Perryville on the evening of the 7th, and held them,
            although the enemy made an attempt to drive them off. But bad water was greatly to be
            preferred to no water. The hard march and the deprivation of water or its excessive
            ingestion caused a large number of the regiment to be reported on the sick list on the
            morning before the march was resumed.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VIII. PERRYVILLE.
          The Battle—The Field and the Dead—"The Gilded Puddle Which Beasts Would
            Cough At"—The Onward March—Bivouac in Fodder Houses—On the Skirmish
            Line All Day—A Reconnoisance—Danville—Stanford—Thundering at the
            Rebel Rear—Crab Orchard—Mt. Vernon—A Broken Country—"Hungry
            Hollow."
          The morning of the 8th opened up delightfully pleasant so far as the weather was
            concerned. It was as bright as an October morning could be. Yet it was not a cheerful
            prospect. The rocky hill glistened in the golden sunlight, bare and barren, without a
            spot of green to enliven and brighten its gray slopes and crest. The extreme drought had
            dried up the grasses and all that was to be seen was the gray glistening rocks. The men
            lounged about the place of their bivouac for sometime before the bugles and drums began
            to sound the warning notes that they must proceed at once on their way. The regiment
            filed out of camp, crossed the river-bed and went forward at a rapid pace. Everything
            indicated an emergency at hand and the greatest haste. Certainly trouble was expected
            ahead. Dusty and hot the men soon became greatly heated and very thirsty. Scrambling and
            quarrels occurred at every place where there was the least indication of finding water.
            Even "the gilded puddle" was fought for with the same vehemence as would have been for
            the finest spring. Wherever there was a little mud puddle there was a jostling,
            contentious throng seeking to fill canteens and to slake their thirst. The suffering for
            water was almost as great as the previous night. After covering some eight miles the
            command was halted and ordered to  pile knapsacks. With the
            knapsacks of each company a guard was left and the regiment hurried forward to take a
            position upon the field. The command pressed on until near where the line was forming.
            Then it was halted and formed, and ordered to "forward into line." Soon Hawkins'
            brigade, VanCleve's division, had completed its part of the general allignment with
            Gilbert's and McCook's corps, the corps taking position as it had advanced, that is
            McCook upon the left, Gilbert in the center, and Crittenden on the right. Having
            completed the allignment the command awaited the attack of the enemy. But it waited in
            vain. This was just what General Bragg desired. The delay caused by closing up the
            column of General Buell's army and form it in battle array and then waiting to be
            attacked served his purpose and gave him another twenty-four hours, the time needed, to
            withdraw his wagon train and clear the roads and yet have sufficient time to draw off
            his troops from Buell's front without being forced to fight a general battle which might
            have proved disastrous. His attempt to surprise and crush McCook was a partial success
            as to the surprise, but wholly a failure as to the annihilation. Bragg had no intention
            or desire to meet the whole army which was now in his immediate front, ready and anxious
            for battle. The long lines of blue coats could be seen far to the left and some distance
            to the right. The lines extended from the Lebanon pike on the right to and across the
            Maxville pike on the left. This line was distant on the right from Perryville some two
            or three miles, the left and center being nearer the town. The center, Gilbert's corps,
            was lying across the Springfield pike, while McCook's extended from Gilbert's left some
            distance across the old Maxville road, approaching but not reaching the Chaplin River.
            This was the day on which the battle of Perryville or Chaplin Hills was fought by the
            left and center of Buell's army, the brunt of the battle falling upon the division of
            Rousseau of McCook's corps.
          McCook held his position well, considering the great numbers against him. The battle
            was hotly contested until  night. The Eighty-sixth was in
            line ready for battle about 1 o'clock p. m., and confidently expected to be ordered
            forward. But it simply waited in line for the enemy to make the attack. The regiment lay
            thus in line all day except while engaged in throwing down a fence in its immediate
            front. Batteries came galloping up to the line and wheeled into position. Hither and you
            staff officers might be seen galloping in hot haste with orders for the different parts
            of the line. "The rumble and roar" of battle on the left could be distinctly heard. As
            the various batteries rushed into line here and there a man would be injured. What
            mattered it? This was war. What was the cracked head or broken thigh of one man in
            comparison to the lives of hundreds perhaps that might be saved by the battery being in
            position on time. The business in war is to injure, disable, maim, cripple, kill. The
            regiment was now getting a glimpse of the dreadful, crushing power of war and how it
            ground individuals to nothing under its iron wheels. That some such thoughts were
            entering the minds of the men could be plainly seen by looking down the line. The firm
            set jaw, the determined look of the eye and face of the courageous, and the wild,
            startled look on the face of the more timid, revealed their thoughts and full
            appreciation of the situation as they lay there listening to the thunders of the battle
            and watching for a long line of "graybacks" to come charging upon them. But the regiment
            only waited, that was all. Had Crittenden's and Gilbert's corps been hurled forward upon
            Bragg's forces with the impetuosity that the enemy had attacked McCook, much might have
            been accomplished, if not practically destroying Bragg's army as Thomas afterward
            destroyed Hood's at Nashville. Such a movement might, at least, have saved our army's
            losses at Stone's River, for a crushing defeat here would have so weakened Bragg that he
            could not and would not have dared to make a stand at Murfreesboro.
          Being the rawest kind of campaigners and hearing the boom of the guns till nightfall on
            the left the men remained in line and laid upon their arms at night. The Eighty-sixth
               having left their knapsacks, they had no blankets and
            slept upon the field with mother earth for their couch, wrapped in darkness and
            sheltered by the heavens. The night grew cool and they were pretty thoroughly chilled by
            morning's dawn. After a hasty breakfast of coffee, fat pork and "hard tack" they felt
            warmed and much better. About 6 o'clock a. m. they moved out in line of battle, marching
            in this way through brush, briars, weed patches, over fences, through door-yards,
            gardens and almost everything else. Holding the even tenor of their way they swept on
            trampling under foot everything that came in their path, but no armed foe appeared. The
            regiment covered what seemed about four miles, but it was probably two, and came to a
            fine pasture where the command was halted. Here dinner was had and the men secured a
            much needed rest. Their hardships in the last few days and nights had been very severe,
            still they were true blue and were ready for any duty. Shortly after dinner the command
            was again set in motion, and marched in column through the now historic town of
            Perryville, Kentucky.
          A short distance from town the regiment bivouacked in a nice pasture near a spring of
            fine water, the spring being in a cave. All enjoyed this good pure water. The men soon
            supplied themselves with rails and straw to add to the comfort of their bivouac. Here
            the members of the regiment visited almost in a body the battle-field and looked for the
            first time on the shattered and mangled remains of the dead. Some few in the regiment
            had seen service in the Mexican war, and a few had seen service in other regiments
            during the present war. To all others the dreadful, shocking sights of the battle-field
            were a new, and to most, a sad experience.
          Bragg had now made good his escape from the immediate vicinity of Perryville. For
            allowing him to thus escape Buell was severely condemned. All the old charges of
            incompetency, traitor, and communicating with the enemy, were revived and sounded over
            the land. Few knew the difficulties under which Buell labored. Historians of to-day  will deal more justly with his name and service. The winter
            of 1895, thirty-three years later, Congress recognizing his ability and patriotism
            placed him on the retired list of the army. The St. Louis Globe-Democrat says of this: "The House has done the right thing in placing Don
            Carlos Buell on the retired list of the army as Brigadier-General. General Buell
            commanded one of the great armies with decided ability for nearly a year, and was
            relieved through a singular bit of luck. A part of his army fought a battle without his
            knowledge and against his instructions. The commander was undone by the fault of his
            subordinates, and the extraordinary fact that no one rode a few miles to let him know
            that a heavy battle was in progress at Perryville." Commenting on the above the Chicago
              Inter-Ocean says: "The battle of Perryville was made the pretext of
            carrying out a decision arrived at weeks before. But after all has been said that can be
            said, all parties to the controversy concede that Buell was a good soldier; that he
            handled the Army of the Ohio, afterwards the Army of the Cumberland, admirably, and that
            under his command it became one of the best disciplined and most efficient military
            organizations in the field. The action of the House is to be commended." Such, however,
            was not the opinion in Buell's own army at the time of, and immediately following, the
            battle of Perryville.
          Notwithstanding Bragg had escaped here, it seemed to be the general opinion of general
            officers that he would make a stand farther on, perhaps in the neighborhood of Danville
            or Harrodsburg. It seemed they could not divest their minds of the idea that Bragg was
            in Kentucky to fight rather than to gather up supplies and encourage the Kentuckians to
            enlist in the Southern army. Therefore the following morning the whole army pressed
            forward on all available roads, Crittenden's corps marching out on the road to Danville.
            It was a rough, stony road, and there was scarcely a man in the regiment whose feet were
            not more or less worn out, sore, or tender. The command covered some eight or ten miles
            before halting for the night. The bivouac was located in a beautiful woods pasture, well
            cleared of all underbrush, and  finely set with blue-grass.
            Although tired and sore, the boys went to work immediately to provide necessaries for
            their comfort during the night. The fodder in an adjoining corn field could be seen
            moving in almost every direction—a fair share of it finding its way to the
            Eighty-sixth. Soon the entire regiment had provided itself with snug fodder houses for
            protection against rain and storm. A plentiful supply of rails was had and all seemed
            peaceful and quiet, and the men really did enjoy a very comfortable night. Next morning
            when breakfast was just ready an alarm was given. The pickets had been fired upon and
            the command was, "Fall in, Eighty-sixth." The regiment was instantly formed and went
            forward at once. The prospect for that meal was forever destroyed. After a few minutes'
            waiting two companies were detailed and sent out as skirmishers. One company was
            deployed upon the line, and advancing some distance was ordered to lie down, and there
            through the entire day these skirmishers lay waiting, watching, expecting the enemy to
            attack; this too without breakfast, or a mouthful to eat, or any relief whatever from
            their position. This would have been considered pretty tough service even by veterans,
            but then they would have known how to take advantage of the situation and helped
            themselves by sending details back to the bivouac for food and drink. A short time after
            dark the regiment and the companies on the line, were relieved and returned to the
            bivouac. Supper and breakfast were eaten, both at the same time. The boys were decidedly
            small in the circle of their belts after an eighteen hour fast, and they did ample
            justice to their meager commissary stores. Looking over the history of that Kentucky
            campaign after Bragg one cannot keep from laughing at the awkwardness and feeble manner
            in which the men took care of themselves, yet candor compels it to be said that it was
            an outrage and a shame that they were not better treated and cared for by those in
            command.
          The following morning the drum beat reveille at peep of day, and the men arose
            promptly, not intending to miss another breakfast if they could possibly avoid it by
            their own  exertions and alacrity. The meal was speedily
            prepared and as quickly dispatched. Shortly after the morning meal Hawkins' brigade was
            ordered out on a reconnoissance to determine the location of the enemy. After having
            proceeded some three or four miles there were strong indications of a considerable
            force. The brigade was at once halted and formed in line of battle and there waited
            expecting an attack. But the enemy failed to put in an appearance. The regiment
            bivouacked for the night on the same ground. Again the regiment built fodder houses and
            supplied itself with rails. The men were in a great bustle getting supper and in high
            glee over the prospect for a good time that night, when orders came to move at once and
            rejoin the command. The good humor was soon dispelled and something different prevailed.
            The men thought orders were given at the most unreasonable hours. One time they would be
            cheated out of their breakfast, at another of their supper. But the exposed position
            without adequate support, and the separation from the division, were good military
            reasons for the brigade's recall. The brigade marched at once carrying pumpkins,
            chickens, and various other supplies.
          These daily experiences were making soldiers of some very fast, and invalids of others
            just as rapidly, and actually killing many others. The sick list of the regiment was
            being greatly and very rapidly augmented. The regimental surgeons found themselves with
            more patients than they could properly attend to, and the poor fellows suffered much,
            both from the inability of the surgeons to get round and for the want of medical
            supplies.
          The army was now in the world famous blue-grass region of Kentucky where there was
            plenty, and it is hardly necessary to say that the boys did not depend solely upon the
            regimental commissary for subsistence, but drew from the abundance of the country in a
            very liberal manner, supplying themselves with beef, veal, pork, chickens, turkeys,
            potatoes and all things necessary to refresh and strengthen. No one mess had all of
            these eatables, but the different  messes of the regiment
            were provided with some of these various articles. When in camp, or whenever a halt was
            called when on the march, some of the best foragers would be skirting the column's line
            of march picking up supplies.
          On the morning of the 13th the march was resumed and having covered about six miles,
            the command arrived at Danville. Bivouacking at the edge of town in a fine woods pasture
            belonging to the farm of General Boyle very strict orders were received against
            foraging, even the talking of fence-rails. Cord-wood was issued to the Eighty-sixth for
            fuel. The regiment arrived here early in the day and were quite comfortably situated and
            were made exceedingly glad by the reception of a large mail from friends in the North.
            Singing and shouting took the place of grumbling and mutterings of discontent. The early
            halt and bivouac gave all who were well a good rest, and an opportunity for the men to
            do many little things for themselves which they could not find time to do when marching
            from early morning until late at night, or spending the same long hours on the skirmish
            line. Clothing was repaired, and the straps of the cartridge-box, knapsacks and
            haversacks were adjusted. These are small things, but they are straws on the camel's
            back and they are essential to the soldier's comfort when on the march.
          The regiment was now considerably reduced in numbers. Some were behind, foot-sore and
            worn out, many were sick, and a few had deserted. This march had tried the mettle of the
            men as well as their physical stamina. Some still with the regiment were injured in
            health and broken in spirits and constitutions, but had managed by great perseverance
            and will power to maintain their places in ranks. It was only the strong, muscular ones
            of iron constitutions and indomitable pluck, genuine Saxon grit, that had been able to
            maintain their places in ranks at all times and endure the great hardships up to this
            point in the march without injury to themselves. From the day they left Louisville there
            had been a terrible strain on the men of the regiment, and it is really wonderful that
            so many came through it all. Raw as the  men were, they
            kept pace with the veterans of Buell's army, inured to all kinds of service and
            exposure, and as a regiment it was ever ready for the line of battle, for the skirmish
            line, or whatever duty it was called upon to perform, although the men scarcely knew
            more of drill than to "shoulder arms" or "right face."
          The command, or VanCleve's division at least, had almost twenty-four hours rest at
            Danville and were much benefitted by it. On the morning of the 14th after breakfasting
            on some of the best that the blue-grass region afforded, the division left Danville
            continuing the pursuit of Bragg's army, General Wood's division having preceded it
            during the night on the Stanford road. The day was quite warm, but the division pushed
            on to Stanford. Before arriving there, however, the boom of cannon could be heard.
            General Wood's division had run up against the rear of the enemy and was pounding away
            at him in a vigorous manner. To judge by the thunderous roar of the artillery there was
            a battle on hand. A strong rear guard had been posted to delay the advance of Buell's
            column. They showed a strong disposition to maintain the ground and to fight if too
            closely encroached upon, but General Wood finally succeeded in putting them to flight
            and continued the pursuit. They had served their purpose. They delayed the column and
            gave General Bragg more time to get his supplies out of the way. As Wood continued right
            on after the enemy, VanCleve's division had nothing to do but to follow to within a few
            miles of Crab Orchard. But it was not to be a night of rest. The men of the Eighty-sixth
            weary, sore, and asleep as though dead, were aroused, and ordered to push on. It was
            about 11 o'clock at night when the column tramped on in the darkness after the
            fleet-footed foe. Bragg was well away now and cared little for his pursuers. The
            topography of the country had greatly changed. The fine rolling land like that around
            Danville had disappeared, and instead, it was a broken, semi-barren region that
            furnished but little provender for the free-handed foragers. There were hills and
            hollows, and ravines and gullies, and these constituted the  country. Forage for the horses and mules was scarce. There were fewer chickens,
            turkeys, ducks and geese, hogs and sheep, consequently the men had to depend for
            subsistence almost entirely upon the rations issued from the commissary department. The
            pikes had disappeared. In one sense this was an advantage, but in other respects it was
            much harder than marching on the pikes. Now there were dirt roads, the best of all roads
            for marching when good, and clear of obstructions, and when soft enough to be spongy and
            springy under the feet. But these roads were gravelly and rocky. The marching was uphill
            and down hill, up ravines and down hollows, through gorges and winding round hillsides.
            This manner of marching to already worn out men was very exhausting. It was only the
            invincible Hoosier pluck that carried nine out of ten through. The bad quality of the
            water here caused many to suffer severely with camp diarrhœa and the regimental surgeons
            were kept busy.
          The wagon trains were left at Stanford, only the ambulances accompanying the troops.
            But the column pushed forward on through Crab Orchard and Mt. Vernon, pressed close on
            the heels of Bragg's retiring forces, thundering at the rear-guard almost continuously.
            Rations were exhausted by the raw troops, but what mattered it so the rebels were driven
            out? A few miles beyond Mt. Vernon a deep ravine or gorge through which the road passed
            was filled with trees felled from the hillsides into the road, thus effectually
            blockading it. The regiment had bivouacked the previous night between this point and Mt.
            Vernon, and when it was found that this gorge was blockaded it was ordered to return to
            the bivouac of the previous night, although a very undesirable place for a camp. The
            road passed through a deep ravine with steep hills rising on each side. There was
            scarcely a place on all the hillsides where a good bed could be made, yet the whole
            regiment was compelled to "bunk" here. The scarcity of rations here both nights caused
            the boys to give the place the name of "Hungry Hollow," and it was worthy of the name,
            as many an old soldier will  remember it well until his
            dying day. Rations almost wholly gone, nothing to forage in this wild, hilly country,
            bad water and a steep hillside so steep that the men had to sleep astraddle of a
            sapling, doubled round a stump or rock, or lie on the uphill side of a log to keep from
            rolling or sliding down. All these did not have a tendency to endear the place to any,
            although it will ever have a place in memory. No doubt, the younger generations may
            laugh at those things as matters of the veterans' perverted imagination, but a few
            weeks' campaigning in the mountainous regions of Kentucky will satisfy the most
            skeptical, and they will quickly avow "the half has not been told."
        
        
          CHAPTER IX.  THE WILD CAT HILLS.
          Sour Grapes—Buell Denounced—Turned Back—Buell Removed—Rosecrans
            Assigned to the Command—Somerset-A Deep Snowfall—Apple
            Jack—Columbia—Overcoats and Dress Coats Drawn—Stolen
            Cheese—Glasgow.
          The following morning the road having been cleared of all obstructions, Crittenden's
            corps pushed on after the rebel forces to what was known as the "Wild Cat Hills" in the
            vicinity of Rockcastle river. This was an extremely wild and broken country, each
            section getting rougher than the preceding as the mountains were approached. The hills
            presented many strange sights to the Hoosier eyes, accustomed to look only upon the flat
            country of the Wabash Valley. The hills rose almost to mountain height. There were wild
            dells and picturesque cliffs, ravines, gorges, abrupt and precipitous descents, among
            all of which the road wound it serpentine way. Here were many immense boulders and
            smaller broken and fragmentary rocks in piles as if the hammer of God had smitten
            mountains of stone and shivered and crushed them into loose lying fragments. Forageable
               things, of course, were not to be found in this thinly
            settled section, consequently the stock of provender daily grew more and more
            attenuated.
          Here on these Wild Cat Hills occurred an incident to which new regiments are subject,
            and which sometimes rob them of many a good soldier. Elijah Wellman, of Company H,
            carelessly handling his gun shot a toe off. This gave the Surgeon a chance to show his
            skill in another manner than in issuing quinine and Dovers powders. After the amputation
            was completed and the patient came out from the influence of the chloroform he became
            very sick and vomited a great deal. This unfortunate accident ended Wellman's service
            with the regiment.
          There was at this time much discontent and grumbling among the troops which was most
            generally directed at General Buell. In fact, the feeling here against him grew stronger
            than ever, the fault finders holding him responsible for the escape of the rebel army,
            for the lack of rations, and for the hard and laborious march without apparent success
            in forcing the enemy to give battle after leaving Perryville. The rank and file of the
            army from Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Iowa were particularly bitter and outspoken.
          After lounging a day or two among the rocks of the Wild Cat Hills while the cavalry
            pursued the retreating enemy as far as Barboursville and Manchester, the column about
            faced and returned to the neighborhood of Mt. Vernon. From here the sick, and those
            greatly enfeebled, and the wounded, were sent back to hospitals in the rear, while the
            army went toiling across the country toward Nashville. It was not a cheerful thought to
            have in one's mind of another long march over a rough broken country, but the army must
            reach the vicinity of Nashville before the enemy's forces get in striking distance, and
            therefore there must be no extra delays.
          On the morning of the 24th of October, by General Order No. 168, War Department,
            General Buell was removed and Major General W. S. Rosecrans assigned to the command. By
            the same order, the Department of the Cumberland  was
            re-created. It also designated the troops as the Fourteenth Army Corps, which soon
            afterwards, by general and popular consent gave place to the more appropriate name of
            Army of the Cumberland, as originally borne under Generals Anderson and Sherman.
          On the 24th, taking the road to Somerset, the regiment marched somewhat more leisurely.
            It covered some eight or nine miles and bivouacked near a fine pond of water, and was
            decidedly more comfortable than on the Wild Cat Hills, although it was not good ground
            for a bivouac. The following morning reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock, and all was
            bustle and hurry until breakfast was prepared and eaten. But then the hurry was over and
            VanCleve waited for another division to take the advance. The troops lounged here and
            there until about 10 o'clock and then filed out upon the road, winding over the country,
            making good time, and reaching Somerset about 4 o'clock. It was now. raining and a most
            unpromising evening. The command passed beyond the town about a mile and bivouacked. But
            for some reason the Eighty-sixth had great trouble to find its place. Colonel Hamilton
            lost his temper entirely and threatened to demolish the veteran regiments who were
            guying the Eighty-sixth about being "lost in the wilderness' like the children of
            Israel. It was rather too pointed to the Colonel. It passed here and there through the
            grounds of the other regiments and somewhat disturbed them. Much bad feeling was
            engendered, but at length about dark he found the place assigned him. There was not a
            flattering prospect for much needed rest, but the men slept soundly until towards
            morning—about 3 o'clock—when they were wakened by the limbs from the trees
            falling all around. There was a continual snapping and crashing of limbs. They would
            break off from the trees with snapping and cracking sound, and in a second or so would
            come crashing upon the earth. On looking about them they immediately perceived the
            cause. They discovered that some five or six inches of snow had fallen in the night and
            being wet and heavy was breaking the limbs from the trees. The various bunks of the
            regiment was buried in  "the beautiful." Several men in the
            regiment were more or less injured by the falling limbs. It was quite dangerous and
            notwithstanding they were tired, the entire regiment now arose and built fires and
            watched for falling timber not daring to lie down. Not a man in the regiment had a tent,
            consequently all were covered with snow and their blankets were wringing wet. Rails were
            carried a good half mile or more, fires were built and blankets strung up near them to
            dry. Breakfast was prepared and eaten and every preparation was made to be ready to
            march, but word came that the regiment would remain in camp, and then the work of the
            day was commenced in earnest. Axes were procured and hundreds of strong men went to
            work, felling great trees on every hand until the forest rang. The crash of the falling
            trees was mingled with the shouts and laughter of the busy laborers. Trees were felled
            and cut into logs. These were rolled into great heaps and fired. The brush was cut and
            piled in heaps, and thus the work proceeded in all parts of the camp. Here and there
            were parties of workers chopping, others rolling and piling the logs together, and still
            others gathering and piling the brush and building fires, until the camp ground looked
            like a great clearing up of lands in a timbered country more than a military bivouac.
            Some built brush houses, or sheds, to protect themselves from the storm, and made fires
            immediately in front of these primitive structures, and were soon reasonably
            comfortable, even with the ground covered with snow. Fortunately the Eighty-sixth was
            bivouacked in a large woods pasture from which the under brush had been cleared. This
            with the felled timber made it a very good and comfortable place. During the night the
            regiment had sheltered under the trees, and now these same trees cut down furnished the
            men fuel and shelter. The members of the Eighty-sixth were not slow by this time to take
            advantage of any circumstance which would contribute to their comfort in camp. But here
            great inclemency of the weather caught them unawares, and the severe exposure rapidly
            increased the number of sick among those already greatly exhausted and worn out by the
            long  continued marching, and its many privations and
            extreme hardships. Accordingly the regimental surgeons established a temporary hospital
            in the town of Somerset, and some fifteen or twenty of the worst cases were conveyed
            there, that they might have better attention and care while the command remained here.
            But this was not long. It remained over the 26th and 27th of October, recruiting
            strength and waiting for the roads to dry up. On the morning of the 28th a member of
            Company K, Alexander Jester, died at the hospital in Somerset. He was buried by the
            hospital force. The march for Nashville was resumed. The roads were bad and but little
            progress was made. The command bivouacked near a stream known as Fishing Creek. Here
            Laban Landon, or Company C, died, and was buried by the side of the road. Thus were the
            ranks of our noble regiment being thinned. Few comrades remember these patriots who gave
            up their lives for the cause as truly as those who died upon the field. They were too
            much burdened and hurried in the onward push to give much heed to a dying comrade. Who
            can locate their graves? No flowers for them on Memorial Day, yet who will say that they
            shall not receive their reward?
          From Somerset the column marched to Columbia, reaching there on the 31st. There was
            nothing occurred on this part of the march out of the usual routine, with the single
            exception that perhaps the supply of "applejack" was rather more abundant than
            heretofore, and those who wished to lay in a supply had a little more leisure to look
            for it, consequently those disposed to imbibe freely were sometime slow about reaching
            camp and were often inclined to be boisterous when they did reach it. Others were "too
            full for utterance" and navigation, and tarried by the way-side until the mighty
            influence of the "jack" had abated its control. Then they came to camp soberly and
            demurely. Poor fellows, they looked badly enough, and no doubt they felt even worse than
            they looked.
          The following morning after reaching Columbia, November 1, clothing was issued to the
            Eighty-sixth, and the poor  simpletons, nearly to a man,
            drew overcoats and dress-coats, and many of them other articles of clothing. The men
            already had a sufficient load to carry. These coats and articles of clothing greatly
            increased their burdens. The men had perhaps thrown away since leaving Louisville fully
            one half of their baggage, and now were again loaded to the guards—fully as heavy
            as when leaving that city to take their first march. But experience is an excellent
            master. On November 1 the regiment left Columbia, marching out about 8 o'clock. The
            morning was quite cool and the men generally put on their dress-coats and overcoats,
            thinking that the easiest way to carry them. The command was hurried forward at a rapid
            pace. As the day advanced the heat increased until it became quite warm. Bundled as the
            men were they soon felt themselves sweating at every pore, but no time was given to
            change coats or to re-adjust loads. It was certainly very hard marching. Many gave out
            and fell behind the regiment before noon, but no halt was called. Still pressing on with
            unabated speed the number in ranks grew less and less. Some few straggled to be sure,
            who were not exhausted, but when the regiment was finally halted for the night's
            bivouac, about 3 o'clock, there were only one hundred and forty men in ranks to stack
            arms. At first the Colonel looked at the regiment as it "dressed up" in line before
            stacking arms in blank amazement. Then he became angry, growing hotter and hotter until
            he was in a terrible rage. He charged on to the company officers, but soon saw that was
            utterly useless. Then he charged back upon the incoming stragglers, swearing that he
            would arrest and punish every man of the Eighty-sixth that was behind when the halt was
            called. He immediately ordered the arrest of those just coming in and placed a guard to
            halt and arrest all who came later. The stragglers were collected under a large tree in
            an open space just to the rear of the regimental line where all could see and hear. And
            here the Colonel continued to swear at them and tell them what terrible punishment was
            in store for them, what kind of soldiers they were, and how little they deserved the
            name. It was a perfect volley of  epithets and abusive
            terms, and long continued. It was fun for the boys who came in on time, and for some who
            were in the arrested squad, but judging by appearances it was quite a serious matter for
            others. Some were greatly crestfallen at the thought of being under arrest. Others took
            it quite philosophically. Most of them knew Colonel Hamilton to be a hot-headed but
            kindly natured man who would relent, and practically, at least, take it all back as soon
            as his anger cooled off. He soon had a good two hundred under and around that tree, and
            would gallop his charger in a furious manner almost upon every new arrival. He fumed and
            fretted, he chafed and frothed, and swore what terrible things he intended to do. One
            would have supposed he would have every man of them shot at sunrise the next morning. At
            length his anger began to cool and he saw the folly of his rage and the utter
            foolishness of his conduct. He then gave up in disgust and ordered the men to go to
            their respective companies, but threatened the direst punishment upon any of them if he
            ever again caught them straggling. The tirade of the Colonel against the boys occasioned
            much merriment for those who were calmly watching the circus at a safe distance. The
            affair was known as "the arrest of the persimmon knockers," or the "the organization of
            the Eighty-seventh Regiment by Colonel Hamilton." We believe the latter designation was
            given it by Ike Wetherall, of Company K, one of the captured late arrivals and one of
            the noisest men in the regiment. This diversion came in good time. It was needed, and it
            somewhat revived the men, although they were very tired and sore. The march had been a
            hard one and the men had appetites like sharks. Consequently rations vanished with
            unexampled rapidity.
          It will not be out of place here to relate an incident of the night. One of the boys
            who had a little money and very little rations, went to a sutler near by and bought
            fifty cents' worth of cheese. But being of a provident disposition the mess did not eat
            it that night for supper, intending to save it for the morrow when their wants would be
            still greater, their hunger more urgent and imperative. It was packed away  nicely in a haversack and the haversack placed in a stack of
            guns standing quite near the mess's sleeping place, in fact, their "shake down" being
            spread against one side of the "stack." But alas! when the cheese was sought by eager
            and hungry messmates the following morning not a crumb of it could be found. It had been
            spirited away. Its disappearance was complete. Search was made without success. It was a
            mystery. Who got the cheese was the question. The poacher, Packer, was accused of the
            theft but strenuously denied it. He swore he would have been glad to have eaten it but
            did not have that pleasure. The search and all hope of ever finding the thief were given
            up. But of this, as of almost all things of its class sooner or later the old saying
            "murder will out," came true. Some eight years afterward the man who got the cheese, who
            was wholly unsuspected and might have remained so, took too much "insanity drops" and
            straightway divulged his secret of the theft. He pleaded destitution of both rations and
            money, extreme hunger and inability to procure anything by begging from comrades almost
            as destitute as himself, in extenuation of his pilfering. He was freely forgiven, and
            all who were still living of the mess took a hearty laugh over it and the events of the
            day, November 1, 1862, when Colonel Hamilton frightened the "persimmon knockers" so
            badly.
          On the following morning the stragglers being fully and duly restored, they all marched
            out together about 9 o'clock, singing with spirit "John Brown's body lies mouldering in
            in the tomb." They stepped of at a lively rate, making good time in much better shape
            than they had done the previous day. They covered some seventeen or eighteen miles by
            dark and bivouacked in the woods alongside the road. The next morning they were on the
            road by 6 o'clock and marched steadily, reaching Glasgow, passed through the town and
            bivouacked about 1 o'clock in a beautiful meadow or pasture lying in the bottom lands of
            quite a nice stream known as a branch of the Big Barren River.
          Here the boys who had an inclination to forage on their own hook had fair opportunities
            to lay in temporary supplies.  The Eighty-sixth on such
            occasions acted on the principle that "opportunities are like eggs and must be hatched
            while fresh." The chickens, turkeys, pigs and sheep came into camp in goodly numbers.
            Camp-kettles were in great demand, and when procured were usually well filled and kept
            so almost day and night. Active foraging for eatables continued while the command
            remained here. The country afforded an abundance. At this place again a number of the
            regiment had become sick or so completely exhausted as to require that they be sent back
            to hospitals to recuperate, as the number greatly exceeded the capacity of the
            regimental ambulances to convey them with the column as it pushed ahead. They were sent
            from here mostly to Cave City, the nearest railroad point, and from there on to Bowling
            Green and Louisville.
          On the morning of the 5th of November, the column resumed its march. The men were
            somewhat refreshed and strengthened by the rest and "the fat of the land." It was now
            the Fourteenth Army Corps, Department of the Cumberland, and General Rosecrans was in
            command. Passing through Glasgow the column bore off to the southwest on the Scottsville
            and Gallatin road, and covering some sixteen or seventeen miles, bivouacked about 3
            o'clock in the woods near the road. A little rain fell in the evening, but not enough to
            lay the dust. The foraging was continued while on the march, but not with the same
            effect as when in camp. The supply of chickens brought to the evening's bivouac was
            limited. On the following morning the orders were to march at 6 o'clock, but it was near
            10 o'clock when the regiment filed out upon the road. The command covered some fourteen
            or fifteen miles during the day's march, passing through Scottsville and a mile beyond,
            and bivouacked in a perfect thicket of underbrush. The roads were good except being very
            dusty. Again this evening there was a light sprinkle of rain, after which it turned
            cooler. The boys divided very liberally with the citizens of the country through which
            the army passed, and brought to camp chickens, pigs and dried fruit. The enterprising
            "pot-hound" was a prime  necessity to raw troops on a long
            march. The following morning was quite cool. This made it disagreeable and the men
            hovered round the bivouac fires. About 10 o'clock the tramp was resumed. The weather
            remained cold and damp, snow falling more or less throughout the day. The distance made
            was not great, but it was a very uncomfortable day's march. The night was cold and the
            men felt the full force of the disagreeable weather. The following morning reveille was
            sounded about 3 o'clock. The regiment arose promptly, breakfasted at 4:30 and resumed
            its line of march for Gallatin about 6:30, where it arrived after a hard march at 3
            o'clock in the afternoon, having traveled some eighteen or twenty miles. It pressed on
            still farther to within about one mile of the Cumberland River. In this day's march it
            was estimated by different ones that the command had marched from twenty-two to
            twenty-five miles. As there was no halt called for dinner few, if any of the regiment,
            had eaten anything during the day more than a few bites as they plodded along the road.
            There was therefore great demand for rations and not many rations to be had. After a
            good night's rest the men learned that they would not move as there was no bridge on
            which to cross the Cumberland river. A detail was made from the Eighty-sixth to aid in
            its construction. Until this detail returned there was no probability that the command
            would march. This was a pointer for the free-handed foragers and they might have been
            seen making good time for "green fields and pastures new." On every hill-top one or more
            blue-coats could be seen scenting the game, and that, too, at an early hour. Nor did
            they come back empty handed. The bridge detail returned about 9 p. m. and reported the
            bridge ready for crossing. The orders for the following morning were to march at 6:30
            o'clock, but Hawkins' brigade did not start until 7 o'clock. The command marched
            directly to and crossed the Cumberland river on the new bridge. After crossing the
            river, the brigade proceeded on the road running nearly due south until it reached the
            Lebanon and Nashville pike. At this point it turned west toward Nashville and marched a
            few miles and halted for the night in a fine  pasture near
            a beautiful stream of water. The command marched during this day probable twelve or
            fifteen miles. This place was known as Silver Springs.
          The men of the regiment were delighted with the place as a camping ground, and the
            prospect of remaining here long enough for a good rest seemed fairly good. There was a
            fine sward, a plentiful supply of pure water, and an abundance of rails conveniently
            near for all necessary purposes, both for cooking and heating. Such a fine place for
            camping it had not been the men's fortune often to see. There were also certain signs
            discovered which denoted that there might be found in the immediate vicinity of camp a
            goodly supply of ducks, geese, chickens, pigs, and sheep, and it was almost certain that
            the demand would be quite equal to the supply. Fearing the supply would soon be
            exhausted, the Eighty-sixth sent out some strong foraging parties the first night. The
            officers of the regiment did not do this, but the men with muskets did. They were
            efficient and energetic and served their respective messes and companies well and
            faithfully. They brought to camp in abundance, turkeys, chickens, pigs, cured meat,
            dried fruits, and sweet potatoes. Even the next day the fowls could be heard on all
            sides in the camp of the Eighty-sixth, and the old soldiers of the brigade began to "let
            up" on guying the boys about their inability to look out for themselves in the way of
            foraging. The 11th of November, the next day after arriving at this camp, was clear,
            cool and fine. There were no orders to march and this was cheering news. The weary,
            foot-sore men were greatly pleased with the prospect of getting additional rest.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER X. SILVER SPRINGS AND RURAL HILL.
          A Forty Days' March Reviewed—Death of William Rose and Archibald Coats—A
            March to Rural Hill—Skirmish With John Morgan's Men—In Camp Near
            Nashville—Detail of Twenty Men for the Pioneer Corps—Drill and Picket
            Duty.
          The Eighty-sixth had been on the march for forty days, and a part of the time day and
            night. Raw, soft, and undrilled as the men were, they had been placed in a brigade and
            division of veteran troops, hardened campaigners, accustomed to marching and inured to
            all the duties of the field and a soldier's life, and they were expected to, and did,
            perform their full share of duty with these troops. It was a terribly rough
            introduction, but there was no help for it, and all the Eighty-sixth could do was to
            perform the duty or die. Many indeed had fallen by the way-side—literally marched
            to death. Others had sickened and died, the principal factors causing the sickness being
            exposure, privations and the exhausting labor of marching. Still others sick and
            exhausted, unable to keep pace with Buell's column as it pushed on after Bragg, were
            sent to the hospitals in the rear, here and there over the country, to regain their
            health for future campaigns. But many of these never again "took arms" with their former
            comrades. They were too much broken in health to return to duty in the ranks. Perhaps
            the pursuit of Bragg's army by that of Buell's, taken as a whole, was the hardest and
            most trying march any Union army was forced to endure during the entire war. The army
            was not then supplied with the light and convenient shelter tents which it afterwards
            carried. The bulk and unhandiness of the Sibleys made them no better than no tents, for
               either the wagons were never up with them, or the men
            were too tired to handle them at night when they reached camp. Therefore, they slept
            constantly without tents, exposed to the night air, in good and bad weather, in rain and
            in snow, and felt the full force of all the changes of weather. The great exertion
            during the day heated their bodies and the cool nights chilled and stiffened their
            joints and bound their muscles. These things with the inexperience and the extreme
            scarcity of water, together with the very bad quality of most of it that could be
            procured, rendered the march a continual struggle for existence, an epoch in one's life
            to be remembered. It was a very common, almost daily, occurrence to find
                —"the gilded puddle
                Which beasts would cough at,"
               the only supply of water to furnish drink and from which to procure enough
            to make a pot of coffee. Those of delicate, nervous systems and dainty stomachs, with a
            thought of home, its healthy food and drink, and even delicacies, would sicken at the
            sight of a putrefying mule half submerged in the pond of water where they were compelled
            to get their supply. The thought of a good, cool drink from the pure water of the well
            at home would cause them to turn with unutterable disgust from this festering filth with
            its green scum. Such men were already more than half beaten without the suspicion of the
            smell of gun powder. Others, however, of firmer fibre, stauncher mold, and iron nerve,
            and a resolution that would never say "hold, enough," parted the thick green scum,
            filled the canteen, shut their eyes and drank deeply of the water as it washed back and
            over the festering animal matter, set in motion as it was by the dipping of many
            canteens. Such material makes invincible soldiers, as near, at least, as human beings
            can be called invincible. Of such material was the Army of the Cumberland composed.
            Father Abraham at Washington had no better, truer, soldiers than those of this old army
            after the chaff was winnowed out of it. All the Eighty-sixth now lacked to complete the
            test was the baptism of fire—the battle's storm and hail to finish in every
            particular  its initiation. In looking back over this trip
            through, Kentucky after Bragg's army it is with horror that one thinks of the abominable
            character of the drinking water, the scant rations and the general treatment the men
            received. It is a wonder that so many endured it and survived.
          Many, who by indomitable pluck and perseverance, came through the march in pursuit of
            Bragg had the seeds of disease sown in them which afterwards developed and bore fruit,
            and from the effects of which they never will be free until they shall have paid the
            last debt of nature and reaped the reward of their manliness and patriotism. The extent
            of their sacrifices is little known or appreciated in this life.
          All were greatly rejoiced at the prospect of a breathing spell and an opportunity to
            recuperate after the late rough service they had undergone. On the night of the 11th of
            November, here at this camp William Rose, of Company B, died. He was buried on the 12th.
            On the 13th, Archibald Coats, of Company D, died, and was buried the same day. The
            deaths of these two men so soon after our long march show how desperately the men
            sometimes struggled to do what they considered their duty. Up to within a very few days
            of their death they had, shoulder to shoulder, tramped the weary miles through Kentucky
            with their comrades, literally wearing their lives away. Yet when a halt was called and
            the relaxation came which follows protracted effort, they gave up and passed away to
            that peaceful land, where the clash of steel, and the tread of armed squadrons do not
            disturb. This march had been to the Eighty-sixth an expensive one. The deaths and the
            many sent back sick, had reduced the regiment to about one-half its original
            strength.
          On the 14th of November the Eighty-sixth was ordered to prepare for general inspection.
            Then came the hurry and bustle of cleaning arms and equipments, bathing the person and
            washing the clothing. Besides these things the men were instructed for some time in
            company drill. On the morning of the 15th they received orders to arrange camp in
            regular system. This greatly cheered the boys. It caused a 
            great deal of work, however, to take down and change all those heavy Sibley tents, but
            they they supposed they had a very good assurance that they would remain here for some
            time, and all therefore worked willingly. But scarcely was the camp laid off and the
            tents arranged and put up in regulation style when orders were received to march. Some
            rather caustic "benedictions" were pronounced in a very energetic manner upon the
            officers for this extra work, and the order to march following so close upon it. The
            order was received about 11 o'clock a. m. Tents were struck at once, packed and placed
            in the wagons. All other "traps" were done up and put on the wagons or arranged for the
            soldier's own "pack," and the regiment was in line ready to march by noon.
          At this camp at Silver Springs on the night of November 12, was the first time the
            regiment slept in tents after leaving Louisville, October 1. For more than forty days
            the men had marched and bivouacked—had laid upon the ground in fair and in foul
            weather with naught but their blankets, darkness, and the starry heavens to cover them,
            save occasionally when sleeping in the friendly cover of some leafy bower of the forest.
            This march Was an instructive experience. Its lessons were forceful and not to be denied
            attention. They asserted themselves. Here is an example: Often in the still hours of the
            chilly night, one might hear the shriek of some youth, as he suddenly awakened from
            slumber, to the realization that he was suffering excruciating tortures, writhing in
            pain with numerous extra "kinks" in his legs forcing him to make these outcries. What
            does it mean? It means that he had overtaxed his strength, his muscles, in endeavoring
            to keep pace with the advancing column. Burdened beyond his strength and years, with
            knapsack, haversack, canteen, and gun and cartridge-box, he had labored with every
            muscle throughout the day to keep his place in ranks. He had obeyed the laws and orders
            of man, but broken the laws of nature, and he was now paying the penalty. All day long
            the muscles of his lower limbs unceasingly had contracted and relaxed alternately. They
            were  still keeping up the play, but now the action was of
            a spasmodic character. In short, the overtaxed muscles, of his legs were cramping as
            though they would pull themselves loose from their attachments, and in his agony he
            cries out and calls on some comrade to rub him until the attack of cramp passes and he
            can again lie down to sleep. Some times this is repeated many times during a single
            night, and no one who has never suffered such attacks can estimate the torment of them.
            Short the attacks may be, but terrible in their punishment of the victim who has broken
            an inexorable law.
          The regiment was drawn up in line ready to march at the hour of 12. Hawkins' brigade
            was the only troops moving. There was not therefore a very large force on the march.
            Covering some seven or eight miles the command bivouacked in a very pretty place in a
            fine woods pasture in the immediate neighborhood of Rural Hill, Wilson county,
            Tennessee, and supposed to be in the vicinity of the enemy. Accordingly the brigade was
            ordered to sleep on its arms. Shortly after "taps" picket firing occurred, and the
            command was immediately called "to arms," and stood in line for a short time. At 5:30 a.
            m. the command was again called up and stood to arms until daylight.
          During the forenoon some prisoners were captured and brought into camp. Three rebel
            cavalrymen were brought in by the Eighty-sixth. It was evident that the enemy was
            watching closely and would attack if a favorable opportunity offered. Company H was put
            on the picket line with orders to keep a sharp watch for the enemy. Lieutenant Jeremiah
            Haugh, of Company B, went outside of the picket lines and was doing a little independent
            scouting when he was chased by the enemy's cavalry and had a close call to escape. The
            "Johnnie Rebs" finding that the blue coats would not halt at their commands opened fire
            upon him. A running fire is seldom an effective one, yet Haugh received a severe wound
            through the left shoulder, but he wavered not in his retreat, running a good race and
            made his escape sure. His wound was severe but not dangerous. The weather was  dark and gloomy, raining or misting all day. Besides the
            adventure of Lieutenant Haugh the regiment lost another adventurous spirit, company H's
            champion forager and "pot-hound," John Miller. He went out on one of his predatory
            excursions and failed to return. He was captured and paroled, but he never again
            returned to the regiment or company. He went home and when reported as a deserter and it
            became too hot in Indiana he went still further away. Evidently he had seen enough of
            Morgan's men. Some time before he had captured a donkey with which he made his foraging
            trips. Presumably on this occasion the donkey was not swift enough when ladened with
            turkeys and chickens to outrun Morgan's cavalry, and he had therefore been captured with
            a donkey load of pillage in his possession. Seeing him to be a genuine pilferer, they
            had doubtless threatened to take his life if ever again caught, and had so frightened
            him that when released he at once started for home, and probably promised to do so, if
            they would but spare his life.
          On the morning of the 17th of November, Company E, Captain Phillip Gemmer, relieved
            Company H from picket duty, and received the orders to keep the strictest watch for the
            expected enemy. All day the command watched and waited. There were some indications of
            an attack, but none was made. On the morning of the 18th, just after daylight, while the
            command was busy preparing breakfast, the pickets began a brisk firing that indicated an
            attack. The brigade was under arms immediately. The enemy's calvary had made a bold dash
            on the picket line, had broken it and rode it down and came right on in gallant style
            for the brigade camp, doubtless expecting to take it by surprise, stampede it, and
            capture the entire command. But "the wisest plans o' mice and men gang aft aglee." It
            was the unexpected that happened to them and they met a great surprise.
          During the night of the 17th, the Eighth Kentucky had come in with the supply train.
            This regiment bivouacked one hundred or one hundred and fifty yards to the left in a  little ravine, where there was a spring and every
            convenience for a concealed bivouac. It was out of sight of the approaching rebels, and
            was not seen by them until it opened fire on the charging squadrons. This Kentucky
            regiment was armed with Colt's revolving rifles and the men delivered their five shots
            in the face of the enemy before the latter was hardly aware of the difficulty that lay
            in his way. The enemy as soon as he saw that he was foiled, wheeled about, and galloped
            back badly demoralized and in far greater haste than he came. This handsome repulse by
            the newly arrived regiment saved Hawkins' brigade from a savage attack in the flank
            where it was least expected. Five of the enemy lay dead in front of the gallant band
            that had met their dash in such a cool determined manner. How many were wounded is not
            known, but it was quite evident that it was too hot a place for the rebel cavalrymen to
            tarry long. They did not wait upon the order of their going, but went at once, and that
            very quickly. After this dash by the enemy and its signal repulse he opened up with his
            artillery. One, shot, an unexploded shell, struck about thirty paces in front of the
            center of the Eighty-sixth. A number went whizzing and screaming over it, but did no
            damage whatever. The battery replied to his fire with interest and a fine show of
            artillery practice was made for a time, but the enemy soon again found it too hot and
            limbered to the rear, leaving the field to the despised "yanks." It was said by one of
            the staff officers, who was looking with a field glass, that Swallow's battery
            dismounted one of the enemy's guns and this closed the battle. This was the first fire
            to which the Eighty-sixth as a regiment was exposed,and the men showed genuine Hoosier
            grit and staying qualities. In short, it was there to stay until ordered away.
          General T. L. Crittenden at 8:30 o'clock on the evening of November 18. sent the
            following report of the Rural Hill affair to Colonel J. P. Garesche, Chief of Staff: 
              
                
                  
                    COLONEL:
                  
                  The company of cavalry I sent to look after the brigade at Rural Hill have
                    returned, and report that the cannonading of which I sent you notice in my note
                    of this date, at 8:45 a. m., was at Rural Hill; 
                    that the brigade there was attacked by Morgan's cavalry, who dismounted after
                    their first charge and fought as infantry, with artillery; that the fight lasted
                    about two and one-half hours, but with very slight result. We had no men killed
                    or wounded, but four of the Thirteenth Ohio were taken prisoners. The enemy had
                    four killed that were left dead on the field, and the men buried while the
                    cavalry were there; the number wounded unknown.
                
              
            
          
          No more fighting occurred at this place, although great care was exercised not to be
            caught napping by the wily enemy. This was the regiment's introduction to General John
            Morgan, who afterwards became so noted as a cavalry commander and a warrior on the side
            of the Confederacy. While he had been kept at bay, and Hawkins' brigade had not been
            shaken in the least, its position was considered rather more hazardous than it should be
            without a better prospect of gaining by it some signal advantage over the enemy,
            therefore on the 19th of November the brigade was ordered back from its advanced and
            exposed position. It was while at Rural Hill on the 17th that Lieutenant Colonel George
            F. Dick joined the regiment. He had been Major in the Twentieth and had already been
            through twelve battles, and his coolness under fire had created a most favorable
            impression, and inspired the men with great confidence.
          The morning of the 19th was rainy, which rendered marching disagreeable. Bivouacked at
            night near the Nashville and Murfreesboro pike some four or five miles out from the
            former place. On the 20th tents were put up and the regiment remained at camp. On the
            21st it had marching orders, and moved out about 2 o'clock, but did not go far until it
            was ordered back and pitched tents on the same ground which it occupied on the previous
            night. On the 23d the regiment was inspected. On the 24th a heavy detail was sent out
            with the teams to collect forage. The detail was busily employed and collected forage
            for the men as well as the horses and mules. On the 26th the regiment marched to within
            one and a half miles of Nashville and camped. The weather was now quite cool. On the
            28th the regiment moved out toward Murfreesboro and camped in one of the worst briar
            patches in the State of Tennessee not  very far from the
            Asylum for the Insane. Lieutenant Thomas, of Company H, who had been absent without
            leave, returned to the company on this day. On the 1st of December the regiment was out
            for picket, started and were ordered back for review. After being reviewed the whole
            regiment went on picket and was not relieved until about 8 o'clock on the evening of the
            2nd. On the 3d the day was spent in company drill in the forenoon, general inspection at
            2 o'clock and dress parade at 4:30. On the 4th in the evening the regiment went on
            picket again. It was now quite cold and wintry. It snowed a little in the evening. The
            next forenoon quite a snow fell and the next day it froze quite hard, but the regiment
            was sent out with the teams to collect forage. On the 7th it received marching orders.
            On the 8th the whole brigade was sent out on picket. On the 9th returned to camp and
            received orders to get ready to march. The 10th the command moved back about three miles
            toward Nashville. In the afternoon of the 11th the regiment being out on battalion drill
            an alarm was given. Those in camp were formed and marched out until the drill ground was
            reached, when the whole regiment went about four miles and finding no enemy or
            disturbance requiring its attention, returned to camp. On the 14th the regiment was sent
            out with a forage train. On the 15th it was again on picket during a great rain
            storm.
          On the 17th a detachment of twenty men from the Eighty-sixth left the regiment to
            become a part of the pioneer corps. They formed a part of Company I, Third Battalion
            Pioneer Corps, and never again served with the regiment. There should have been twenty,
            but owing to sickness some few of the detachment never reported. The detail included a
            commissioned officer—a Lieutenant who should have a good knowledge of civil
            engineering. Second Lieutenant James T. Doster, of Company I, a civil engineer of much
            experience, was the officer selected. Lieutenant Doster was a gallant, courteous, and
            accomplished gentleman, and as events subsequently proved and at that time were
            manifest, he should have been Captain of his company. He first  enlisted in the Tenth Indiana and was with his regiment in the battle of
            Mills Springs, where he was severely wounded in the foot and from which disability he
            was discharged: Recovering from this disability, as he supposed, he enlisted in the
            Eighty-sixth and was made Second Lieutenant of Company I. Lieutenant Doster died from
            the effects of his Mills Springs wound December 19, 1863.
          On the morning of December 12 at about 1 o'clock the regiment was ordered out and
            marched perhaps five miles east of its encampment. There it was met at the picket
            station by about 1,500 paroled prisoners who had been captured by the rebel General
            Morgan at Hartsville on the 7th. It was a most disgraceful surrender on the part of
            Colonel A. B. Moore, of the One Hundred and Fourth Illinois, who had command at that
            post. These men had been taken to Murfreesboro, stripped of their blankets and
            overcoats, and then marched up to the Union lines to be paroled. The Eighty-sixth
            escorted these men to Nashville, arriving there about daylight. It then returned to
            camp, reaching there at 11 o'clock, having made a march of probably twenty miles.
          In the above villainous manner was the Eighty-sixth "cat-hauled" from place to place in
            good or bad weather, with or without cause, moving frequently to satisfy the whim of
            some red tape upstart, who simply wished to show his authority. However the regiment
            remained in this immediate neighborhood in various camps and performing the several
            duties of foraging, scouting, picket and drill, until the army moved forward to attack
            Bragg's army at Murfreesboro on the 26th of the month. The weather had now become quite
            cool, and the men who were not warmly clad, and few were, suffered from the inclement
            weather. It would rain and snow alternately, and then perhaps be warm a day, rendering
            it still more disagreeable when it again turned cold. On the 6th of December the
            regiment received its first supply of ponchos, or rubber blankets, after which time the
            men were somewhat better protected from wind and rain when doing guard and picket duty,
            or milking the farmers' cows as they came up and around the picket station. Rubber  blankets like beans, bacon, and coffee came to be a prime
            necessity for the private soldier doing duty at the front.
        
        
          CHAPTER XI. THE BATTLE OF STONE'S RIVER.
          The Army of the Cumberland—Its Organization—The Eighty-sixth's Assignment
            —Moving Out From Nashville—Its Position—Plan of the
            Battle—Colonel Hamilton Relieved—The Movement on the Left
            Suspended—The Regiment Ordered to the Right—In the Vortex of
            Death—List of the Regiment's Killed and Mortally Wounded—The Second Day's
            Fight—Bragg Lost and Rosecrans Won.
          On the 26th of December, 1862, the Army of the Cumberland, General W. S. Rosecrans in
            command, moved from its camp near Nashville against General Braxton Bragg, the commander
            of the Confederate forces, who had taken up a strong position on Stone's River, near
            Murfreesboro, a point thirty miles southeast. General Rosecrans had been placed in
            command of this army, then known and designated as the Fourteenth Army Corps, Department
            of the Cumberland, on the 24th of October. For the sake of convenience but without
            authority from the War Department, as has been stated in a previous chapter, General
            Buell, whom General Rosecrans succeeded, had divided the Army of the Ohio into three
            corps and designated them as the First, Second and Third. The divisions and brigades
            were numbered consecutively without reference to the corps to which they were assigned.
            The First corps was placed in command of General A. McD. McCook, with the Second, Third
            and Tenth divisions; the Second corps under General Thomas L. Crittenden, with the
            Fourth, Fifth and Sixth divisions; and the Third corps under General C. C. Gilbert with
            the First, Ninth and Eleventh divisions. It was by this rearrangement of the army that
            the Eighty-sixth regiment received its first organization assignment. It was placed in
            the Second corps under  General Crittenden, in the Fifth
            division, with General Horatio P. VanCleve in command, and in the Fourteenth brigade
            commanded by Colonel Pierce B. Hawkins, of the Eleventh Kentucky regiment. The
            Fourteenth brigade was composed of the Thirteenth Ohio, the Eleventh and Twenty-sixth
            Kentucky, and the Forty-fourth and Eighty-sixth Indiana, and the Seventh Indiana
            battery. November 5 the three grand divisions of the army, hitherto known as the First,
            Second and Third corps, were by orders designated as the "Right Wing," the "Center" and
            the "Left Wing." On November 13 the Fifty-ninth Ohio which was in the Eleventh brigade,
            Fifth division, exchanged places with the Eleventh Kentucky, and Colonel James P. Fyffe,
            of the Fifty-ninth, succeeded Colonel Hawkins in command of the Fourteenth brigade.
            November 22 the Twenty-sixth Kentucky was sent to Bowling Green, leaving the Fourteenth
            brigade with but four regiments. General George H. Thomas, who up to November 5 had been
            second in command of the entire army, was assigned to command the "Center," General A.
            McD. McCook the "Right Wing," and General Thomas L. Crittenden the "Left Wing." December
            19 a change was made in numbering the divisions and brigades. The consecutive numbering
            was discontinued. Divisions were numbered, beginning with the First in each corps or
            grand division, and brigades in the same manner, beginning with the First in each
            division, and numbered from right to left. Flags of various designs were used to
            designate the different headquarters.
          Thus on the 26th of December the Eighty-sixth was in the Second brigade, Colonel J. P.
            Fyffe, commanding, the Third division, General H. P. VanCleve in command, and the "Left
            Wing" of the Fourteenth Army Corps, Department of the Cumberland, with General T. L.
            Crittenden in command. The officers in command of the regiments composing the brigade
            were Colonel W. C. Williams, of the Forty-fourth Indiana, Colonel O. S. Hamilton, of the
            Eighty-sixth Indiana, Colonel J. G. Hawkins, of the Thirteenth Ohio,  Lieutenant Colonel William Howard, of the Fifty-ninth Ohio,
            and Captain G. R. Swallow, of the Seventh Indiana Battery.
          On December 24, General Crittenden with Generals Thomas and McCook received a circular
            from General Rosecrans directing that ample provisions be made for prompt and rapid
            communication between theirs and his headquarters. Staff officers were to provide
            themselves with paper and writing materials, and orderlies and couriers should be at
            close distance, not more than a half a mile apart, and within sight of each other. This
            the General considered of vital importance to a combined movement. On the same day a
            general order was issued that the army should move at daylight on the
            25th—Christmas—but this was countermanded on account of the lack of forage
            on the "Left Wing." The order was renewed on the 25th for a general movement on the
            26th. The quiet of Christmas was therefore disturbed by the bustle and confusion
            incident to such an important move as all felt this one to be. Three days' rations were
            to be drawn and placed in haversacks, while two days' more were to be carried in the
            wagons. Twenty wagons were assigned to each grand division loaded with forage and
            provisions. All ammunition wagons, ambulances and hospital stores were to accompany the
            army. The sick were to be sent to the hospitals, and the Sibley tents, and all camp
            equipage and unnecessary baggage to be packed and sent back under the guard of officers
            and men unable to march to the front and parked inside the fortifications at Nashville.
            The boys were all busy, in addition to their other duties, in writing letters to friends
            at home. That was a heavy mail that started North the next day.
          A pleasant little incident occurred in the Fifty-ninth Ohio on Christmas evening which
            the Eighty-sixth was invited to witness. The citizens of Clermont, Ohio, had sent that
            regiment new colors, On their folds were inscribed "Shiloh," "Corinth," "Ivy Creek,"
            "Perryville" and "Crab Orchard," the battles in which the Fifty-ninth had participated.
            The presentation speech was delivered by  Colonel Fyffe.
            Remarks of a patriotic character were made by Colonel O. S. Hamilton, Captain C. F.
            Sheaff, and Captain W. C. Lambert. Music was furnished by the Second brigade band and
            patriotic songs were sung by the men.
          The morning of the 26th, so big with fate, dawned gloomily. The clouds hung like a pall
            over the wintry ' landscape. Great drifts of slowly moving mist lay along the valleys,
            while the rain came down in torrents, that gathered in pools in the roads, or ran in
            streams along the gullies. The reveille, as it rolled from camp to camp from the drums
            and bugles of more than a hundred regiments that covered the fields and hillsides, had a
            muffled sound in the murky atmosphere. Every officer and man was busy. At the appointed
            hour the "assembly" was heard. The Eighty-sixth was quickly formed. The bugles sounded
            "forward," and the brigades, and divisions, and corps, with swinging step filed out upon
            the roads. McCook led the right, Thomas the center and Crittenden the left. Although the
            Second brigade started at 8 o'clock, yet it was one of those jerky, exasperating
            marches, so that it did not get fairly started until 2 o'clock. The rain continued to
            pour, and the men huddled down under their ponchos like drenched chickens. The enemy was
            encountered at once and the occasional cannon shot or a sputtering dropping of musketry
            by the skirmishers of the First and Second divisions, which were in front, were
            evidences that the rebel nests were being stirred. All day long the steady columns
            toiled over the broken country and at night bivouacked in the wet fields. Such
            conveniences as shelter tents had not then been introduced, and the men were placed on
            their own resources to improvise protection from the storm during the night. The
            Eighty-sixth camped in some woods where there was much cedar. Their evergreen branches
            were brought into use both for shelter and beds and the night was passed in comparative
            comfort.
          The next day, Saturday, the 27th, dawned like the one before. The heavy clouds hung low
            and the rain continued to pour all day long. The brigade marched perhaps two hundred
            yards when it came to a halt, started again, and  again
            halted, and marched and halted alternately. At nightfall the command was but a short
            distance from where it started in the morning. Slowly the columns felt their way on,
            preceded by heavy lines of skirmishers, driving the sullen and stubborn enemy before
            them. The Second brigade of the Second division, and the First and Second brigades of
            VanCleve's division, were diverged from the main column of the corps and sent down the
            Jefferson pike, a road running directly east from the Murfreesboro pike beyond LaVergne.
            Late at night the advance reached Stewart's Creek and charged the rear guard of the
            enemy, thus saving the bridge, performing the work it was sent to do. The Eighty-sixth
            was kept on the move until 2 o'clock in the morning, although but six miles had been
            made, when it bivouacked for the remainder of the night, utililizing corn blades for
            beds which the boys found in a barn near by. How these blades had escaped the eagle eye
            of the cavalrymen of both armies is to this day an unsolved mystery.
          Sunday, the 28th, the troops generally rested. The Second brigade moved from its camp
            to the south about a half a mile, and formed in line of battle near to and west of
            Smyrna church, where it remained all day. In the evening the regiment with the brigade
            returned to their camping ground of the night previous, but the corn blades had turned
            up missing.
          No movement was made by the regiment on Monday, the 29th, until 1 o'clock, when the
            three brigades crossed the bridge which they had saved, turned south, and rejoined the
            main body of their command on the Murfreesboro pike. General Crittenden with his three
            divisions advanced that evening to within three miles of Murfreesboro, and bivouacked in
            order of battle not more than 700 yards from the enemy's entrenchments. The camp of the
            Eighty-sixth was between the railroad and the pike in a cotton field, and on ground now
            used as a National cemetery where more than six thousand Union soldiers have "spread
            their silent tents." General Palmer, who commanded the Second division, and was in the
            advance, reported that he was within sight of 
            Murfreesboro, and that the enemy was in full flight. General Rosecrans immediately sent
            an order to General Crittenden to move a division into the town. Colonel Harker's
            brigade of Palmer's division, was accordingly sent across Stone's River—the stream
            being almost everywhere fordable—and drove a rebel regiment back upon the main
            body in some confusion. Some prisoners were captured who reported that Breckinridge's
            entire division was there present. General Crittenden wisely took the responsibility of
            suspending the order until General Rosecrans could be further communicated with. The
            commanding general was convinced that a mistake had been made and Harker was withdrawn
            without serious loss.
          That night it rained heavily, drenching the soldiers to their skins. The following day,
            the 30th, was dark, gloomy and depressing, and was spent in anxious suspense as the men
            stood shivering in their lines. All day the Eighty-sixth waited, the boys securing as
            best they could their guns from the occasional showers that fell, and many can recall
            the spectacle of their muskets as they stood, butts up, with fixed bayonets forced into
            the soft soil—an ominous crop sprang in a single night from fallow-fields,
            awaiting the quick-coming harvest of Death. The orders were to be ready at a moment's
            notice. The lines were forming. Batteries were being placed in position. Dark columns
            stood noiseless in the rain. Hospitals were established in the rear, and the musicians
            and other non-combatants were detailed to bear the stretchers and attend the ambulances.
            Medical stores were unpacked and countless rolls of bandages placed at hand for use.
            Provision trains were brought up and rations issued. Bodies of horse galloped over the
            heavy fields. Staff officer and orderlies from General Rosecrans' headquarters, near
            where the Eighty-sixth stood in line, dashed away in different directions. The
            scattering fire of musketry which came up from the cedar woods far to the right, now
            swelling into full volleys, the heavy boom of cannon in front, the bearing back of
            wounded officers and men on stretchers, and the certainty of a great battle at  hand, combined to make all serious and thoughtful. The
            Eighty-sixth remained in its designated position, calmly awaiting the storm which was to
            burst on the following day.
          The army now stood with its left resting on Stone's River, and its right stretching off
            into the country as far as the Franklin pike, making a line three miles long. The
            country is undulating, much of it cleared but broken by rocky ridges overgrown with
            close cedar thickets. Besides, there were forests of oak and other deciduous trees.
            Perallel to the Union lines, and distant half a mile, lay Bragg's army, its right
            resting on the east side of the river, while the main body was on the west side. The
            night of the 30th set in with a keen, north wind, with heavy, threatening clouds. After
            dark an ammunition wagon was brought up and each man was supplied with sixty rounds of
            cartridges, after which such sleep and rest as were possible under the circumstances,
            were taken. The men slept on their arms. Each had his musket beside him ready to leap
            out at the slightest alarm. It was a weary night for the Eighty-sixth.
          Daylight of the 31st found the men standing to arms. There was no blast of bugle or
            clatter of drum for reveille. A hasty breakfast of coffee, hardtack and bacon was
            prepared and quickly eaten. Their morning service consisted in listening to the Adjutant
            read General Rosecrans' "Grace of God" battle order. From out the raw mists that for a
            time hung over the field came resonant cheers as the stirring words were read to
            regiment, detachment and battery. The General came riding by and in encouraging words
            said: "Boys, stand like men. Fire low, and make every shot count."
          Just here an unpleasant incident occurred, and as it is a leaf in the history of the
            regiment it is proper that it should be mentioned. Colonel O. S. Hamilton, who had
            command of the regiment, a courageous but inexperienced officer, was ordered by General
              VanCleve,* the division
            commander, to * It is the
              recollection of some of the men that this order was given by Colonel Fyffe, the
              brigade commander; others that it was General VanCleve.
             perform certain evolutions. After several attempts
            Colonel Hamilton signally failed, whereupon he was relieved of his sword and his
            command. The command of the regiment was at once turned over to Lieutenat Colonel George
            F. Dick, a skillful, experienced and well trained officer who had served both as Captain
            and as Major in the Twentieth Indiana regiment, and came to the Eighty-sixth with his
            commission on the 17th of November. The action of General VanCleve was wholly a surprise
            to both Hamilton and Dick, but a step that met the approval of the subordinate officers
            and the men of the regiment. In justice to Colonel Hamilton and to his memory it should
            be stated that this unfortunate episode was entirely due to his inexperience, and was no
            reflection on his courage or bravery. As an officer he was heroic, intrepid and
            fearless, but was entirely without military knowledge either natural or acquired. He was
            bold to recklessness as he exhibited by his subsequent actions. Mortifying as this must
            have been to a man of his proud spirit he nevertheless asked, and was granted,
            permission to accompany the regiment into the approaching engagement in a subordinate
            capacity. Most valiantly did he carry himself throughout. Colonel Fyffe, in his report
            of the battle, generously makes special mention of him, and says Colonel Hamilton,
            although unacquainted with military matters, was present throughout assisting all in his
            powers. This affair, however, greatly humiliated and chagrined him and he soon
            relinquished command of the regiment. He returned to his home at Lebanon where he died a
            few years ago a disappointed and broken-hearted man.
          It was this ground that General Bragg had deliberately chosen whereon to stand and
            fight. General Rosecrans had planned that General McCook, who commanded the "Right Wing"
            should occupy the most advantageous position possible, and fight to hold it. General
            Thomas was to open with skirmishing, and engage the enemy's center. General Crittenden,
            of the "Left Wing" was to cross General VanCleve's division over the river at a place
            known as the lower  ford, covered and supported by the
            sappers and miners, and to advance on Breckinridge who commanded the enemy's left, the
            only rebel division on that side of the river. General Wood's division was to follow
            General VanCleve by brigade, and cross at the upper ford. Wood was to take position on
            VanCleve's right, and the two divisions, supported by Palmer, were to fall with
            overwhelming force in front and flank, crush Breckinridge, sweep through Murfreesboro,
            and gain the rear of the enemy's center and left, push him off his natural line of
            retreat, and thus destroy his entire army. The plan was a skillful one, but Bragg,
            however, had already decided to fight his own battle and not the one Rosecrans had
            planned. He had a similar one of his own, by which he hoped to double up his adversary's
            right by a secret concentration of a heavy force against it. To this end he had massed
            heavily on his left where Hardee was in command, with orders to attack McCook at
            daylight. Bragg struck he first blow.
          According to the plans of General Rosecrans, McCook, however strongly assailed, was to
            hold his position for three hours, and to recede—if attacked in overwhelming
            force—very slowly, and to fight desperately, which he had undertaken to do.
            Bragg's order was, that at day-break the whole line, beginning at the extreme left, with
            Hardee's corps, and followed by Polk's, should move forward on McCook's extreme right,
            and bear it back, crumbling it in the retreat, till Rosecrans' army should stand with
            its rear to the river. In double lines, the rebel hosts came on, swift and terrible as
            in rolling billows. General Johnson who commanded a division in McCook's corps on the
            extreme right, and who was wholly unprepared for the sudden onset, was crushed with a
            single blow, the enemy sweeping over his batteries with wild hurrahs. Jeff C. Davis's
            division was next hurled back over the field. Like a swift succeeding wave the last
            division of the "Right Wing," Sheridan's, was struck with the same desperation. Sheridan
            fought with equal persistence and determination. The slaughter was horrible. Three times
            did the determined enemy advance, and as often was 
            compelled to fall back. Finally Sheridan's ammunition gave out, and he, too, was
            compelled to fall back, leaving nine guns, which he could not get through the dense
            cedar thickets, in the hands of the rebels. The "Right Wing" was now all gone, and the
            onset that had borne it backward fell with unbroken fury on the "Center." General
            Rousseau, who commanded a division of reserves, was ordered up to the support of the
            right "Center" which was then in peril.
          The movement, according to General Rosecrans' original plan, had begun on the "Left" by
            General VanCleve. Colonel Sam Beatty's First brigade, Colonel S. W. Price's Third
            brigade, and Captain G. R. Swallow's Seventh Indiana battery, had moved across the river
            and formed in line. Colonel J. P. Fyffe's Second brigade had just reached the river, and
            was in the act of crossing, when an order flew to VanCleve to suspend the movement,
            leave one brigade at the river, send another with a battery on double quick time to the
            rear to save the wagon train which had been attacked by Wheeler's cavalry, and another
            to the support of the right. Colonel Price was left at the river, Colonel Beatty was
            sent on double quick to assist General Rousseau, who by this time was hotly engaged.
            Colonel Fyffe's brigade with Captain Swallow's battery were sent to the rear in hot
            haste. Knapsacks, blankets, overcoats and even canteens were scattered to the winds on
            the way. After tramping on a hop, skip and jump gait for about a mile in pell mell order
            the brigade came out into an open field, formed in line of battle perpendicular to the
            road, on the left. The rebel cavalry had captured the train, but the corn field was soft
            and their progress was slow. A few shots from Swallow's battery sent Wheeler flying over
            the fields and the train was recaptured. At this point Colonel Fyffe received an order
            from General VanCleve to join the First brigade which had taken position on the right of
            General Rousseau. Back the brigade started on double quick. The fugitives by this time
            had darkened the fields, and the panic stricken trains had blocked the roads. On the
            brigade went through wild confusion and demoralized stragglers. The cedar thickets were
            ablaze with musketry,  the earth was black with broken
            battalions, among which artillery wagons were plunging, and the chaos and wreck of a
            seemingly lost battle-field were to be seen in evidence everywhere. Into that vortex of
            death the Eighty-sixth went.
          The brigade was formed in two lines, the Forty-fourth Indiana and the Fifty-ninth Ohio
            in front, and the Thirteenth Ohio and the Eighty-sixth Indiana in support. The four
            regiments advanced through the tangled cedar thicket as best they could. There was but
            little undergrowth, but the whole surface was a continuous ledge of outcropping rock on
            which only the hardy cedar could find foothold and sustenance. In their immediate front
            there was a lull. They emerged from the thicket into an open field of sedge. The
            occasional musket shots which came across that field were but the advance messengers of
            the impending storm. The lines advanced, halted and laid down. They advanced again and
            again until the skirt of the wood was reached. The front line had advanced some distance
            in the wood while the second was at the fence. Every nerve was at its highest tension.
            The ball opened. Then it was work, desperate and furious. The enemy came up in
            magnificent order, four lines deep, and his opening fire was like the opening jaws of
            hell. It had been discovered that the brigade had been sent beyond supporting columns.
            It was a duel to death, but the murderous flanking fire was more than human flesh and
            blood could withstand, and the brigade, rent and distorted, reeled and fell back. It was
            a scene appalling in its atrocity and was enough to daunt the stoutest heart. The two
            color bearers of the Eighty-sixth were shot down and its colors left on the field.* At every step men fell like wheat
            before the sickle. The Eighty-sixth lost more than half its force. The enemy had swept
            everything before him thus far and doubtless felt that with renewed effort the
            successful issue of the *
              The colors fell into the hands of Sergent John F. Lovin, Company B, Third Confederate
              regiment, which was in Woods' brigade, of Cleburne's division, Hardee's corps.
             battle was within his grasp. Emerging from the woods with
            yell after yell, firing as he came, the enemy rushed forward in the attempt to cross the
            open field and drive back a new line, of which the remnants of the torn and bleeding
            Second brigade formed a part, and which stood in the way to final victory.
          That the brigade was without support on the right was a blunder for which in the
            confusion and excitement of the rapid and varying movements perhaps no one particularly
            should be censured. General VanCleve, in his report says that he had information from
            General Rosecrans that General Rousseau, on his left was driving the enemy. This
            information was accompanied with an order to press him hard. It was in compliance with
            these orders that the First and Second brigades were ordered to advance. Colonel Fyffe,
            in his report, says he had assurances that Colonel Harker, who commanded a brigade in
            Wood's division, would support his right. Fyffe then says: "The division began advancing
            down the slope of the cedar ridge south of the road, passing Colonel Harker's on my
            right, beyond the foot of the slope. After passing his brigade, which did not move, my
            right flank became exposed, with strong indications of a heavy force approaching in
            front, extending beyond my right flank. As we continued advancing, I sent three
            different messengers by my aides, calling Colonel Harker's attention to my exposed
            flank, and at length reported in person to General VanCleve. While doing this the
            Sixty-fifth Ohio, which, it appeared, had been lying down at the edge of the field, rose
            to their feet where a force was needed. Supposing it would remain there, I passed back
            to my position, to see the Sixty-fifth march by the right flank back to Colonel Harker's
            left." Major H. N. Whitebeck, of the Sixty-fifth Ohio, * says his regiment marched by the right * It may be stated here that the
              Sixty-fifth Ohio is the regiment of which Lieutenant Colonel Hinman, the author of
              that most popular and widely read book, "Corporal Si Klegg and His Pard," was a
              member. Colonel Hinman at that time was a Lieutenant in Company E, and is mentioned by
              Colonel Harker his brigade commander, for conspicuous gallantry on the skirmish line.
              In the oceans of war literature that have flooded the country since those memorable
              days the statement is ventured that none equals in popularity that book of 700 pages.
              It is popular because it so vividly portrays the actualities and the every-day life of
              a million volunteers.
             flank to the support of the Sixth Ohio battery. It must
            have been that movement to which Colonel Fyffe refers when he saw the Sixty-fifth march
            away by the right flank. Colonel Harker says: "While this movement was being executed, a
            staff officer from the command on my left (Fyffe's) reported a strong force of the enemy
            in his front. I replied thay my right was in danger, and that a strong force and battery
            were in front." Colonel Fyffe's statement that he appealed to Colonel Harker for support
            is thus confirmed by Harker himself, but it seems his own command was in a most
            precarious situation. Fyffe's brigade was in advance of Harker's a considerable
            distance, thrown out upon assurances and in the belief that it would have sufficient
            support. When Colonel Fyffe discovered that he was not to have the promised support, he
            sent Lieutenant Temple, of his staff, to Lieutenant Colonel Dick with orders to wheel
            the Eighty-sixth to the right, and place it in the woods to secure his flank. "Before
            the order reached him," continues Colonel Fyffe, "the enemy appeared coming through the
            woods." The brigade fell back, but in the recession its distance to the rear was as much
            too great as was its distance to the front, and in turn Harker's left flank became
            exposed. With his right threatened, and his left already turned, Harker's brigade
            receded. As before stated a new line was formed in the cedar thicket, a stand was made
            and the ground hotly contested, and the enemy driven back across the field.
          As the sun sank to rest that 31st of December his last look fell on a ghastly
            spectacle. The earth, torn, trampled and red, lay piled with thousands—some still
            and calm, as if in sleep, others mangled and blown into fragments, while bleeding arms
            and legs, without owners, lay scattered on every side. Dead horses and shattered gun
            carriages helped to swell the frightful wreck, over which darkness, in mercy, drew its
            pall.
          But the cessation of the battle and the coming of night did not release the
            Eighty-sixth and its colleagues of the brigade and division from their position. They
            were no longer required to lie prone on the cold, bare ground, but  were compelled to stand without fire, with a hoar frost falling, until the
            coming of the new year, when they were allowed to fall back about a half a mile where
            fires were built from a convenient cedar fence and where they lay till morning.
          Four months before the Eighty-sixth had entered the field with a thousand men.
            Disability, disease and death had decimated its ranks until that morning it numbered
            368, including officers. The aggregate loss on that bloody day was 194, ten more than
            half. When the roll was called on New Year's morning, 1863, but one hundred and
            seventy-four officers and men answered to their names.
          In the list of dead on the field were the following heroic names: 
              Company A.—First Lieutenant George W. Smith,
              " "—Thomas S. Hester,
              " "—Robert W. Myers,
              " "—Richard A. Stowers,
              " B.—Lewis Heintz,
              " "—George E. Armor,
              " "—Richard C. Crowell,
              " "—Anthony M. Saxon,
              " C.—Edward Blanchfill,
              " "—William J. Boord,
              " "—Derrick V. Labaw,
              " "—William H. H. Martin,
              " "—Benjamin Trullinger,
              " D.—William Lamb,
              " "—Jackson Jacobs,
              " "—Nathan C. Pringle,
              " E.—Abram Fisher,
              " "—James H. Clinton,
              " "—William B. Fleming,
              " F.—John M. Wilson,
              " "—William C. Stogdill,
              " "—Robert H. Creamer,
              " "—Henry W. Davis,
              " "—Edwin P. Stephenson,
              " "—James O. Tolin,
              
              Company F.-James M. Wilkins,
              " G.—James Cambridge,
              " "—William T. Whitesell,
              " H.—Timothy S. Roush,
              " K.—Martin L. Williams—30.
            
          The following are the names of those who were mortally wounded:
              Company A.—Floyd N. Worrell,
              " "—John A. Feeley,
              " B.—John A. Cozad,
              " D.—Charles W. B. Gilger,
              " "—Jamis Guest,
              " "—John A. Johnson,
              " F.—George Baldwin,
              " "—John C. Beard,
              " H.—Levi Lidy,
              " I.—John H. Stook,
              " K.—Bartholomew Green—12.
            
          Lieutenant Colonel Dick reported thirty-three enlisted men killed. This included those
            who died of wounds the following day. Others died from the same cause after his report
            had been submitted, so that it would make of killed and mortally wounded a total of 41.
            The wounded numbered 54, many of whom were afterwards discharged. Five officers were
            wounded, though none seriously. Ninety-nine men and two officers were captured.
          Lieutenant Colonel Dick, who had command of the regiment, thus speaks of this part of
            the battle in his report to Colonel James P. Fyffe: "My command
                arrived in front of Murfreesboro at 8 p. m., December 30, 1862. On the following
                morning the regiment numbered 368, rank and file. About noon of December 31, with
                the brigade, we were marched in line of battle across the Nashville turnpike, about
                one-half mile south, across an open field to the skirt of a heavy woods, in which
                the enemy lay concealed in heavy force. My regiment was on the extreme right of the
                brigade. We were halted behind a fence at the edge of the woods, to await the
                arrival of troops to come up to support us on the right, who failed to come. Our
                right was totally exposed to  the enemy, who
                immediately attacked us in overwhelming numbers in front, our right flank extending
                around partially to the rear of our right wing. Our regiment fought bravely until
                their ranks were being rapidly cut down and thinned, when we fell back to the
                turnpike road, where a portion of them again rallied with portions of other
                regiments of the brigade, and drove the enemy back. Our loss in this engagement was
                as follows: Commissioned officers killed, 1; wounded, 5; missing, 2; enlisted men
                killed, 33; wounded, 54; missing, 99. Total number of officers killed, wounded and
                missing, 8; enlisted men killed, wounded and missing, 186. Aggregate, 194. Both
                color bearers were shot down and the colors left on the field."
          Major Dwight Jarvis, who commanded the Thirteenth Ohio of the Second brigade, in his
            report to Colonel Fyffe, says: "On Wednesday at 8 a. m., our
                regiment, under command of Colonel Joseph G. Hawkins, was ordered in from outpost
                duty, and took our place in line. Soon after, we started for the south side of
                Stone's River, but got but a short distance when, by your orders, we countermarched
                at double-quick a distance of about one mile, to a corn-field on the right of the
                Murfreesboro road, to repel an attack of cavalry upon our train. Our lines were here
                formed, my regiment occupying the right of the Second brigade. The enemy being
                driven from the field by our cavalry and artillery, my regiment was not engaged, and
                about 10 o'clock under your directions, took a position in the woods south of the
                corn-field. My regiment was now ordered to cover the Fifty-ninth Ohio, which with
                the Forty-fourth Indiana, formed the first line of attack, my regiment with the
                Eighty-sixth Indiana on its right, forming the second line. In consequence of the
                unevenness of the ground and the density of the thicket, it was difficult to keep
                our lines properly, but, on emerging from the woods (cedar brakes) into the open
                field beyond we advanced regularly to the edge of the next woods. The first line
                having advanced some twenty yards into the woods, my regiment was ordered to lie
                down. Now it became evident that the enemy was attempting to outflank us upon the
                right; and this was reported to you, but just at that moment our first line was
                attacked, and it was compelled to fall back in some disorder and over our men, who
                were lying close to the fence. At this moment our gallant Colonel fell, mortally
                wounded, while encouraging the men to keep cool and fire low; and the command
                devolved upon myself. I held the position until the enemy completely outflanked us,
                and was then compelled to fall back in disorder to the line of reserves, where I
                rallied my command, and this time drove the enemy back, they being now in the open
                field, while we had the advantage of the cover of the woods. We inflicted
                considerable loss upon them in killed and wounded, besides capturing some thirty
                prisoners. My loss in the engagement  was quite
                severe, Colonel J. G. Hawkins and Second Lieutenant J. C. Whittaker being killed;
                together with twenty-seven enlisted men. Captain E. M. Mast, Lieutenants John
                Murphy, John E. Ray, S. C. Gould, John Fox (since died), and Thomas J. Stone were
                wounded, and sixty-eight enlisted men, besides thirty-nine missing."
          Lieutenant Colonel William Howard, who commanded the Fifty-ninth Ohio, in his report to
            Colonel Fyffe, says: "On the morning of that day (December 31)
                my command was formed at 4 o'clock in accordance with previous orders, and with the
                balance of the brigade, started at 8 o'clock to take position on the left, when we
                received orders to march immediately to defend the wagon train against the attack of
                the enemy, which was done with promptness, and they were driven back with loss, and
                the whole train was saved. We then received orders to march back and take position
                on the right of Colonel Beatty's command, in front, as our forces were hard pressed
                at that point, in line of battle, and moved forward to attack the enemy; and after
                moving across the woods we came into an open field, which we moved rapidly across
                until we reached the woods, and my skirmishers soon discovered the enemy in heavy
                force and in strong position in front, and fired upon him and fell back to the line,
                which I immediately ordered forward and made the attack; and after firing upon them
                several rounds, and holding them in check for some time, we were forced back by
                superior numbers about twenty paces, when, by the prompt assistance of my officers,
                we succeeded in rallying the regiment and took position behind a fence, and then
                poured yolley after volley into the advancing ranks of the enemy, and held them in
                check until Major Frambes, upon the right, informed me that we were being flanked
                upon that wing and that the balance of the brigade was falling back when I gave the
                order to fall back, inclining to the right in a skirt of woods, and thereby
                protecting to a great extent, a flanking fire also. My officers again coming
                promptly to my assistance, we succeeded in rallying again, and moved to the right,
                through the woods in front of the enemy, and by a well directed fire checked his
                onward movement, and held him in that position, when we moved forward and drove the
                enemy from the field with great slaughter and in complete disorder. * * We held our position until darkness closed the controversy of the
                day."
          Lieutenant Colonel Simon C. Aldrich, who commanded the Forty-fourth Indiana, reported
            to Colonel Fyffe as follows: "We went into the field on December
                31, 1862, with 316 men, officers included. We took our position, by your order, in
                brigade on the right, and marched in line of battle through an open field south of
                the pike. In passing through this field we discovered the enemy making a flank  movement on our right, in a wood bordering upon the
                field. Intelligence was conveyed to you, and, as I understand, by you to our
                division commander. We made a stand at the edge of the wood in our front, but were
                soon ordered to advance, which we did. After entering the woods our skirmishers were
                ordered in, as the line of the enemy was in sight. We still advanced to within, as
                near as I could judge, one hundred yards of their line, and opened fire. They
                replied and advanced their line; at the same time the flanking force opened a
                galling cross fire upon us. We held the position as long as we could do so without
                sacrificing our whole regiment; we then fell back to our battery and formed line of
                battle. We were ordered by General VanCleve to remain here until farther orders. We
                soon had orders from you to join the brigade at the right, which we did. Here we
                formed a new line, and remained until some time in the night, when we were ordered
                to march to the left again, where we remained through the night. 1 must here mention
                that at the first rally at the rail fence was the last seen of Colonel Williams. I
                suppose him to be taken prisoner. Our loss as it stands now is, 19 killed, 56
                wounded, and 25 missing."
          These are the reports of the four regimental commanders. The history of one regiment is
            the history of the four. There is no disagreement in the different reports but each
            makes his report from a different point of view. It will be seen from the reports of
            Major Jarvis and Lieutenant Colonel Aldrich that the Forty-fourth Indiana and the
            Fifty-ninth Ohio were in the front line and were supported by the Eighty-sixth Indiana
            and the Thirteenth Ohio when the brigade was thrown into that seething cauldron of
            death. It was a blunder, but perhaps unavoidable, due largely to the demoralized and
            panic stricken "Right Wing" which had been driven back with frightful loss. The
            recession of the divisions of the right had exposed the flank of the "Center" to which
            VanCleve's division had gone to support, and with the commanders of nearly all grades
            calling for assistance the wonder is that the error was not more grievous and the
            results more disastrous.
          After recounting the movements of the brigade when the order was received
            countermanding the movement across Stone's River, and double-quicking to the rear to
            save the train, Colonel James P. Fyffe, who commanded the Second brigade, says in his
            report: "At this point an order was received from General
                VanCleve to return  to the Third division, and form on
                the right of the First brigade in two lines to support it; that Colonel Harker would
                support my right. The order was immediately complied with; the division began
                advancing down the slope of the cedar ridge south of the road, passing Colonel
                Harker's on my right, beyond the foot of the slope. After passing his brigade, which
                did not move, my right flank became exposed, with strong indications of a heavy
                force approaching in front, extending beyond my right flank. As we continued
                advancing, I sent three different messengers (messages) by my aides, calling Colonel
                Harker's attention to my exposed flank, and at length reported in person to General
                VanCleve. While doing this the Sixty-fifth Ohio, which, it appeared, had been lying
                down at the edge of the field, rose to their feet in the place where a force was
                needed. Supposing it would remain there, I passed back again to my position, to see
                the Sixty-fifth march by the right flank back to Colonel Harker's left. The firing
                in front of my first line, composed of the Fifty-ninth Ohio and Forty-fourth
                Indiana, was getting to be heavy, and the skirmishers, running in, reported a heavy
                force advancing through the woods, outflanking my right. Lieutenant Temple, of my
                staff, was sent at once to Lieutenant Colonel Dick with orders to wheel his regiment
                to the right, and place it in the woods to secure my flank. Before the order reached
                him the enemy appeared coming through the woods."
          At a meeting of the corps commanders at headquarters during Wednesday night it was
            decided to fight the battle out on this line. It is said that General Crittenden asked
            permission to cross the river with the "Left Wing" and fight the enemy as originally
            contemplated. All acknowledged that the prospect looked gloomy. The enemy held
            two-thirds of the battle-field, and had in his hands one-fifth of Rosecrans' artillery.
            About seven thousand men, one-sixth of the whole army, had disappeared from the field,
            and were among the killed, wounded and captured. It was believed that the enemy would
            renew the attack in the morning. General Rosecrans, finding that he had ammunition
            enough, made up his mind to fight it on that very spot. It was a clear, cold December
            night, but, after midnight, the heavens became overcast, and the bitter rain came
            pitilessly down on the weary ranks, and on the dead and wounded that burdened  the field. Having decided to make the stand the commanding
            general began a disposition of his troops. General VanCleve had been wounded, and
            Colonel Sam Beatty, of the First brigade, assumed command of the Third division. On New
            Year's morning the entire Division crossed the river and took position in line of battle
            according to the original plan. The Third brigade, Colonel S. W. Price, held the right;
            the Second brigade, Colonel J. P. Fyffe, the left; the First brigade, now commanded by
            Colonel B. C. Grider, stationed in support of the center. The Forty-fourth Indiana and
            the Thirteenth Ohio were placed on the front line, and the Fifty-ninth Ohio and the
            Eighty-sixth Indiana on the second. Thus the forces rested during the day with
            considerable picket firing in front, and artillery duels at intervals, whereby some
            casualties occurred, but there was nothing like a serious attack. The question of
            rations became a serious matter, and as many" of the men had had nothing since the
            morning before, they did not hesitate to sample a horse or mule steak from the animals
            which had been killed in battle. The more frugal, those who held on to their haversacks,
            notwithstanding their store was scant, were not reduced to this extremity. At night the
            men lay down on their arms again, without removing their shoes or even unclasping their
            cartridge belts, ready to leap out at the slightest alarm.
          Friday morning, January 2, was devoid of special incident, save a most terrific
            artillery duel far to the right. The firing on the skirmish line began early and
            continued lively throughout the morning. Shortly after noon it became evident that an
            attack was imminent. Colonel Fyffe then ordered the Eighty-sixth Indiana and the
            Thirteenth Ohio into the front line, deflecting the Eighty-sixth back, and placing it
            behind a fence to be ready to sweep an open field in front. At 3 o'clock the skirmishers
            reported that the enemy was throwing down fences, as if making ready to charge. At 4
            o'clock a double line of rebel skirmishes was seen to advance from the woods in front of
            Breckinridge's position and move across the fields. Behind them came  heavy columns of infantry, and it became evident that the
            rebel right wing was bearing down on the already decimated ranks of the Third division.
            They passed the open cotton fields, in three heavy lines of battle, the first column, in
            three ranks, six men deep—the second supporting the first—and the reserve
            column last. Three batteries accompanied this imposing mass, as it came down in splendid
            order. They came on with steady step and even front, and then, like a swollen torrent,
            flung themselves forward against Price's brigade. Their strength was overwhelming. In a
            few minutes the brigade gave way, and the reserve consisting of three regiments of the
            First brigade, the Nineteenth Ohio, and the Ninth and Eleventh Kentucky, were then sent
            up and fought gallantly. But the three regiments were too weak and fell back, fighting
            to the river. Fyffe's brigade, to the left, was not attacked directly in front, but the
            recession of the right brigade forced it to yield position. The enemy, however, received
            a heavy flank and oblique fire from the Eighty-sixth and Forty-fourth Indiana and the
            Thirteenth Ohio. But General Rosecrans was prepared for this movement. He hastily massed
            fifty-eight cannon on an eminence on the west side of the river, where they could
            enfilade the successive columns as they advanced. Their opening roar was terrific, and
            the crash of the iron storm, through the thick-set ranks, was overwhelming. It was
            madness to face it, yet the rebel columns closed up and pressed on; but, as they came
            within close range of musketry, their line seemed to shrivel in the fire that met it.
            They had now got so near that the men could be seen to topple over separately, before
            the volleys. A third and last time, they staggered forward, the foremost ranks reaching
            to the water's edge. But here they stopped-it was like charging down the red mouth of a
            volcano. Their broken and discomfited columns turned back on their path, closely pursued
            by the Third division which had rallied, together with the First and Second divisions of
            Crittenden's corps and the fresh troops from the "Right" and "Center." They chased the
            flying foe for a half mile, cheering as they charged. Darkness ended  the fight, and the Eighty-sixth with its brigade and
            division camped on the field.
          Lieutenant Colonel Charles D. Bailey, of the Ninth Kentucky, in some recollections of
            this famous battle printed in the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette, of
            January 6, 1889, after giving a vivid account of the part taken by the First brigade,
            composed of the Ninth and Eleventh Kentucky, the Nineteenth Ohio, and the Seventy-ninth
            Indiana, makes some comments which will be read with interest. Colonel Bailey at that
            time was the Adjutant of the Ninth and will be remembered as a most handsome and gallant
            officer, and as courteous as he was brave. He writes: From the
                beginning of the enemy's advance until his shattered columns regained the cover of
                the woods from which they had emerged covered a period of forty-five minutes—a
                segment of time crowded with all that goes to constitute war in its most terrible
                aspect. In that brief space some three thousand men were killed and wounded,
                Breckinridge losing two thousand and the Union army about half that number. There
                was some criticism at the time of the battle, the spirit of which has been somewhat
                crystalized in history, that VanCleve's division did not make the resistance it
                should against Breckinridge's onslaught. While losses are not an infallible
                indication of the fierceness of a fight or the bravery of those engaged, they do
                show the degree of exposure, and judged by this test VanCleve's division at least
                did not give ground before it was vigorously assailed. Its loss in the series of
                engagements aggregated 1,530, an average of a fraction over 117 to each of its
                regiments. * * The division was simply run over by an
                overwhelming force specially organized for that object, and the redeeming feature
                was the gallant advance and desperate resistance of the three reserve regiments, and
                the fact that they did advance and make the fight they did was no inconsiderable
                factor in the ultimate defeat of the rebel plan. * * In many
                respects the assault of Breckinridge on that day bore a striking resemblance to the
                famous charge of Pickett at Gettysburg, six months and one day later, and with the
                possible exception of numbers engaged and the stake at issue, is as much entitled to
                National recognition as the later event. Like Pickett's, the failure of Breckinridge
                was fatal to the assaulting army, with whom in each case the first day's successes
                had been of a nature to promise great results. Like Lee, Bragg withdrew after this
                bloody repulse, and what up to that moment had been a drawn battle with the odds in
                favor of the Confederates, by the result of this one movement became a Union
                victory."
          Lieutenant Colonel George F. Dick in his report of the 
            movement of the regiment on the 1st and 2d days of January, says: "On the following morning, (January 1), we were marched some mile and a half
                across Stone's River to the front, and placed in line of battle early in the day,
                where we skirmished with the enemy all day, lying on our arms at night. The next day
                we occupied the same ground, skirmishing with the enemy till 3 p. m., when the enemy
                in vast numbers attacked the right of our line, composed of the First and Third
                brigades of our division, which maintained the ground, fighting obstinately for some
                time, when they were forced to yield to superior numbers, and fell back, when our
                regiment fell back to the high piece of ground, near a house on the hill, some
                hundred rods to the rear, where we again made a stand, again rallied with other
                troops, and drove the enemy from the field, retaking and holding our former
                position."
          The reports of Lieutenant Colonel Aldrich, of the Forty-fourth Indiana, of Major Dwight
            Jarvis, of the Thirteenth Ohio, and of Lieutenant Colonel William Howard, of the
            Fifty-ninth Ohio, are substantially the same and concur with the report of Lieutenant
            Colonel Dick. Colonel Fyffe, the brigade commander, makes special mention of a number of
            officers and men for their conspicuous commendable conduct throughout the trying ordeal
            of the many days' fighting. Among those of the Eighty-sixth were Colonel O. S. Hamilton,
            heretofore alluded to, Lieutenant Colonel George F. Dick, Major J. M. Dresser, wounded
            in the first day's engagement, E. D. Thomas, who was an orderly on his staff, and color
            bearers Benjamin Trullinger and Nathan Coffenberry, who were both shot down, the first
            killed instantly and the latter mortally wounded in the fight of the first day.
          In his report to the War Department General Rosecrans says that he fought the battle of
            Stone's River with the following forces: Infantry, 37,977; artillery, 2,223; cavalry,
            3,200. Total, 43,400. His losses were as follows: Officers killed, 100; enlisted men
            killed, 1,630; officers wounded, 405; enlisted men wounded, 7,397; officers captured,
            44; enlisted men captured, 3,673. Showing an aggregate loss of 13,249. He thinks the
            enemy had 15 per cent. advantage in his choice of ground and knowledge of the country,
            and he estimates Bragg's strength at 62,720 men. On the contrary  General Bragg reported to the Confederate War Department that his aggregate
            effective strength was 37,712, including infantry, artillery and cavalry. If this be
            correct, and there is no reason to doubt it, the two opposing armies in point of numbers
            were pretty equally matched. He reports his losses as follows: Officers killed, 123;
            enlisted men killed, 1,171; officers wounded, 659; enlisted men wounded, 7,286; officers
            captured, 46; enlisted men captured, 981. Showing an aggregate loss of 10,266. Bragg
            estimated Rosecrans' strength to be 70,000 men. He also estimates Rosecrans' killed at
            3,000, his wounded at 16,000 and claimed to have captured 6,273 prisoners, making a
            total loss of 25,273. All of which goes to show that in a guessing contest it is not
            safe to rely on the estimates of the adversary. Wild as Rosecrans was of the strength
            and losses of Bragg, he is still nearer the mark than Bragg was in estimating the
            strength and losses of Rosecrans. It is but fair to say that the Union losses were
            greater than the Confederate losses. Bragg's loss was the greater in killed and wounded,
            while Rosecrans' loss was the greater in missing or captured. Rosecrans' army was so
            disabled that it could not make an effective pursuit. But this does not change the facts
            of history that the battle of Stone's River, was lost by Bragg and won by Rosecrans.
          By changing his plan of battle from the offensive to the defensive Rosecrans held
            Bragg's at first victorious columns in check, and actually turned defeat into victory;
            and if he did not, like Alexander enter Babylon, "the oldest seat of earthly empire," he
            did with the Army of the Cumberland, enter Murfreesboro, and what was left of the
            Eighty-sixth Indiana regiment was a part of that victorious army. Who among those that
            participated in the stirring scenes of that battle have forgotten the story? Oh, what a
            story it is! There is no orator's tongue that can tell it, no painter's brush that can
            depict it, a story of devotion to country and to liberty, to law and to order, that
            shall go down in history side by side with the heroic deeds of ancient and modern times.
            In song and story, and marble tablet, in statues of brass and bronze, the story of
            Stone's River will be told for  all the ages, for Liberty
            will not forget her children until Liberty herself shall die.
        
        
          CHAPTER XII.  WITHIN CONFEDERATE LINES.
          A Trip Through Dixie—From Murfreesboro to Chattanooga—To Atlanta and
            Montgomery—From There to Richmond—In Libby Prison—How the Days Were
            Spent—Released on Parole and Finally Exchanged.
          As has been stated the Eighty-sixth had ninety-nine men captured on the 31st day of
            December, the first day's battle of Stone's River. They were taken in squads of from two
            to a half a dozen while in the effort to rejoin the main body of the regiment which had
            fallen back from that fateful fence. The well formed columns of the enemy had passed
            over them and they were generally taken in charge by stragglers, who no doubt claimed
            great glory for capturing prisoners already within their lines. In charge of officers
            and guards the prisoners were marched through the battle-field over which the "Right
            Wing" had been driven. And what a field it was! The ploughed and trampled earth, the
            shattered trees, the fields and woods strewn with dead horses, broken artillery wagons,
            and dead and dying men, looked as if all the forces of earth and heaven and hell had
            been striving for mastery in the fearful wreck. By the time they reached the Franklin
            pike several hundred had been collected, and they were started on double quick in the
            direction of Murfreesboro. When they reached the Stone's River crossing they were
            granted a breathing spell, but were soon again on the way, though at a more moderate
            gait. Upon arriving at the city they were placed in the court house yard which was then
            enclosed with a stone fence. Prisoners continued to arrive until nightfall, and it was
            not until the  excitement of the day began to subside did
            they realize their loneliness. That night was spent in the court house yard with neither
            fire nor food, and having been relieved of ponches, blankets and overcoats by rebel
            officers who had headquarters in the court house, there was much suffering both from
            cold and hunger.
          Morning came and they were transferred to an old mill in the southern part of the city,
            where they remained during the day, which was New Years, 1863. That long cold day was
            one of extreme distress. At sunset, the prisoners were marched through town and
            quartered in an old school house lot where for the first time since their capture they
            were permitted to have fire. Several barrels of flour were rolled in and divided among
            the men, each man receiving about a pint. Lucky were the men who had cups or vessels of
            any kind to store it. Water was furnished, and a dough was made on any kind of a board
            that could be picked up regardless of its cleanliness or uncleanliness. This soft mass
            was wound around sticks and held before the fire to bake. It required no appetizer to
            dispose of that half-baked paste, but like Oliver Twist, they wanted more. While the
            fire contributed somewhat to the comfort of the prisoners, yet the night spent here was
            one of sleepless unrest.
          Next morning, January 1, they were placed aboard platform cars headed in the direction
            of Chattanooga. The weather was cold, and being without blankets or overcoats, the ride
            was anything but pleasant, in fact was one of absolute discomfort. The train reached
            Chattanooga about 2 o'clock in the morning. In the meantime rain had commenced falling
            which but added to the discomforts of traveling on a gravel train. The prisoners were
            marched to the banks of the Tennessee river under the shadow of Lookout Mountain,
            afterwards the scene of historic interest. They wandered around in the dark and the rain
            until daylight, when axes were furnished, and it was not long until bright fires blazed
            up from the logs cut from trees which stood on the ground, around which the men huddled
            awaiting promised and expected rations, during the entire day. Just as the  chickens were going to roost—there were none
            there, however—wagons, with unsifted corn meal and sugar, drove up, and these two
            articles were distributed. A load of spiders—old-fashioned pot metal
            skillets—were thrown off, and in a driving rain the men prepared the corn meal for
            use. Before the baking was done orders were received to march immediately. Confederate
            orders, like Federal orders, were not at all times promptly executed, so it was not
            until 3 o'clock in the morning when the lines were formed and the prisoners under guard
            started for the Atlanta depot. This time they were placed aboard box cars. The cars were
            of the most miserable description, for freight and cattle. The men were packed so close
            that they could neither sit nor stand with any comfort. They slept somewhat after the
            style of sardines in a box, though not so soundly. With fifty or sixty human beings
            crowded into so small a space, carpeted as the cars were, the atmosphere soon became
            stifling. By the time the train reached Atlanta, 138 miles south of Chattanooga, which
            was the evening of the next day, those cars had all the appearance of having passed
            through the cedar thickets at Stone's River. At Atlanta the prisoners bivouacked in an
            open lot, and each man received a small loaf of light bread.
          From Atlanta they were taken to West Point, and from there to Montgomery, Alabama, 172
            miles southwest. Without so much as changing cars the engine was hooked on to the rear
            end of the train and started back. Arriving at Atlanta a camp was established two miles
            from the city. The men were divided into companies of ninety, and an orderly sergeant
            .appointed for each company. Surgeons passed through the camp looking after the sick,
            prescribing for some and sending others to the hospital. The stay here, however, was
            short, as orders came to march. At nightfall the men fell in line and marched to the
            depot where cattle trains were in waiting to take them, they knew not where.
          Daylight on the morning of January 11, found them at Dalton, one hundred miles north of
            Atlanta. At this point the road forks, one line leading to Chattanooga and the other
            through East Tennessee to Richmond. Over which the men 
            would be sent was the question of the hour. When the train pulled out over the East
            Tennessee and Virginia railroad all knew that their destination was determined. Sunday,
            January 11, was passed in Knoxville. Here as well as all along through East Tennessee
            the loyalty of the people was plainly evident, as was shown in numerous instances. On
            the 12th the train bearing the prisoners reached the Wautauga river where the bridge had
            been burned by Colonel Carter a few weeks before. Colonel Carter commanded a force of
            Union cavalry and had made a raid through East Tennessee destroying the bridges over the
            Wautauga and Holstein rivers. This was a part of the plan of General Rosecrans to
            prevent re-enforcements for Bragg from Richmond. At the Wautauga the prisoners
            disembarked, waded the river and marched nine miles, the distance between the two
            rivers. After wading the cold waters of the Holstein, nearly up to their necks, and
            waiting perhaps two hours a train pulled in to carry the men "on to Richmond."
          On the morning of January 16, the train arrived at the capital of the Confederate
            States. The prisoners were marched across James river, up through the city, amid the
            taunts and jeers of the throngs that lined the sidewalks. Finally they stood outside the
            walls of the well known warehouse used in times of peace by Libby & Son, whose sign
            was still suspended above the door, and gave a name to this prison which will endure for
            generations. They were assigned to one of the rooms in this large building where were
            confined several thousand, though they had free access to all the rooms. The windows
            were secured by iron bars, such as adorn prison cells. The building was surrounded by
            sentinels, whose beats were on the pavement below. No one was allowed to put his head
            close enough to the bars to look down on the street, under penalty of being shot. The
            rations issued to the men consisted of the half of a very small loaf of light bread, and
            a small piece of tainted meat from cow or horse or mule, nobody knew which, on one day
            and the broth from this meat, thickened with rice and some times with beans, the next
            day. This, once a day, constituted  the rations while in
            Libby prison. What they lacked in quantity was made up in strength, the rice and bean
            bugs being abundantly able to sustain life. Here the prisoners became intimately
            acquainted with a friend which stuck closer than a brother. Twice or oftener each day he
            helped them by his presence to while away a portion of the long dreary hours, and they
            even took off their clothing to catch sight of him. The time was spent day after day in
            such diversions as usually engage soldiers in camp. Many whiled the hours in repining,
            and every day some one or more were transferred to the hospital, located elsewhere, many
            of whom died. Old letters from home were read and reread. Scraps of newspapers and stray
            leaves from old books were perused until worn out. The roll was called twice a day by a
            sergeant who was attended by a strong guard well armed. And thus the days passed. Prayer
            meetings were held every day, and the fervent invocations that were offered doubtless
            proved effectual. At 3 o'clock on the morning of January 29, all except commissioned
            officers filed out of Libby prison for the Petersburg depot not knowing whither they
            were bound. When the train started in the direction of City Point from Petersburg all
            knew that their prison days were numbered. At City Point they were paroled. Flags of
            truce boats were in waiting. They were taken down the James and up the Chesapeake to
            Annapolis where a parole camp had been established. They remained at this camp six
            weeks, when they were transferred to Camp Chase, near Columbus, Ohio, traveling by boats
            to Baltimore and thence over the Pennsylvania railroad. After a stay of two weeks here
            they were sent to Indianapolis and assigned quarters at Camp Carrington, where seven
            months before they had been mustered in and then known as Camp Murphy. An eight days'
            furlough was granted the men to go to their homes.
          Thus terminated the prison experience of the men who were captured at Stone's River, an
            experience brief and mild compared with the months of sufferings endured by those who
            were in captivity afterwards, but an experience fraught with extreme hunger, pinching
            cold and almost unendurable  hardships. The story of rebel
            prison pens is one which every true lover of his country might well wish were never
            written, but it is a part of human history, and as nearly a hundred men of the
            Eighty-sixth had a slight personal experience it is here given. Those who survived and
            were not physically disabled by the cruelties of which they were victims were duly
            exchanged, and by the 30th of May had all rejoined their regiment, and shared in its
            marches and bivouacs, its skirmishes and battles, until its muster-out more than two
            years later.
        
        
          CHAPTER XIII.  STONE'S RIVER TO CHICKAMAUGA.
          Six Months at Murfreesboro—Camp Life—How The Time Was Employed—The
            Long Stay An Absolute Necessity—The Eighty-sixth Receives Really Its First
            Military Instruction—Punishment of a Deserter—A Piece of Somber
            Romance—Other Incidents—March to McMinnville.
          On the night of January 3, 1863, General Bragg evacuated Murfreesboro. He commenced the
            movement stealthily at 11 o'clock, gathering up his men and guns so cautiously that it
            was not known that he was gone until broad day-light next morning. He was in
            Shelbyville, thirty miles away, by noon on Sunday, the 4th. The facts are that General
            Rosecrans' army was not in a condition to make an effective pursuit. While the battle
            resulted in a victory for the Union army, it was a victory dearly bought. General
            Rosecrans had lost, in killed and wounded, nearly nine thousand men, besides over three
            thousand prisoners, nearly a third of his effective strength. He had lost, in addition,
            fifty pieces of artillery, and over five hundred and fifty artillery horses, so that
            farther pursuit was not only inadvisable but impossible. Bragg retired so hastily as to
            leave 2,600 of his sick and wounded with 200 medical and other attendants. In fact,  General Rosecrans found the town full of wounded soldiers
            of both armies who were greatly suffering for medical attention and the necessary
            comforts. Hospital appliances were furnished the Confederate surgeons so that they could
            properly care for their wounded men, while of course his own wounded and sick were not
            neglected.
          The army now settled down into camp life to recuperate and prepare for future
            operations. The Eighty-sixth with its brigade were assigned to a position on the Maney
            place, north of the town and east of the Lebanon turnpike. The ranks of the regiment had
            been decimated to such an extent that it presented all the appearance of a mere squad.
            While the loss of the entire army had been only about one-third, the loss of the
            Eighty-sixth had been more than one-half, thirteen per cent. of which had been killed
            and mortally wounded, fifteen per cent. wounded so seriously as to disable them for
            duty, and twenty-seven per cent. had fallen into the hands of the enemy, leaving but
            forty-five per cent. of those who had responded at roll call but five days before. It
            was indeed a time for sadness and discouragement. But the remnant of the regiment
            bravely set to work. The camp was arranged according to regulations, and men and
            officers entered upon their duties in all their diversified forms—building
            fortifications, scouting, foraging, escorting trains, picketing and drilling.
          The life of a soldier in time of war presents two especial characteristics, and each of
            these is an extreme. The soldier is either in the midst of change and excitement in
            which every power of mind and body is brought into the most active play possible, or his
            life is one of the most utterly monotonous. True, during what is termed inactive life
            there is a regular routine of roll calls, guard mounts, and drills that serve to prevent
            complete stagnation, but these become devoid of interest or pleasure to the very large
            majority. Camp life becomes a weariness and a burden in a very short time. The soldier
            who has tasted of the excitement of a campaign, and the pursuit of a foe, where danger
            is present all the time, even though he may not like the 
            severe work of the battle-field, will soon complain of the dullness and routine of the
            every day duties of a regulation camp.
          The Eighty-sixth from the time it left Indianapolis on the previous 7th of September,
            up until its entry into Murfreesboro, the first days in January, 1863, had known nothing
            of the monotonous side of the soldier's life. True, it was in camp a few days at
            Nashville before starting on the Stone's River campaign, but during those few days the
            time was fully occupied in the preparations that were going on most energetically for
            entering upon that important movement. The first real and complete experience of camp
            life that was had by the regiment, and in fact the only one that it had during its
            entire service, was the six months in camp at Murfreesboro. The time here was, however,
            well spent, and the fruits of the work done were of incalculable benefit not only to the
            Eighty-sixth, but to the entire army. It could not have been possible, for any army to
            have been brought together with the same number of men as were then in the Army of the
            Cumberland where there was so little knowledge of drill, of guard or picket duty, as
            then existed in that army.
          Beginning with the commanders of regiments and from those down to the privates in the
            ranks, there were but few who knew anything of these duties. No one realized the
            situation in this respect more thoroughly than did Major General Rosecrans. Immediately
            upon the establishment of the camps in and about Murfreesboro, the most stringent orders
            were issued by the general commanding in regard to daily duties. After breakfast, which
            was per force an early one, there was the policing of the camp, then guard mount, and
            after that the formation of the picket details, and going on picket. Being near the
            enemy the picket details were heavy and frequent. After the guards and pickets were
            disposed of came the drill call, in the forenoon, for the company. Each company was
            formed and moved out to the extensive adjacent drill ground under command of the company
            officers. It was an animating sight to see each company of the several regiments  of the brigade to which this regiment was attached, out for
            the two hours' drill. The regimental commanders were also on the field to see that there
            was no shirking on the part of either the men or their officers. The novelty soon wore
            off, however, and the drills had altogether too much method in them to be amusing.
            Moreover, many of the company officers took great delight in the drill, and by their
            enthusiasm brought their men to take an interest and a pride in the work. Cold or hot
            the day, the drills were warm, and persistent.
          A rest was had at noon for a soldier's dinner. The afternoons of four days of the week
            were devoted to regimental drill and two days of the week to brigade drill. In
            connection with these drills for the purpose of making the officers more efficient, and
            at the same time of ridding the service of men who had no mental adaptability to the
            practical work of military tactics, and yet held commissions, General Rosecrans
            established a military commission before which officers received a forceful invitation
            to appear. It did not take officers long to realize that they must be prepared to meet
            this commission and pass the examination, or they would have to retire from the service.
            Even in this matter, however, human nature was brought out very thoroughly. There were
            men holding commissions not in the Eighty-sixth alone, who never seemed to realize the
            honor that properly belonged to the commission in the armies of the United States, when
            that commission was worthily and intelligently held. This class of men, without pride
            either for themselves or their commands, or too lazy to study when ordered before the
            board, ignominiously failed, and the service was soon rid of them. Some there were who
            had pride in their commissions, prized the position, and worked, though they could not
            put the principles laid down in the tactics into actual practice. There was one officer
            who was an absolute failure on the drill ground, but when ordered before the board,
            passed a most wonderfully satisfactory examination in answering the questions. He had
               absolutely committed his tactics to memory, from
            beginning to end.
          Another order was issued to the infantry regiments concerning drills. It was this: A
            detail of ten men, one from each company of the infantry regiments, were ordered to
            report to some special battery of artillery, for drill in artillery tactics, and after
            the first ten had remained for a certain length of time they were returned to their
            regiments, and another detail of the same number was sent. These artillery details were
            continued during the time of the Murfreesboro camp, and it proved of immense benefit to
            the entire army in subsequent campaigns. On more than one battle-field when the numbers
            on the guns of a battery were too greatly diminished to remain in action, men stepped
            out of infantry regiments and manned the guns almost as effectively as if they had been
            originally mustered as artillerymen, and thus by their efficiency in that branch of the
            service, saved, in many instances, the guns and the day.
          Those who got their instructions through General Rosecrans orders for picket duty, and
            put those instructions into active practice on the outposts during the cold and stormy
            nights in January, February and March, 1863, have doubtless remembered, and will
            remember to the day of their death, just exactly how that particular portion of a
            soldier's duty should be performed. There was possibly sufficient danger surrounding the
            troops to make them reasonably alert, but in addition to this there was no telling when
            the "Grand Rounds" would touch the line, and then woe be to the officer who was not
            fully awake and alive to his duty, and grief to the non-commissioned officer or private
            who did not respond promptly when the call to "fall-in" was given. Rosecrans, or some
            member of his staff, was apt to come on the line at any time of the day or night. On
            such occasions officers and men who were conscientiously trying to perform their duties,
            even though they might make mistakes, received nothing but kind treatment, and plain
            straightforward instructions from the General; but the instructions would not be given
            the second time without being preceded or followed  with a
            rebuke. The duty of the pickets, and all the minuteness of detail were as completely put
            into daily and nightly practice as they were afterward on the field of Chickamauga, or
            during the siege of Chattanooga or on the Atlanta campaign.
          Murfreesboro was decidedly and emphatically a camp of instruction. Sunday there was no
            company, or battalion, or brigade drill, but there was the Sunday morning inspection,
            the guard mountings in the morning, guard duty and the dress parade in the evening, as
            on week days. For those who were not on guard duty, Sunday was spent in a general
            cleaning up, a kind of washing and scrubbing day, and when that was over, there were
            letters to write to those who had been left at home.
          The monotony of this daily routine of camp was occasionally broken by the regiment
            being ordered out on a foraging expedition that was always much enjoyed. On those
            foraging expeditions everything that could be eaten by man, horse or mule, was brought
            in. There was not much, however, excepting corn, or horse or mule feed, that remained on
            the wagons when they were turned over to headquarters on the return. There was, however,
            always a great deal more cooking in camp for a day or two after such an expedition than
            there was immediately preceding it. There was on such occasions an odor of fried
            chicken, and fresh pork, and yams, and fresh potatoes, and some of the messes could be
            seen indulging in such delicacies as honey and preserved fruits, which were not
            furnished on requisition by the Quartermaster or Commissary sergeants. By this time,
            however, in the war period, officers had learned to heed the advice said to have been
            given by St. Paul, to "eat what was set before you asking no questions," for certain it
            was the men for the most part saw to it that their officers were supplied as well as
            themselves. On these forage expeditions there was not unfrequently a tilt with the rebel
            cavalry or with a band of guerillas that would furnish enough danger and excitement to
            fully satisfy for the time being, any who had a special craving for that kind of
            excitement.
          The camp at Murfreesboro was a reasonably healthy  camp
            and would have been more so had all the officers and men realized from the outset the
            necessity of cleanliness in person and clothing and quarters. More than fifty per cent.
            of the sickness at Murfreesboro was caused by disregard of sanitary measures in the
            early part of the encampment. These methods for the preservation of health had to be
            taught just as the tactics and guard duty were taught. To the credit of the Eighty-sixth
            regiment, be it said, it did learn, though some of the companies were longer in grasping
            the situation than others. Human nature is in evidence in the army, as well as in civil
            life. Mankind learns, by and by, but often, too often, many lives are lost before the
            knowledge is gained.
          This army at the time of entering Murfreesboro had not been formed into Army Corps,
            although it was divided into three grand divisions. On January 9, 1863, by virtue of
            General Order, No. 9, War Department, the troops of the Army of the Cumberland were
            organized into Army Corps, which were numbered the Fourteenth, Twentieth and
            Twenty-first. Major General George H. Thomas was assigned to the command of the
            Fourteenth corps, formerly the "Center;" Major General A. McD. McCook was assigned to
            the Twentieth corps, which had been the "Right Wing;" and Major General Thomas L.
            Crittenden was assigned to the command of the Twenty-first corps, previously the "Left
            Wing."
          On going into position about Murfreesboro, General Rosecrans placed the Fourteenth
            corps in the center of the army and fixed its lines and camp across and between the
            Woodbury, Bradyville, Manchester and Shelbyville turnpikes; the Twentieth corps its left
            joining the right of the Fourteenth corps at the Shelbyville road and extending in a
            continous line across the Salem pike to the right until it had reached Stone's River;
            Crittenden, with the Twenty-first corps, joined his right upon the left of the
            Fourteenth corps and extending to the left so as to cover the Liberty and Lebanon
            turnpikes resting his left at Stone's River. Thus posted, with the right and left
            resting at the river  above and below the town, and
            extending in a semi-circle, it was protected from any attack of Bragg's forces whether
            from the east, south or west.
          It should be borne in mind that the time was midwinter, and that the army had to endure
            during the months of January and February such terrible storms of rain and snow that it
            was impossible for a campaign of any extent to be made. The roads, too, away from the
            turnpikes, were impassable, and even the turnpikes over which the supplies had to be
            brought from Nashville, were torn up and broken to such an extent by army wagons and the
            artillery, that it was only by the severest effort that light loads of supplies could be
            brought up. Another fact to be recorded here, is that the base of supplies for General
            Rosecrans' army was Nashville, and that the only railroad between that city and
            Murfreesboro had been torn up by Bragg's army on its retreat, the bridges had all been
            burned, and that, therefore, wagons were the only vehicles whereby the army could be
            supplied with subsistence, ammunition or clothing. The supplies thus brought for such an
            army, even only the distance intervening between these two cities, was meager indeed,
            until later on the general government had caused the railroad to be rebuilt.
          It was therefore a matter of necessity under all these circumstances that the army
            should remain in camp, at least a sufficient length of time to rebuild the road, and to
            establish at Murfreesboro a depot of supplies from which to draw when an advance should
            be made. An improved condition of the roads, and sufficient supplies for the men and
            animals, as well as ammunition, were vital matters to be considered in the decision as
            to an advance.
          Owing therefore to the enforced stay at Murfreesboro, and in order to guard against the
            contingency of an attack in force by Bragg, General Rosecrans began at once to
            strengthen his position against any possibility of disaster. He first, as nearly as
            possible, relieved the army of the care of the sick and wounded by sending them back to
            Nashville and northward. Those who were too sick, or too severely  wounded, to be moved, were placed in hospitals, which he had established in
            unoccupied buildings in the town. The work of fortifying his position was also entered
            upon without delay and with great vigor. The most thorough and complete line of forts
            were planned and built. Earthworks were thrown up covering almost the entire front of
            the army, and all were so thoroughly constructed during the occupation of Murfreesboro
            that it would have been impossible for an army to have taken it by a direct assault.
            Murfreesboro became under the direction of Rosecrans, and by the work of the army, an
            impregnable fortress, which served during the remainder of the war as a valuable
            position.
          In the construction of these works the Eighty-sixth had but little to do, save and
            except in the performance of guard and picket duty for those who performed the labor.
            The work that was there done, however, was of much value to all the regiments, in that
            it gave a general idea as to the construction of earthworks, which they afterwards
            utilized, especially during the siege of Chattanooga and upon the Atlanta campaign. The
            importance of building the fortifications was made sufficiently apparent to the men by
            reported or rumored advances of the enemy, and by occasional raids that were being made
            around Rosecrans' army by Wheeler's and Morgan's Confederate cavalry. Brigades of the
            Union army were sent out from time to time on reconnoissances, and each time came in
            contact with portions of Bragg's army which were sufficiently strong to show that there
            was great confidence in their strength and position. The portion of the country in front
            of the Twenty-first corps, however, appeared to be free from any Confederate force,
            except small detachments of cavalry which were met on some of the foraging
            expeditions.
          For more than eight months after the army was formed into corps the Eighty-sixth was in
            the Twenty-first army corps, the brigade and division remaining unchanged. The corps,
            division and brigade commanders were the same as before, except that Colonel James P.
            Fyffe, who commanded the Second brigade, on account of failing health, obtained a  leave of absence. The command of the brigade then devolved
            upon the senior officer, which was Colonel George F. Dick, of the Eighty-sixth, who
            retained it until the army was reorganized at Chattanooga during the following
            November.
          Colonel Dick having been assigned to the command of the brigade, Lieutenant Colonel J.
            M. Dresser, who had been promoted from Major, should have taken charge of the regiment,
            but at the battle on the 31st of December Lieutenant Colonel, then Major, Dresser, was
            wounded in both legs, had two ribs fractured and his shoulder dislocated by the fall of
            his horse. This disability rendered him unfit for active service, when on June 2 he
            resigned his commission. Captain J. C. Dick, of Company C, who had been promoted to
            Major, then assumed command of the regiment, and soon thereafter received his commission
            as Lieutenant Colonel. At the same time Captain Philip Gemmer, of Company E, received a
            commission as Major, but for some cause was not mustered until the following April.
          Surgeon J. S. Elliott having resigned on September 26, Assistant Surgeon Joseph Jones
            was promoted to the vacancy on November 15. Flavius J. VanVoris, a private of Company I,
            a thoroughly educated and well read young physician, was on December 2, commissioned as
            one of the Assistant Surgeons, the medical staff then being Jones, Walton and
            VanVoris.
          Adjutant C. P. Rodman on May 29 was promoted to the Captaincy of Company H, and E. D.
            Thomas, a private in Company E, succeeded to the vacancy, and served as such until the
            regiment was mustered out.
          Kersey Bateman served as Quartermaster until September 2, 1863, when he resigned.
            Robert Underwood succeeded Bateman as Quartermaster.
          The changes in the line officers during the spring, summer and fall of 1863 had nearly
            been as great proportionately as among the field and staff. Several of the officers had
            incurred disabilities from the hardships they had undergone and were compelled to
            resign. In addition to Captain John Seager, of Company G, and Lieutenant William H.
            Lynn, of  Company K, who had resigned in November and
            December, there occurred during the first two months of the new year the resignations of
            Captain Milton Bell, of Company H, First Lieutenant Jacob Palmer, of Company F, and
            Second Lieutenant Oliver Boord, of Company C. In May Chaplain W. S. Harker, and First
            Lieutenant Jackson Hickson, of Company D, resigned, the latter on account of wounds
            received at Stone's River, as did Lieutenant Uriah Thomas, of Company H, in June, First
            Lieutenant Samuel Douglass, of Company G, and Second Lieutenant William J. Ness, of
            Company H, in July. These officers all quitted the service honorably and with the
            regrets of their comrades, both officers and men.
          During the earlier months of 1863, especially January and February, the official
            mortality throughout the army was great. Shoulder straps fell like the leaves of autumn
            after a hoar frost. General Rosecrans made use of every means to promote efficiency. He
            was lavish of praise to the meritorious, and utterly ruthless toward the undeserving. By
            General Orders, No. 30, dated February 24, he dishonorably dismissed fifty-two officers
            of all grades from Colonel down to Second Lieutenant, for various offenses, such as
            absence without leave, cowardice in the face of the enemy, drunkenness, disobedience of
            orders, gross neglect of duty, incompetency and other peccadillos detrimental to
            military discipline, two of whom were from the Eighty-sixth, Colonel O. S. Hamilton, and
            First Lieutenant John S. Armitage, of Company B, the former for incompetency, and the
            latter for abandoning his company in the face of the enemy. The fault for which Colonel
            Hamilton was publicly disgraced was expiated in the front line at Stone's River, and
            though his own officers and men could not refuse their admiration for his heroic
            conduct, yet General Rosecrans was inexorable. In July Captain Nelson R. Smith, of
            Company G, was cashiered by order of court martial on a charge of drunkenness, while
            Captain William C. Lambert, of Company I, met a like fate by a similar process, on a
            charge of cowardice. First Lieutenant John Gilliland, of Company I, was arrested  and tried by court martial, charged with being a deserter
            from the Fifty-first Illinois regiment.
          The story of Lieutenant Gilliland has in it all the elements of somber romance and is
            of thrilling interest. He was born in the northeastern part of Montgomery county,
            Indiana, where he grew to manhood with absolutely no education. Though he could neither
            read nor write, yet he was a magnificent specimen of the physical man, naturally
            intelligent, industrious and of kindly temper. It so happened that in 1861 business took
            him to Illinois, and to the town in which the Fifty-first regiment of that State was
            being organized. Being an intensely loyal man he enlisted. The Fifty-first went at once
            to the front, and Gilliland saw active service in the first year of the war, proving
            himself a brave and true soldier. In 1862 he was allowed to come home on a furlough.
            While home the Eighty-sixth was organizing at LaFayette. Gilliland went up to that city
            with the boys from his neighborhood, and having some knowledge of drill his services
            were called into requisition. Not knowing the enormity of the offense of desertion he
            made the proposition to the members of Company I that if they would elect him First
            Lieutenant he would enlist with them. Ignorant of the fact that he was still in the
            service they accepted his proposition. As First Lieutenant of Company I he commanded the
            respect of his men and the confidence of his superior officers. His ability and bravery
            were repeatedly demonstrated, and but for his illiteracy would have made an officer of
            marked distinction. All went well with him until the battle of Stone's River. Just
            before this memorable engagement Captain Lambert, of the same company, was taken sick
            quite suddenly and was unable to enter the action. The command of the company,
            therefore, devolved upon Gilliland and he led the men through the battle with
            distinguished bravery. Just here Gilliland made a great mistake. After the battle he
            very foolishly preferred charges of cowardice against Lambert, alleging that he had
            feigned illness in order to avoid the dangers of shot and shell. If Gilliland had not
            been living in a glass house himself his action might have been reasonable,  but as it was it proved his ruin. Captain Lambert, who was
            cognizant of Gilliland's military record, promptly retaliated by preferring charges of
            desertion against his accuser. He was placed in arrest, and tried by court martial at
            Chattanooga during the latter part of 1863. In the meantime Gilliland was permitted to
            march in the rear of the regiment nominally under guard. The President of the court was
            Lieutenant Colonel Brown, of the Sixty-fourth Ohio. The court arraigned "Private John I.
            Gilliland, Company E, Fifty-first Illinois Volunteers," on two charges, the first of
            which was desertion, and the second was violation of the 22d Article of War in that he
            enlisted and accepted a commission in the Eighty-sixth Indiana Infantry, he being at the
            time a deserter from the Fifty-first Illinois Infantry. To the charges and
            specifications Gilliland pleaded "not guilty." The finding of the court was in both
            charges and in all the specifications, "guilty." Then followed this awful sentence: "And
            the court does therefore sentence him, Private John I. Gilliland, Company E, Fifty-first
            Illinois Volunteers, 'to be shot to death with musketry at such time and place as the
            Commanding General may direct, two-thirds of the court concurring therein.'" Before the
            finding of the court martial could be promulgated it must necessarily be transmitted to
            the War Department for approval or modification. June 4, 1864, more than a year after he
            had been arrested and eight months after he had been arraigned, the Secretary of War
            modified the sentence, upon the recommendation of his commanding officer to executive
            clemency, on account of his good conduct in battle, so as to restore him to duty in
            Company E, Fifty-first Illinois Volunteers. Finally, the order reached the Eighty-sixth
            while the army was in Northern Georgia. Gilliland did not wait to hear the modification
            of the sentence. There being no strict watch over him he experienced little difficulty
            in escaping from the army that very night. From that time on nothing was heard from him
            by his comrades-in-arms or by his family for more than a quarter of a century. One
            summer evening, along about 1890, many years after the war had passed into history,  Tilghman Bailey, of Company I, was standing in front of his
            farm house, a few miles from Clark's Hill, and watching his cattle feeding in the
            adjoining fields. As he rested there content with his prosperity, he was approached by
            an old, decrepit, stooping and travel-stained stranger, who was evidently suffering from
            consumption. He was poorly clad, but when he spoke, addressing to Bailey some
            common-place remark, his voice and something in his manner brought up a flood of
            half-forgotten recollections. Sometime, somewhere he had seen this strange man before.
            Conversation was continued on timely topics, and suddenly to Bailey as they talked, came
            the identity of the man, causing him to exclaim involuntarily: "Isn't your name John
            Gilliland?" The old man's face lighted up at the recognition. Bailey, of course bade him
            stay and he shared with him the hospitalities of his home. Here the story of the
            wanderer was told. When he left the regiment he made for the mountains, away from the
            railroad and from any thoroughfare. Stopping at the house of an old mountaineer he told
            him his true story. The rustic of the forest and hills gave him shelter and assured him
            that he should be protected from both armies. And there he remained for twenty-five
            years. At last, overtaken by ill health and becoming weary of his voluntary exile, and
            stirred by the recollections of his youth and the memories of kindred and friends, he
            ventured a visit to his old home, hoping that he would, unmolested, be permitted to die
            in the land of his birth. The fruition of his hopes were realized, for in less than a
            year afterward John Gilliland was "honorably discharged" by the Great Commander. Verily,
            truth is sometimes stranger, than fiction.
          Promotions followed these vacancies thus created. In Company A, Second Lieutenant R. A.
            Williamson was made First Lieutenant in place of George W. Smith killed at Stone's
            River, and Orderly Sergeant Perry T. Gorham was made Second Lieutenant. Second
            Lieutenant Jeremiah Haugh succeeded John S. Armitage as First Lieutenant of Company B,
            and Orderly Sergeant Matthew McInerney was made Second Lieutenant. James Gregory, a
            private of  Company I, was promoted to the Captaincy of
            Company C, and Sergeant T. F. Brant was made Second Lieutenant. In Company D, Second
            Lieutenant H. J. Gass was promoted to First Lieutenant, and Sergeant J. G. DeTurk to
            Second Lieutenant. Second Lieutenant J. R. Moore was promoted to First Lieutenant in
            Company E, and private Mahlon J. Haines to Second Lieutenant. In Company F, Second
            Lieutenant R. W. Coolman was promoted to First Lieutenant and Sergeant Wilson H. Laymon
            to Second Lieutenant. Sergeant L. V. Ream was first made Second Lieutenant and
            afterwards Captain of Company G, and Sergeant L. G. Cowdrey, First Lieutenant. Orderly
            Sergeant J. R. Carnahan was promoted to Second Lieutenant of Company K, and advanced to
            Captain of Company I. Second Lieutenant John M. Yount was promoted to First Lieutenant
            of Company K. These are substantially all the changes made in the roster of the officers
            during 1863. Subsequent resignations and promotions will be given in their appropriate
            place.
          It had been months since a good portion of the army had been paid, and General
            Rosecrans became quite urgent in his appeals to Washington requesting that a paymaster
            be sent to each brigade, at least one to each division, to remain in the field and
            attend to preparing the rolls and the payment of troops. The correspondence is spicy. In
            one of his letters to Secretary Stanton he wrote: "I have no hesitation in saying that
            it is time the public service ceased to suffer from such whimsical or worse management.
            There is a screw loose somewhere. My army ought to be paid off while the roads are bad."
            He estimated that it would require $1,700,000, and as the money was in Washington he
            could not see why it could not be used. He brought the paymasters and the money, and the
            troops were paid while the army lay at Murfreesboro.
          Governor Morton, ever watchful of the interests of Indiana soldiers, had devised what
            is known as the allotment system, by which his men could send their money home in
            safety. The plan was in all respects similar to bank drafts—  except that the men signed the allotment rolls which showed the name of the
            soldier, the amount, and the person to whom sent, with post office address. The bill
            giving the plan legal recognition was introduced by Senator Henry S. Lane, but by an
            oversight it carried with it no appropriation to put it in operation. The Governor,
            always equal to the occasion, furnished from his military contingent fund the means to
            defray the expenses. Rev. T. A. Goodwin was appointed Allotment Commissioner from
            Indiana, and the Eighty-sixth, as well as all other Indiana regiments, availed
            themselves of this plan to send their money to their families. The system gradually
            extended to other States until it was generally adopted throughout the army.
          A conspicuous feature of the Second brigade was its baud. Its music was always
            inspiring. Morning, noon and night it made the camp reverberate with its lofty,
            patriotic and soul-stirring, strains, and the encore of cheers which followed made the
            welkin ring. The band had seen service until its instruments needed to be replaced with
            new. About the first of April a movement was set on foot to raise money for this
            purpose. Captain Sims circulated a subscription paper through the Eighty-sixth and
            received a donation of $66.50, the other regiments of the brigade contributing their
            share. The new instruments were procured and carried until the band was mustered
            out.
          Shelter tents supplanted the cumbersome Sibleys during April, the order being issued on
            the 12th. Wall tents were allowed field, staff, quartermaster, hospital and line
            officers, but shelter tents were issued to the men. This tent is simply a piece of stout
            cotton cloth about two yards square, with buttons and buttonholes that they could be
            attached to each other. Two, three and sometimes four men could thus join as bunkmates.
            The usual number was three, as then the third piece was used in closing one end of the
            complete tent. These pieces of cloth, buttoned together, were thrown across a pole
            resting on two forks set in upright position, and the bottoms fastened by pegs to the
            ground, thus forming a kennel similar in form and size to what printers  would call a small cap A. The boys
            christened them "pup tents," and it was by this name they were generally and popularly
            known. Each man was required to carry his own tent. There was thus no waiting for the
            wagon that never came, and the further assurance that each night he could lie down with
            some protection from either rain or snow or wind. The wagon train was in this way
            greatly reduced, which is an important consideration in the movement of a large
            army.
          In accordance with the proclamation of the President, Thursday, April 30, was observed
            in the army as a day of fasting, humiliation and prayer. At least this was the general
            orders issued, which General Rosecrans couched in language most reverent and
            appropriate. The Eighty-sixth being then without a Chaplain, and the only other officer
            who was a minister being in arrest on a charge of cowardice, no religious service was
            held in the regiment, and the men were compelled to rely on the more fortunate commands
            for spiritual instruction and edification.
          On February 22, 1862, the War Department had issued an order that there shall be
            inscribed on the colors of all regiments the names of the battles in which they had
            borne a meritorious part. In accordance with this order General Rosecrans on February
            19, 1863, directed that the name "Stone's River" should be inscribed on the national
            colors of each regiment that was engaged in the battle in front of Murfreesboro. This
            was the first time that the colors of the Eighty-sixth were entitled to such
            distinction. The regiment having lost its colors, by the death of their bearer on the
            field while in retreat on that fateful 31st of December, a second stand was presented on
            June 15 by the patriotic citizens of Fountain and Warren counties. They were brought
            from Indiana by Joseph Poole, of Attica, and in a neat address by him were formally
            presented. Colonel Dick, in a brief and fitting response, accepted the precious gift.
            These colors bore the appropriate inscription, and were afterwards carried through the
            sanguinary battles of Chickamauga and Missionary Ridge. At the latter engagement they
            were  riddled with musketry, receiving no less than
            eighty-six shots through their folds, an emblematic number. They now rest secure in the
            State House at Indianapolis.
          Desertions from the army had grown to alarming proportions. When caught the deserters
            were usually given a trial, and a light sentence imposed. They were seldom executed, and
            even when a court martial imposed a sentence of death the kind hearted President would
            interpose with a pardon. The most usual sentence was that the deserter should return to
            the army and serve out all of his original time of enlistment which had not been served,
            without pay. In the most flagrant cases it was different. An instance of this kind
            occurred in the Ninth Kentucky. A soldier named Minnick had deserted for the third time.
            With each recurrence he was caught and returned to the regiment. The last time, he was
            tried by a court martial and sentenced to be shot. This occasion the President declined
            to interpose. The execution of Minnick took place on the 16th of June, about a mile
            north of the encampment of the Eighty-sixth. A detail of one man from each company of
            the Eighty-sixth was made to do the shooting. The convicted soldier was placed in an
            ambulance, seated on his coffin, a rough box, and taken to the place of execution,
            accompanied by the entire Twenty-first corps. When the corps arrived at the chosen place
            it was formed into a hollow square, with the fourth side left open, to witness the sad
            affair. It was used on this occasion for an imposing display, and to intimidate and
            prevent other soldiers from committing a like crime. The scene was one full of awe,
            never to be forgotten by those who took part. All who witnessed it seemed to feel the
            solemn presence of death. The coffin was placed in the open part of the square. Minnick
            took a seat on the rough casket. The Adjutant General in a clear but tremulous voice
            read the finding of the court martial to the troops. When the Adjutant finished reading,
            the guards, detailed to do the firing, were ordered forward, and their muskets, which
            had been loaded by other soldiers, were handed to them. Half of them contained blank
            cartridges, so that none of them knew whose  shot killed
            the prisoner. The condemned soldier was blindfolded, and the final order:
            "Ready—Aim—Fire! was given and the, doomed man fell over dead. The troops
            then formed company front and marched in review by the coffin to view the body of their
            late comrade. This was the only execution that the Eighty-sixth was ever called out to
            witness.
          The first grand review in which the Eighty-sixth took part, and the first that it had
            ever seen, was held early in June while the army lay at Murfreesboro. It was only
            however a review of the Twenty-first corps. There had been much preparation for this
            review by all the troops of,that corps, and the officers and men of the Eighty-sixth
            became much enthused over the matter, and all, both officers and men, put forth every
            effort to fit themselves to pass a creditable inspection, and to be so thoroughly
            prepared that no mistake should occur when passing in review. The regiment was
            especially fortunate in having an officer, who by reason of his experience with the Army
            of the Potomac and from careful study, was thoroughly competent to instruct as to the
            ceremonies. Colonel Dick after the inspection and review were over, seemed to be very
            well satisfied with the manner in which the Eighty-sixth had discharged its duty and the
            manner in which it had deported itself.
          As the Spring months wore away there began a clamor from Washington and by politicians
            at home for an advance of Rosecrans' army. General Halleck, who had been placed in
            command of all the Union armies, with his headquarters at Washington, also commenced to
            urge an advance, the objective point to be reached being Chattanooga, which was deemed
            the key to the central and southern portion of the so called Confederacy. President
            Lincoln also dispatched General Rosecrans urging him "if consistent under all the
            circumstances" to push forward. The reason urged for this advance, was to prevent Bragg
            from sending reinforcements to General Johnston's army in Mississippi, against which
            General Grant was then moving. To all of these urgent demands, General Rosecrans replied
            that he would proceed provided they would send him sufficient reinforcements so  that he could move forward, but at the same time have
            sufficient force to protect his lines over which his supplies must of necessity be
            brought. The Confederate cavalry greatly outnumbered that of Rosecrans, and cavalry was
            needed to meet the cavalry of the enemy. He then urged that he be supplied with saddles
            and bridles wherewith to mount some of his infantry. To all of these requests he
            received no favorable response. No one outside of the Army of the Cumberland seemed to
            realize the necessity of the army, that was being urged to push down into the heart of
            the enemy's country, over mountains and deep rivers, being supplied with sufficient
            force and properly equipped to meet the enemy on ground of his own choosing.
          Finally General Rosecrans on June 8, decided to submit the case to his generals, and he
            sent out to them the following letter through his Assistant Adjutant General, Colonel C.
            Goddard, marked "confidential." This letter was sent to Generals Brannan, Crittenden,
            Davis, Granger, Johnson, McCook, Mitchell, Negley, Palmer, Reynolds, Rousseau, Sheridan,
            Stanley, Thomas, Turchin, VanCleve and Wood:
              
                
                   GENERAL:
                  —In view of our present military position, the General commanding desires
                    you to answer, in writing, according to the best of your judgment, the following
                    questions, giving your reasons therefore: 
                      1. From the fullest information in your possession, do you think the
                        enemy in front of us has been so materially weakened by detachments to
                        Johnston or elsewhere,that this army could advance on him at this time, with
                        strong reasonable chances of fighting a great and successful battle?
                      2. Do you think an advance of our army at present likely to prevent
                        additional reinforcements being sent out against General Grant by the enemy
                        in our front?
                      3. Do you think an immediate advance of our army advisable?
                    
                  He desires you to reply to-night.
                
              
            
          To this communication everyone of these generals answered in substance that he deemed
            it unwise under the existing condition of affairs to begin a forward movement, unless
            the army could be reinforced and supplied in accordance with the requests of General
            Rosecrans. All stated that from the best information they could gather, General Bragg
            was not sending away any of his troops and that his army 
            was intact. Major General Thomas, who to-day is believed to be one of the very best of
            all of the Union generals, advised very strongly against it. General James A Garfield,
            then chief of staff, was the only one who advised an advance. General Rosecrans,
            however, on the 23d day of June, decided to move. The camps were soon alive with the
            preparations. Everyone almost, outside of the few who were fully cognizant of the exact
            situation of affairs, was rejoiced at the prospect of breaking the monotony of camp life
            for the excitement of a campaign. The Fourteenth and Twentieth corps, and the First and
            Second divisions of the Twenty-first, were at once put under marching orders, while
            General VanCleve, commanding the Third division of the Twenty-first Corps, this being
            the division to which the Eighty-sixth was assigned, received the following order,
            signed by Brigadier General J. A. Garfield, Chief of Staff, dated June 23, 1863: 
              
                
                  
                    BRIGADIER GENERAL H.
                      P. VANCLEVE:
                  On the departure of the army you will assume command of Fortress Rosecrans and
                    the town of Murfreesboro until relieved by Major General Gordon Granger. You
                    will so dispose the troops as to protect the town. You will see that all public
                    property is removed within the fort; that all wagons belonging to the supply and
                    baggage trains are brought inside the fortifications and properly parked near
                    Stone's River. You will also assume command of the hospitals and convalescent
                    camp, and issue such orders for the policing and government of the camp and of
                    the town as the nature of the case may require.
                
              
            
          
          On the same day the foregoing order was issued, General Gordon Granger, with the
            cavalry and mounted infantry, began the movement, followed on the next day by the entire
            army with the exception of General VanCleve's division. As soon as the army had moved
            out, General VanCleve at once disposed his command about the town, in the fortifications
            and defenses, in the best possible manner to carry out the purport and meaning of his
            orders.
          In this rearrangement of the troops the Eighty-sixth Indiana was moved from the camp
            that it had occupied during all of the time that it had been in Murfreesboro, and was
            posted on the opposite side of river toward Nashville, near  to the Nashville and Chattanooga railroad. It was a relief to move even that short
            distance, and at once the men began to arrange for all the comforts that could be had in
            a camp. Their quiet was, however, very materially disturbed in a short time, for
            although they were not marched out, they soon learned of the following order that was
            received by General VanCleve, dated at Beech Grove, June 27, and signed by the Chief of
            Staff, General J. A. Garfield: 
              
                
                  
                    GENERAL:
                  The general commanding directs you to put your command in readiness to move.
                    Send forward two brigades immediately, with a supply train to follow this
                    column, and hold your remaining brigade in readiness to follow as soon as it is
                    relieved by General Granger. The Chief Commissionary and Quartermaster will send
                    orders for making up the train.
                
              
            
          
          The order showed to the men of the Second brigade that they could not expect to remain
            very long. At once there was a great demand for writing materials, and the mails went
            out from camp well loaded with letters homeward bound detailing as fully as was known
            the movements of the army. This information, however, as is well-known to soldiers, was
            very meager as to exact details, but the imagination and the "grape vine" had large
            drafts made upon them. The fact was that when two of the brigades of the division moved
            out, the remaining one would feel very lonely, and was very anxious to be relieved that
            it might join the advancing columns, although it was known that each day was developing
            the forces of the enemy and that there was "fighting out in front." The final order to
            move out was not received by General VanCleve for some four or five days when he
            received the following order, dated at Tullahoma, July 2, and signed as usual by General
            Garfield: 
              
                
                  
                    BRIGADIER GENERAL H.
                      P. VANCLEVE:
                  —Your dispatch of yesterday is received. The General commanding directs
                    you to move, with your two brigades, upon McMinnville as soon as possible.
                    General Granger has been ordered to relieve you of the command of Murfreesboro.
                    You are authorized to supply yourself with the necessary train from the empty
                    wagons returning to Murfreesboro, if you cannot get your own. Occupy
                    McMinnville, and look out for Morgan. You may be able to capture his camp at
                    Sparta. Put the railroad in repair, so that you may supply your command from
                    here.
                
              
            
          
          
          The departure of VanCleve's division from Murfreesboro was not long drawn out, for on
            July 5, General VanCleve reported that his entire division was on the move for
            McMinnville. McMinnville was a little south of east from Murfreesboro, and was to be for
            the operations then in progress by the Army of the Cumberland the extreme left of the
            army. The self-invited guests of this small town then on their way, were not the first
            that had visited the place. On April 20, General Joseph J. Reynolds, with a portion of
            his division of the Fourteenth corps, had visited the town with four thousand infantry,
            and twenty-six hundred cavalry. This party had destroyed at McMinnville two mills, and
            captured a large amount of supplies that had been gathered there, besides one hundred
            and eighty prisoners, six hundred horses and mules, and retired to Murfreesboro.
          McMinnville was important to the Confederate army as a place for gathering supplies,
            and it was for the purpose of crippling Bragg in this matter, and to protect the extreme
            left of General Rosencrans' army that VanCleve's division was sent there.
          The march from Murfreesboro was one of the most severe of any of the marches ever taken
            by the Eighty-sixth. The sun was intensely hot, the roads were dusty, and water was
            scarce. Finally after reaching McMinnville it proved almost a veritable paradise for the
            brigade. At the time the troops reached there, July 6th and 7th, the fields were overrun
            with most delicious blueberries, very much resembling the blackberry, but large and
            sweet. These berries were in great abundance for several days, and they proved of
            immense benefit to the men. During the stay at McMinnville peaches of very fine quality
            were brought in for sale by the citizens, as well an abundance of fresh vegetables.
            Sickness disappeared from the ranks, and the men came into bet- health than they had had
            for months. The duty was light, although regular drills were resumed. Soon two of the
            brigades were moved away, and the Second brigade, under command of Colonel George F.
            Dick, was left as the sole army occupant of McMinnville.
          
          Thus matters remained with the Eighty-sixth until the receipt of the following order
            from headquarters of the Third division, dated at Pikeville, Tenn., August 25, 1863,
            addressed to Colonel George F. Dick, commanding at McMinnville, and signed by Captain E.
            A. Otis, Assistant Adjutant General: 
              
                
                  
                    COLONEL:
                  Your dispatch of the 23rd is received. The General wishes you to render Captain
                    Stanage all the assistance in your power in getting up supplies. He is much
                    gratified at the disposition of your forces, and the manner in which you have
                    conducted affairs in McMinnville.
                  As soon as you are relieved rejoin the division wherever it may be. I think a
                    force under General Spears is intended as the permanent garrison at McMinnville.
                    Colonel Sullivan, of whom you speak, must be detained until a military court
                    court can be convened to try him. We will make no more details from you, but
                    will send an escort from here with each train. Send back by Colonel Wood all
                    convalescents for First and Third brigades.
                
              
            
          
          By this time the Army of the Cumberland had pushed its lines southward, driving General
            Bragg before it, until it had reached the Tennessee river, and was crossing over and
            taking up the pursuit south of that stream. On August 30, General Rosecrans, then at
            Stevenson, Alabama, ordered General VanCleve with his division to close down on him at
            Stevenson. This was the order that started the entire Third division of the Twenty-first
            corps on its way to join the main army where it merged into the column that moved down
            and into the Chickamauga campaign, which will be the subject of the next chapter. The
            departure from McMinnville September 3, marked the beginning of the Chickamauga
            campaign.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XIV.  THE CHICKAMAUGA CAMPAIGN.
          General Rosecrans' Moves from Murfreesboro—Bragg is Driven from Tullahoma Over
            the Mountains and Out of Tennessee—A Most Skillful and Almost Bloodless
            Movement—The Eighty-sixth Leaves McMinnville—With the Brigade It Makes a
            Forced March-Down the Sequatchie Valley—Crosses the Tennessee—Rejoins the
            Division Near Ringgold—A Series of Confederate Blunders—A Narrow Escape for
            the Union Army—Playing for Position.
          Intervening between the battles of Stone's River and Chickamauga in the Department of
            the Cumberland was what was, and is, known as the Tullahoma campaign. In this campaign
            the Eighty-sixth Indiana took no part, save and except in guarding the left flank of the
            army at McMinnville. To get a proper conception of the Chattanooga campaign which
            includes the battle of Chickamauga, it will be necessary to briefly write of the
            Tullahoma campaign. As shown in the preceding chapter, General Rosecrans, against his
            own judgment and that of the Generals of the Army of the Cumberland, decided in
            obedience to the demands of President Lincoln, and General Halleck, then in command of
            all of the Union armies, to move out of Murfreesboro and attack General Bragg. This was
            in June, 1863. General Bragg with his portion of the Confederate army was then occupying
            a strong portion, north of Duck River, in Tennessee. His infantry front extended from
            Shelbyville to Wartrace. On his extreme right his cavalry rested at McMinnville. His
            left, with cavalry, was at Spring Hill and Columbia.
          Chattanooga was his base, while Tullahoma was his chief depot of supplies. The front of
            the Confederate army was for the most part well protected with abatis. To add to  the strength of his position protected by earthworks and
            the abatis, were the natural fortifications provided by the mountain ranges, and by
            reason of the fact that he held all of the passes through the mountains, which required
            but a very small portion of his effective force, he was able to concentrate the
            remainder of his army at any desired point, without materially affecting his main line.
            The position of General Bragg, as can well be understood, was therefore a remarkably
            strong one, both by nature and by the work of his army. To advance through this country
            successfully was no small task, and it is not to be wondered at, that General Rosecrans
            and his generals hesitated to undertake so arduous and dangerous campaign when it is
            understood that his army was even smaller than that of his opponent. Had he, Rosecrans,
            an army in point of numbers large enough to safely and successfully face General Bragg
            and hold his entire force in place, and then a sufficient force in addition, whereby he
            could flank the army of the enemy, and thus compel Bragg to abandon his works and either
            fight in an open field or retreat, the campaign could then have been made with a
            reasonable degree of assurance. To undertake the campaign as General Rosecrans was
            compelled to make it, was to enter upon an undertaking with all of the chances for
            defeat. To the credit of General Rosecrans and the Army of the Cumberland, it can be
            truthfully said, no other army of the United States ever had to contend against so many
            odds, and no other army ever wrought such wonders of prowess and success as did this
            army.
          With General Bragg's position so well chosen for defense, General Rosecrans had a right
            to believe that he would meet with the most stubborn resistance. The Army of the
            Cumberland moved out from Murfreesboro on June 23, 1863, to enter upon a series of
            campaigns, which, under the circumstances, proved to be the most wonderful known in the
            annals of warfare. Only seven miles from Murfreesboro the cavalry of the enemy were
            encountered, and after driving them through Hoover's Gap, a defile through hills three
            miles in length, the infantry was met in strong force. Such was the  impetuosity of the Union attack that everything was swept before it.
          The plan of General Rosecrans, so auspiciously begun, was to avoid as nearly as
            possible the heavy intrenchments of General Bragg, and turn his flank, thus forcing him
            to give battle on open ground, or to abandon that portion of Tennessee altogether and
            retreat, and once upon the retreat the advantage would be with the Union army. The
            attack on Hoover's Gap was the first move and the success of the Union army made it
            possible for General Rosecrans to concentrate his whole army against the enemy's left.
            It required two days by the rapid movements of General George H. Thomas, aided by the
            mounted infantry and cavalry, and the concentration of the corps of Generals McCook and
            Crittenden, to compel General Bragg to abandon his first line of entrenchments. Then
            through rain and mud General Rosecrans pushed the enemy back toward the Tennessee River.
            On June 29, General Bragg was at Tullahoma, and the Army of the Cumberland was
            concentrated only two miles distant, and expected to attack on the following morning. On
            the morning of June 30, it was learned that Bragg had decided to decline a battle and
            had again fallen back, abandoning Tullahoma. The further pursuit of the enemy was
            delayed by swollen streams, the bridges having been destroyed by General Bragg in his
            retreat. Thus ended one of the shortest campaigns, and one of the greatest up to that
            time in its results, of any of the campaigns of the war. The close of the Tullahoma
            campaign left the Army of the Cumberland in complete possession of Middle Tennessee.
          General Bragg in his retreat crossed the Cumberland mountains and established his
            headquarters at Chattanooga. Bragg nearly, or quite, a year before had moved around the
            Union armies, had crossed Tennessee and Kentucky, and had been again driven back from
            one line to another yet farther in his rear, time after time, until now with the close
            of the Tullahoma campaign was seen the final and decisive failure of the Confederate
            army to hold any of the territory between the Tennessee and Ohio rivers.
          
          Immediately upon the close of the Tullahoma campaign began the preparations for the
            greatest of all the campaigns of the Army of the Cumberland, unaided and alone, the
            Chattanooga or Chickamauga campaign. The greatest because it was entered upon under what
            seemed almost insurmountable difficulties, and with more serious obstacles before it
            than any army of modern days had been called upon to meet and overcome; the greatest
            because at its conclusion in order to maintain the territory sought to be acquired and
            which in fact it did acquire, it was forced against great odds, to fight one of the most
            severe and bloody battles of the war, and then at the close of the battle and of the
            campaign, it held the gateway to the South and center of the Confederacy. The
            preparation for the Chickamauga campaign included the repairing of the wagon roads and
            railroads, the building of bridges over the route by which it had come to Tullahoma to
            bring forward a sufficient amount of supplies for the maintenance of the army, and
            ammunition of all kinds to be used in the campaign. Immediately upon the close of the
            Tullahoma campaign, General Halleck again began to press General Rosecrans to cross the
            Tennessee river and push the war on the south of that river. He, Halleck, far removed
            from the field of operations, never once seemed to realize that the railroads had to be
            repaired, that supplies must be procured, and when notified that in addition to these
            very essential matters, troops should be forwarded to reinforce his army so that the
            flanks might be guarded, and that the line of communication with the base of supplies
            could be protected, he absolutely ignored the requests of General Rosecrans. With
            General Halleck it was an order to "make bricks without straw," or in other words to
            make a campaign which necessarily included the fighting of battles without adequate
            supplies of subsistence, ammunition and men. He was not willing to listen to statements
            of General Rosecrans, or of the officers of the Army of the Cumberland, in regard to the
            situation which they, being on the ground, knew beyond all peradventure, and on August
            5, 1863, issued  peremptory orders for General Rosecrans
            to advance, as follows: 
              
                
                  "The orders for the advance of your army and that its progress be reported
                    daily, are peremptory.
                  
                     H. W. HALLECK."
                
              
            
          It was an absolute impossibility to move until the middle of August, and at that time
            General Rosecrans had done all in his power to repair the roads and put his army in
            condition to move, but in so far as sending him any reinforcements either of cavalry or
            infantry, not one thing had been done by General Halleck. In the attempt to shield
            General Halleck in thus forcing the army to move without reinforcements, it has been
            urged by some that there were no troops that were available and for that reason the
            request of General Rosecrans could not be granted. But was this true? A brief statement
            will answer this pretended reason. General Grant at Vicksburg on the 4th of July, only a
            month previous to General Halleck's peremptory orders, had with 80,000 troops under his
            command captured or destroyed Pemberton's Confederate army. There was then no armed
            force in front of General Grant, nothing required that he should hold that immense army
            at Vicksburg, or in that department, if any of his troops were needed elsewhere. He
            could easily have spared 30,000 men and the Government could easily have made the
            Chattanooga campaign an assured success from its beginning, if immediately after the
            surrender of Vicksburg a sufficient number of those troops had been transferred to
            General Rosecrans. The truth of this statement was verified two months later when
            General Grant came to the Army of the Cumberland besieged in Chattanooga and brought
            with him the Army of the Tennessee under Sherman, and in addition thereto had the
            Eleventh and Twelfth corps sent to him from the Army of the Potomac.
          It is well for the reader to note some difficulties that surrounded General Rosecrans
            and his army in making a further move to the south, and it should not be forgotten that
            each one of these difficulties was a positive danger to the Army of the Cumberland. The
            Army of the Cumberland was now in  a country that had been
            for months the forage grounds of the Confederate army. There were no supplies of any
            kind left for the men under General Rosecrans. The forage for the horses and mules had
            all been consumed by General Bragg's army and it was as yet too early in the season for
            corn or grain of that year's crop to be ripe enough to use. Both men and animals must be
            fed if the army advanced; they could not subsist upon the country. How was it to be
            done? There was but one way, and that was to bring the supplies to the army over the
            route by which it had come. To bring supplies by the river route to Bridgeport and then
            furnish the army was impossible, both because of the length of time required, and at
            that season of the year the stage of the water would not permit the larger boats to pass
            up the river. The only remaining route was a single line of railway. The actual base of
            supplies was at Louisville, although there were supplies at Nashville as an intermediate
            base, but the depot at Nashville depended upon Louisville for its supply. The absolute
            dependence for rations was therefore upon Louisville.
          The distance from Louisville to Nashville is 185 miles, and the distance from Nashville
            to Chattanooga, the objective point, is 161 miles, being a total distance of 346 miles.
            The entire line of railway over which rations for the men, and grain for the animals
            must needs be brought was through a country friendly to the Confederate army. The road
            crossed many streams spanned by bridges of greater or lesser length, or passed through
            mountain passes where dangers lurked both by day and night. As a matter of fact almost
            every mile of the 346 from Louisville to Chattanooga had to be guarded from raids by the
            Confederate cavalry or by bands of guerrillas that masqueraded during the daylight as
            inoffensive citizens. Already General Rosecrans had been compelled to leave a large
            portion of his army along this line of railway to guard against the burning of bridges,
            or the tearing up of the tracks and destruction of trains in the mountain defiles. It
            was for the purpose of relieving this  large force that
            was then guarding the road that General Rosecrans had asked for additional troops.
          He had asked for cavalry also, that he might prevent the Confederate cavalry from
            passing around to his rear and destroying the line of communications. Notwithstanding
            the fact that all of these conditions that then surrounded, harrassed and endangered the
            Army of the Cumberland, were fully presented to General Halleck, they were absolutely
            ignored, and even the earnest request for equipments with which to mount 5,000 infantry
            in order to destroy or prevent the enemy's cavalry from making its raids, were passed by
            in silence, if not contempt. Every day's advance placed the Union army in greater peril
            unless the requests were granted.
          But aside from the question of a failure of supplies as stated, there was yet a greater
            danger that was not at all to be forgotten. The Army of the Potomac was lying quiet and
            Lee's Army of Northern Virginia was in no imminent danger of attack. General Lee and the
            Confederate War Department was in such position that they could transfer whatever number
            of troops might be desired to reinforce General Bragg and leave him free to send his
            entire cavalry force along the line of the railroad to General Rosecrans' rear, and so
            thoroughly and absolutely destroy the railroad that neither supplies nor reinforcements
            could come forward to the Army of the Cumberland.
          If it was "All quiet on the Potomac," the same conditions prevailed in all of the other
            departments, and men and guns and supplies and assistance of any or all kinds could be
            sent to aid General Bragg in the absolute destruction of the army. Subsequent events
            showed that this was exactly the plan that was adopted by the Southern government.
          Under the peremptory orders of August 5, given by General Halleck, there was no course
            left open to General Rosecrans, and he was compelled with his army to brave all the
            dangers that surrounded the way. There was only one thing that was left open to the
            judgment of General Rosecrans, and that was the planning of the campaign. "Chattanooga
            must be taken," was the order from Washington.  The place
            was altogether important to both armies, important to the Confederates because it was
            the key to our advance further South, and if for once it should be securely in our hands
            it would deprive them of the rich products of Tennessee, on which they had relied for
            the maintenance of their army. It was important to the general government in that it had
            been made by nature a remarkably strong position from which to carry on operations
            toward every direction in the South. To reach Chattanooga the Cumberland range must be
            crossed and every foot of the ground must be contested if a direct attack was to be made
            to reach the goal. Stubborn fighting with a continuous loss of men from start to finish
            could most assuredly be expected, if such a campaign was to be inaugurated. With General
            Rosecrans' army about equal in point of numbers with that of General Bragg, it was
            assuming a fearful risk to divide his army and undertake a flank movement. The danger in
            dividing the army for a flank movement was, that once it was divided for such a system
            of strategy, then General Bragg with his army intact might fall upon any one portion of
            the Army of the Cumberland and destroy it before the remaining portions could come to
            its support, and so in turn destroy each part. This plan of campaign notwithstanding the
            perilous conditions that surrounded it was the only possible hope for ultimate success.
            Having determined upon his line of action, on the 16th of August, General Rosecrans
            commenced the movement across the Cumberland mountains. Two divisions of the
            Twenty-first corps marching by different routes crossed the mountains into the
            Sequatchie valley. Two brigades of VanCleve's division of the Twenty-first corps moved
            to Pikeville, the other brigade, to which the Eighty-sixth Indiana was attached, was yet
            at McMinnville.
          Hazen's brigade of Palmer's division and Wagner's brigade of Wood's division of the
            Twenty-first corps were sent over Walden's Ridge into the valley of the Tennessee, and
            Wilder's brigade of mounted infantry, together with Lilly's Eighteenth Indiana battery,
            joined Hazen and Wagner.  While these three brigades were
            pushing their way over the mountains and into the valley, Minty's Union cavalry were
            driving before them the remnant of the rebel cavalry that was yet on the west side of
            the Tennessee river. Having freed the west side of the river from the enemy, Minty and
            his cavalry created the impression on the minds of the Confederates that Rosecrans was
            receiving larger reinforcements, as they, Minty's men, rode up and down the river for a
            distance of thirty miles. These demonstrations also prevented General Bragg from sending
            troops to ascertain the actual situation of affairs. In the meantime the troops of
            Hazen, Wagner and Wilder had reached the valley and could be seen by Bragg's army from
            its position across the river at Chattanooga. Every prominent point and ridge
            overlooking Chattanooga was filled with tents, unoccupied 'tis true, and at night camp
            fires were built for miles. At morning bugles sounded reveille from every hill top, and
            at night tattoo was blown for the imaginary hosts of the Union army overlooking
            Chattanooga. Lilly's battery was multiplied into many batteries as it appeared from out
            the woods, and disappeared soon after with its infantry supports to appear again in
            another place. From the movements of what seemed such large bodies of men General Bragg
            was entirely deceived as to the intentions of General Rosecrans. Believing that the
            attack was to come from above and opposite Chattanooga, General Bragg did just what
            General Rosecrans had wished for, he, Bragg, withdrew the last infantry brigade that was
            watching the river below Chattanooga, and thus gave General Rosecrans the opportunity to
            cross the river with his army. The river now being clear, Rosecrans at once began his
            movement southward, and around Bragg's right to threaten his communications, and thereby
            force him to abandon his strong position in the mountain country and evacuate
            Chattanoga.
          Let us now briefly examine the topography of the country over and through which the
            Fourteenth corps under General Thomas, and the Twentieth corps under General McCook,
            must pass in order to carry out the plans of the campaign.  On the east side of the Tennessee river and parallel to it are Sand and Raccoon
            mountains, with the northern point of Sand mountain abutting on the river opposite
            Walden's Ridge. East of these two mountain ranges, rising boldly for 2,400 feet above
            the sea level, is the rocky and precipitous wall of Lookout Mountain, leaving between
            its perpendicular northern point and the Tennessee river a narrow way cut from the solid
            rock, leaving between that towering wall of rock and the water's edge barely space wide
            enough for the railroad trains to find their way around the point of the mountain and
            into Chattanooga, about two miles distant. Extending southward from the river at this
            point the Lookout range extends for forty-five miles to what is known as Pigeon
            mountains. Between these mountains, Lookout and Pigeon, is McLemore's Cove. From
            McLemore's Cove starts another range of lofty hills and mountains north to east, known
            as Missionary Ridge. Beyond the east of all these ranges is Chattanooga creek or river,
            passing through McLemore's Cove and so flowing in a deep and murky stream to the
            northward, until having united all its branches, it empties itself into the Tennessee
            about five miles above Chattanooga. Between all of these mountain ranges and General
            Rosecrans army flowed the deep waters of the Tennessee river which must be crossed
            before the flank movements could be begun. At various crossings of this river it was but
            reasonable to expect to meet some portions of the Confederate army. On August 29,
            General Rosecrans had pushed an advance column across the river at a point called
            Caperton's, had captured the rebel pickets, put down his pontoons, and began the work of
            sending over the army. Crittenden was now concentrating all of his Twenty-first corps,
            at the Tennessee river, and by September 4, had all of his pontoons in the river at
            Shell Mound and his troops were passing over, the last to cross being VanCleve's which,
            with the exception of Dick's brigade, had all crossed by the 7th.
          The Union army was then in the following positions: The Twenty-first corps, Crittenden,
            on the left, advancing by way of Whitesides toward Chattanooga to cross the mountain  ranges near the river. The Fourteenth corps, Thomas, had
            pushed forward in the center moving southward, and on the morning of September 3 was
            with his advance over Lookout mountain, twenty-six miles south of Chattanooga. The
            Twentieth corps, McCook, was on the right, and had moved yet farther south in the
            vicinity of Alpine and McLemore's Cove, forty-six miles south of Chattanooga. The
            cavalry was on the extreme right. Never was an army compelled to place itself in so
            perilous a position as was that into which the Army of the Cumberland was forced from
            the 9th of September until the morning of the 19th of that month, and as subsequent
            events showed, had the order of General Bragg to his corps commanders been obeyed, the
            probabilities are that our Union army would have been utterly destroyed, corps after
            corps, while in this scattered position.
          Having seen the disposition of the troops of General Rosecrans we will now look to the
            movements of General Bragg and his army. Bragg had found himself being rapidly hemmed in
            at Chattanooga, with a prospect of having all of his communications cut off. Wilder's
            mounted brigade with Spencer repeating rifles, and Lilly's Eighteenth Indiana battery,
            were on the west bank of the Tennessee river opposite Chattanooga, and were then
            throwing shells into the town. There was nothing left for General Bragg to do but to
            move out, and fall back southward toward Rome and Lafayette, Georgia, until he could
            meet the reinforcements he was daily expecting from the Confederate army of Northern
            Virginia, Buckner's corps from East Tennessee which was then within supporting distance
            and Johnston's army then on its way to join him and then to fall upon General Rosecrans'
            scattered army before it could be united and destroy it piece meal. Therefore on the
            night of September 8, he evacuated Chattanooga. On the afternoon of September 9,
            Wilder's brigade crossed the river and took possession of Chattanooga. Could it have
            been possible at this time for General Rosecrans to have united his army at Chattanooga
            there then would have been closed the most skillfully planned and most daringly executed
            campaign of the war. In only about three weeks time 
            General Rosecrans had repeated the Tullahoma campaign though a campaign by far vaster in
            its scope and results. It was a campaign beset by difficulties and dangers that at the
            outset seemed to be all but insurmountable, and yet it had been accomplished, with
            Chattanooga in his possession, and up to that point of time could have been termed
            almost a bloodless campaign, for it had been accomplished with the loss of only about a
            hundred men.
          Upon retiring from Chattanooga General Bragg, as was afterward learned, sent two of his
            corps, Polk's and Hill's, to LaFayette by way of Lee & Gordon's Mills. Two other
            corps, Walker's and Buckner's, were sent by way of Gainesville, near to LaFayette, while
            his other forces moved by way of Ringgold. Cleburne's division, one of the strongest and
            best fighting divisions of his army, was thrown forward to try to occupy the gaps in
            Pigeon mountain. General Bragg established his headquarters at Lee & Gordon's Mills,
            with Hindman's division.
          In order to preserve the record of the Eighty-sixth Indiana, it will be necessary to
            return to the regiment with its brigade at McMinnville. The monotony of camp life for an
            army in the field is broken always to a certain extent by the rumors that are set afloat
            from some indefinable source, in regard to what is or is not to be done by the army.
            These rumors often have some foundation in fact and serve to give interest and zest to
            soldier life. Situated as was the regiment and brigade at McMinnville, on the extreme
            left of the army, it was not possible for anyone, not even the brigade commander, to
            receive any very reliable information, beyond the fact that important operations of the
            entire army were contemplated, and such action could be none other than a forward
            movement which meant a battle in the very near future. Of one thing all had more or less
            reliable information, and that was that the Second brigade, Third division, Twenty-first
            corps, would soon be relieved, and would then rejoin its division and corps, but when it
            would be relieved, or where it would rejoin its division and corps no one knew. This
            uncertainty and unrest continued through the entire  month
            of August, and the last day of the month had closed and no orders had been received for
            the movement.
          On September 3, the headquarters of the Third division, Twenty-first corps, were at
            Jasper, Tennessee, and on that day General VanCleve, by his Adjutant General, Captain E.
            A. Otis, issued the following special orders, No. 202: By
                direction of the General commanding the Twenty-first Army Corps, this command will
                move to and across the Tennessee river at Shell Mound as soon as the way is open, of
                which notice will hereafter be given. The troops will be supplied with three days'
                rations in haversacks; commencing with tomorrow morning. * * *
                  *
            
          
          Under this order Colonel Dick's brigade moved out from McMinnville to join the division
            and cross the Tennessee river and bear its part in the Chattanooga-Chickamauga campaign
            then fairly opened. That afternoon, September 3, at 2 o'clock, the brigade left its
            comfortable and home-like encampment at McMinnville, marched twelve miles, and
            bivouacked. The next morning, the 4th, it started early, during the forenoon ascended
            the Cumberland mountain, and at nightfall encamped on its summit. September 5 the
            brigade moved out at 6 o'clock, descended the mountain during the day, and at night
            bivouacked near Dunlap in the Sequatchie valley. September 6 the brigade started at 4
            o'clock and marched down the valley all day, and encamped near a big spring. On reaching
            Jasper, September 7, Colonel Dick received an order from General VanCleve to change his
            line of march, and instead of going to and crossing the river at Shell Mound, as first
            ordered, that he should march to and cross the river at Bridgeport. In obedience to this
            order the route was changed and the brigade passed on through Jasper, crossing Battle
            Creek and reached Bridgeport and crossed the Tennessee river on the evening of September
            7, going into bivouac on the east side of the river about 9 o'clock, at night, having
            marched during the day twenty-two miles. At 5 o'clock the next morning the brigade again
            moved out, and marched that day to Whitesides, a distance of fourteen miles.
          Of the advance from Whitesides by the Second brigade, 
            Third division, Twenty-first corps, Colonel George F. Dick, in his report of the battle
            of Chickamauga, says: "On September 9, a march of sixteen miles
                on the Trenton road brought me within ten miles of Chattanooga. On the 10th, I
                crossed the Lookout Mountain after a considerable delay, occasioned by the
                difficulty of getting a large supply train which was moving in front of my column,
                over the road. At the Widow Gillespie's, I halted until by brigade train should come
                up for the purpose of complying with the order for the reduction of baggage. This
                caused a delay until 4 p. m., when I again moved forward, reaching Rossville at
                sunset. Here a courier came in, reporting that about sixty rebel cavalry had
                attacked General Wood's supply train about two miles ahead. I immediately ordered
                the Thirteenth Ohio, Fifty-ninth Ohio, and Forty-fourth Indiana regiments, with a
                section of the Third Wisconsin battery, on the double quick, to drive back the
                raiders, leaving the Eighty-sixth Indiana as a guard to my own train. After double
                quicking a little more than two miles, the Fifty-ninth Ohio, being in front, came up
                to the train, when the enemy withdrew. The road being now clear, I moved my column
                forward, and at 11 p. m. I came up to General Wood's encampment on Chickamauga
                creek, where I bivouacked for the night.
              At 5 o'clock next morning I was ordered forward to rejoin the division, which order
                1 complied with, arriving at division headquarters, five miles from Ringgold,
                Georgia, at about 7 a. m., when I reported to Brigadier-General VanCleve. At 9 a. m.
                I moved with the division in the direction of Ringgold. Marching with the division,
                I went with it into camp on Dogwood creek, two and a half miles south of Ringgold on
                the Dalton road."
          The march from the time this brigade left McMinnville until it rejoined the division
            near Ringgold, as shown by the above itinerary and Colonel Dick's report, was a forced
            march all the way for eight days. The men of the regiment were in excellent spirits;
            they had had a rest of two months, during which time they had had an opportunity to
            procure fruit and fresh vegetables, and the health of the men had been restored, and
            never in all its history had the regiment been in better condition physically. The road
            over which they came was dry and dusty, much of the route was through one of the most
            delightful portions of Tennessee, and the sun was hot during the day, but it was a
            "forward movement," and couriers that were met enroute gave most encouraging reports of
            the advance of the main army. Thus was the weariness of the  march, the heat and the dust, offset by the cheering news, and no complaints of
            hardships were heard. When the brigade crossed the river at Bridgeport on September 7,
            it was believed by all that an engagement was imminent and the sound of battle was
            expected. On the 9th, however, news of the evacuation of Chattanooga was received, and
            it was then believed by most of the command that a halt would be made at Chattanooga, as
            it was generally understood that that city was the objective point, and that now being
            in the hands of General Rosecrans, therefore the campaign would be ended. This delusion
            was soon dispelled when the orders were received to press on and join the remainder of
            the command then in pursuit of Bragg's army. The march in pursuit of Bragg was entered
            upon with hearty good will, and as the Eighty-sixth moved over the railroad around the
            point of old Lookout and caught sight of the stars and stripes floating over the
            captured city of Chattanooga a shout went up from the men that was taken up and echoed
            from Lookout to Missionary Ridge. Catching just a glimpse of the city as the head of the
            column crossed the creek at the foot of the mountain, the brigade hastened on up Lookout
            Valley to the southward toward Rossville, the men little dreaming of the terrible ordeal
            through which they were destined to pass within the following ten days.
          Having now united the Eighty-sixth Indiana and the brigade to which it was attached
            with the division, it is important as a matter of history to be preserved by the
            regiment and its friends, that the immediate organization of the Twenty-first army corps
            should here be given. This corps, because of its magnificent record at Chickamauga, has
            won a place in the hearts of all those who were connected with the Army of the
            Cumberland. Whether fighting as a complete corps, or taken by detachments and sent to
            the support of other portions of the army, the officers and men who composed it showed
            that gallantry and those soldierly qualities that make the American citizen soldier
            superior to any other soldier of the world. The following roster of the Twenty-first
            army corps at Chickamauga will doubtless bring to  mind
            many incidents and scenes which have been covered up in the minds of the comrades by the
            dust of years that have passed, or been driven from memory, or pushed into the
            background by the press of business and the struggle to "get on in the world," since the
            soldier of 1861-1865 has become again the citizen: 
              TWENTY-FIRST ARMY CORPS AT CHICKAMAUGA.
              Major General Thomas L. Crittenden, Commanding.
              FIRST DIVISION. 
                Brigadier General Thomas J. Wood, Commanding.
              First Brigade.
                 Colonel George P. Buell, Commanding.  One Hundreth Illinois. Thirteenth
                Michigan. Fifty-eighth Indiana. Twenty-sixth Ohio.  Eighth Indiana
                Battery.
              Second Brigade.
                 Brigadier General George D. Wagner, Commanding. Stationed at Chattanooga
                and not engaged at Chickamauga.
              Third Brigade.
                 Colonel Charles G. Harker, Commanding.  Third Kentucky. Sixty-fifth Ohio.
                Sixty-fourth Ohio. One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Ohio.  Sixth Ohio
                Battery.
              SECOND DIVISION.  Major
                General John M. Palmer, Commanding.
              First Brigade.
                 Brigadier General Charles Cruft, Commanding.  Thirty-first Indiana.
                Second Kentucky. First Kentucky. Ninetieth Ohio.  First Ohio Light, Battery
                B.
              Second Brigade.
                 Brigadier General William B. Hazen, Commanding.  Ninth Indiana.
                Forty-first Ohio. Sixth Kentucky. One Hundred and Twenty-fourth  Ohio. First
                Ohio Light, Battery F.
              Third Brigade.
                 Colonel William Grose, Commanding.  Eighty-fourth Illinois. Twenty-third
                Kentucky. Thirty-sixth Indiana. Twenty-fourth Ohio.  Fourth United States
                Artillery, Battery H.  Fourth United States Artillery, Battery M.
              
              
              THIRD DIVISION.
                Brigadier General Horatio P. VanCleve, Commanding.
              First Brigade. Brigadier General Samuel
                Beatty, Commanding. Seventy-ninth Indiana. Seventeenth Kentucky. Ninth
                Kentucky. Nineteenth Ohio.  Seventh Indiana Battery.
               Second Brigade.
                 Colonel George F. Dick, Commanding.  Forty-fourth Indiana. Thirteenth
                Ohio. Eighty-sixth Indiana. Fifty-ninth Ohio.  Twenty-sixth Pennsylvania
                Battery.
              Third Brigade.
                 Colonel Sidney M. Barnes, Commanding.  Thirth-fifth Indiana. Twenty-first
                Kentucky. Eighth Kentucky. Fifty-first Ohio. Ninty-ninth Ohio. Third Wisconsin
                Battery.
            
          
          The entire movements of General Bragg after leaving Chattanooga and his designs were
            shrouded in mystery in so far as General Rosecrans was able to discover. Of course it
            was all made manifest later on, and the rebel army was found to have been posted as
            stated in the foregoing portion of this chapter. After the division of General VanCleve
            was united then was begun the same tactics that had been pursued by the Twenty-first
            army corps in the valley opposite Chattanooga before Bragg evacuated the place. It was
            to be a system of strategy for the purpose of deceiving and misleading General Bragg, if
            possible, as to the situation and condition of the Army of the Cumberland. It was now a
            matter of vital importance to General Rosecrans that no general engagement should be
            brought on until his army could be again united. Although the pursuit of the Confederate
            army was entered upon by the troops of the Twenty-first corps with a most commendable
            degree of enthusiasm, no one, not even the commanding general, realized the perilous
            situation in which it was being placed. The true condition of affairs was, however, soon
            made manifest to General Rosecrans and at least to all of the general officers, whether
            it was to the rank and file or not.
          On September 12, the Twenty-first corps marched from 
            Ringgold and bivouacked near to and about Lee & Gordon's Mills. On the night of
            September 9, General Bragg had ordered General Hindman, then at Lee & Gordon's
            Mills, to march to Davis' cross roads, and there to make a junction with General
            Cleburne's forces, and both were to attack Negley's division of General Thomas' corps
            then advancing from Stevens' Gap toward LaFayette, where, it was afterward learned,
            General Bragg had concentrated his army, and where he was then receiving large
            reinforcements from Virginia and Mississippi. These orders were not obeyed, but had they
            been executed promptly, Negley's division, isolated as it was, would have been, in all
            probability, utterly destroyed. General Hill, who should have had the immediate command
            of the two divisions that were to have attacked General Negley, reported to General
            Bragg that the mountain gaps through which he would have to pass were so obstructed with
            felled timber that he could not get through in less than twenty-four hours. By the time
            the twenty-four hours had passed, General Baird, commanding the First division of
            Thomas' corps, had joined General Negley, and thus Negley was placed on nearer an equal
            footing with the column that was to have made the attack. Again on September 10, General
            Bragg issued the order to make the attack, sending forward two additional divisions of
            the Confederate army as reinforcements. Again there was the delay of a day in the
            execution of General Bragg's orders, and in that time the other two divisions of General
            Thomas' corps had joined Negley and Baird, and with them General Thomas in person, and
            the center of our army was secure for the time being. These events now bring the reader
            to the day on which Crittenden's corps, falling back from Ringgold, had concentrated at
            Lee & Gordon's Mills. Thomas, with the Fourteenth corps, and McCook, with the
            Twentieth corps, were from twenty to forty miles away, with mountain ranges and almost
            impassable roads separating them from Crittenden's corps. The Twenty-first corps,
            Crittenden's, was then entirely isolated from all support and absolutely powerless to
            withstand a combined attack from General Bragg's army, if 
            that officer should determine to concentrate his forces and make the attack. And this
            was exactly the movement that was then contemplated by General Bragg.
          On September 12, General Bragg with his headquarters at LaFayette, Georgia, at 6 p. m.,
            issued the following order to Lieutenant General Polk: 
              
                
                  
                    GENERAL:
                  —I enclose you a dispatch from General Pegram. This presents you a fine
                    opportunity of striking Crittenden in detail, and I hope you will avail yourself
                    of it at daylight to-morrow. This division crushed and the others are yours. We
                    can then turn again on the force in the Cove. Wheeler's cavalry will move on
                    Wilder so as to cover your right. I shall be delighted to hear of your
                    success.
                
              
            
          
          On that evening, however, after receiving the orders General Polk notified General
            Bragg that additional troops should be sent to him. He said: "I
                am clearly of the opinion that you should send me additional forces, so as to make
                failure impossible, and great success here would be of incalculable benefit to our
                cause."
          The entire day passed and General Polk awaited for reinforcements, and at the close of
            the day the entire corps of Crittenden had united. At night, on September 12, General
            Bragg again writes General Polk: "Your position seems to be a
                strong one for defense, but I hope will not be held unless the enemy attacks early.
                We must force him to fight at the earliest moment, and before his combination can be
                carried out. * * * * *However, to avoid all danger, I shall
                put Buckner in motion in the morning and run the risk here. You must not delay
                attack for his arrival, or another golden opportunity may be lost by the withdrawal
                of our game. * * * * Action, prompt and decided, is all that
                can save us."
          On the very day that this attack was ordered to be made by General Bragg on Crittenden,
            September 13, General Crittenden, after placing his corps in position, ordered General
            VanCleve, with General Beatty's brigade, supported by Colonel Dick's brigade, to make a
            reconnoissance beyond Lee & Gordon's Mills on the Lafayette road. At the same time
            Wilder's brigade of mounted infantry, with General Cruft's brigade as support, was
            ordered to reconnoitre to the left through Pea Vine valley. The same day the Fourth
            United States cavalry reported to General Crittenden for duty, and  he ordered them to reconnoitre the road toward McLemore's Cove.
          General VanCleve moved out in obedience to his orders, crossing Chickamauga creek and
            advancing for three miles toward LaFayette. This reconnoissance developed the fact the
            enemy was in front in some considerable force, but from General VanCleve's report it is
            evident that he went back to his position at Lee & Gordon's Mills in blissful
            ignorance of the exact situation in his front that day. In his report to General
            Crittenden after the battle of Chickamauga, in detailing his movements for each day from
            the 4th to the 21st of September, he says: "On the 13th, by your
                order,I made a reconnoisance with my division three miles toward LaFayette. We met
                the rebel cavalry immediately after passing our picket line, and with sharp
                skirmishing drove them back. Two privates of the Nineteenth Ohio were mortally
                wounded by a solid shot. Captain Drury, Chief of Artillery, and Lieutenant Clark,
                Company G, Seventy-ninth Indiana Volunteers, were seriously wounded. The loss of the
                enemy is unknown."
          At the end of the three miles advance General VanCleve halted and rested his command,
            giving the men an opportunity to eat a lunch before he started on the return. Not one of
            the officers or men either of Dick's brigade, or of Beatty's brigade, as they ate their
            hardtack that Sunday noon of September 13, 1863, imagined for one instant that only one
            mile farther on the greater part of Bragg's army were waiting for what they supposed
            Crittenden's advance to fall into their hands. Had General Polk obeyed the orders of his
            chief, which were to fall upon Crittenden that morning, he would have caught General
            VanCleve all unprepared for the discovery of so much force, soon after he, VanCleve, had
            crossed the Chickamauga, and the two brigades would have been litterly overrun and
            annihilated. The same condition of affairs confronted Wilder's brigade that day. Had
            Wilder but pushed forward on his reconnoissance one mile further than where he halted
            and turned back, he would have struck the solid right wing of Bragg's army. The greater
            the examination of the history of tie battle of Chickamauga one makes, the more it is
            apparent that Chickamauga  was full of blunders, and
            failures on the part of the Confederate army, and of escapes for the
            Union army. The failure of Hindman and Cleburne to strike Negley, was a blunder on their
            part, and an escape for Thomas' corps. The failure of Polk with his overwhelming force
            to strike Crittenden on the morning of September 13 with VanCleve's division on the east
            bank of the Chickamauga, and Wilder's brigade with their breech loading Spencer rifles
            out of reach on the left, with the cavalry towards McLemore's Cove, and the remainder of
            the corps all unconscious of its danger, was the greatest blunder and mistake of the
            Confederates, and the crowning escape not only of Crittenden's corps, but in its final
            results, as we shall see a little further on, the almost miraculous escape of the Army
            of the Cumberland as well. General Polk's timidity and the lack of enforcing orders by
            General Bragg on Sunday, September 13, was the pivot on which absolute defeat and ruin
            to General Rosecrans turned to an ultimate victory in the holding of Chattanooga.
          Bragg after the failure of Polk on Sunday, resolved upon another line of action
            differing only in the manner of its execution, from the one he had mapped out in his
            orders to General Polk when he ordered him to fall upon Crittenden's
            corps. His new plan was fully developed in his orders which were issued to his army a
            few days later. In this new plan he proposed to move down on the east side of the
            Chickamauga and cross the stream between Chattanooga and Lee & Gordon's Mills,
            destroy General Crittenden's corps, then to follow up his victory and attack General
            Thomas and destroy or scatter his command in the mountains, thus leaving General McCook
            with his corps, utterly powerless, away from supplies, away from all hope of assistance
            and at the mercy of the Confederate army, with Chattanooga again in his grasp whenever
            at his leisure he might see fit to take it, and with the way once more open for a
            triumphant march northward. The plan was an excellent one, and it does seem now in the
            light of all the facts, as if there was no possible hindrance to its successful
            accomplishment. By interposing his army between Chattanooga and Crittenden's left,  Bragg would be in no danger of being caught between the
            Twenty-first corps and the Fourteenth and Twentieth corps, which might come up before
            the Twenty-first was disposed of. But here again came another blunder of General Bragg.
            He was too slow, and allowed four days to pass before he issued his final orders for the
            advance of his army. General Rosecrans, in the meantime, had gained information that
            Bragg was in receipt of a large reinforcement, and that General Longstreet, with his
            famous corps of the Army of Northern Virginia was enroute also to further strengthen
            General Bragg. General Rosecrans also had received such information as led him to
            believe that General Bragg was concentrating towards the Union left. At once he,
            Rosecrans, undertook to concentrate the Army of the Cumberland on Crittenden's corps.
            General Rosecrans in his report covering the date of September 12, says: "Thus it was ascertained that the enemy was concentrating all his
                forces, both infantry and cavalry, behind Pigeon Mountain, in the vicinity of
                LaFayette, while the corps of this army were at Gordon's Mills, Bailey's
                cross-roads, at the foot of Stevens' Gap, and at Alpine, a distance of forty miles
                from flank to flank, by the nearest practical roads, and fifty-seven miles by the
                route subsequently taken by the Twentieth army corps. It had already been
                ascertained that the main body of Johnston's army had joined Bragg, and accumulation
                of evidence showed that the troops from Virginia had reached Atlanta on the first of
                the month, and that reinforcements were expected to arrive soon from that quarter.
                It was now a matter of life and death to effect the concentration of the
              army."
          The plan adopted by General Rosecrans for the concentration of his army was for General
            McCook with his corps to join General Thomas at McLemore's Cove, then to move General
            Thomas to the left permitting General McCook to take the place of General Thomas, and
            then by forced marches to move both of their corps to the rear of and to the left of
            General Crittenden's corps. Thus in the formation as was then contemplated and as was
            afterward carried out leaving General Crittenden's corps so that it would become the
            right wing of the army instead of the left. While these preparations for consolidating
            the army were in progress, the troops of Crittenden's corps were kept busy in making  reconnoissances, and by moving about were making a show of
            strength. On the night of September 12, at midnight, General McCook received his order
            to join General Thomas at McLemore's Cove, and he at once commenced a movement which
            required him five days to execute, reaching his position with General Thomas on the
            17th. Five long, anxious and dangerous days for the small body of the army along
            Chickamauga creek. Five days in which at any time Bragg might have destroyed Crittenden
            and have thrown his whole force against Thomas and destroyed him before McCook could get
            up. As soon as McCook had joined Thomas the movement to the left began and on the night
            of the 17th these two corps had pushed well on toward Crittenden.
          On the night of the 17th, General Bragg issued his orders for the movement of his corps
            and for the opening of the battle, and it was intended that the movements named in the
            order should all be made so that Bragg should open the battle by 6 o'clock on the
            morning of the 18th. The orders as issued by General Bragg, dated at Leet's Tan Yard,
            September 18, 1863, read as follows: 
              1. Johnson's column, (Hood's), on crossing at or near Reed's bridge, will turn
                to the left by the most practicable route, and sweep up the Chickamauga toward Lee
                & Gordon's Mills.
              2. Walker, crossing at Alexander bridge, will unite in this move—and push
                vigorously on the enemy's flank and rear in the same direction.
              3. Buckner, crossing at Thedford's ford, will join in the movement to the left,
                and press the enemy up the stream from Polk's front at Lee & Gordon's
                Mills.
              4. Polk will press his forces to the front of Lee & Gordon's Mills, and if
                met by too much resistance to cross, will bear to the right and cross at Dalton's
                ford, or at Thedford's, as may be necessary, and join in the attack wherever the
                enemy may be.
              5. Hill will cover our left flank from an advance of the enemy from the Cove,
                and by pressing the cavalry in his front, ascertain if the enemy is reinforcing at
                Lee & Gordon's Mills, in which event he will attack them in flank.
              6. Wheeler's cavalry will hold the gaps in Pigeon Mountain and cover our rear
                and left, and bring up stragglers.
              7. All teams, etc., not with troops, shall go toward Ringgold and  Dalton, beyond Taylor's Ridge. All cooking shall be
                done at the trains. Rations when cooked will be forwarded to the troops.
              8. The above movements will be executed with the utmost promptness, vigor and
                persistence.
            
          Between General Bragg and General Crittenden run the deep and muddy waters of the
            Chickamauga, with banks that were steep, and the crossings, difficult for artillery and
            ammunition trains, were narrow and poor. To make these crossings the more difficult,
            each one was guarded by a strong detachment from Wilder's mounted infantry and Minty's
            cavalry, each detachment being supported or assisted with artillery. This was a force
            not counted upon by General Hood in his calculation. Beside this his command did not get
            under way early in the morning, and it was after noon of that day before the advance of
            the different corps approached their points of crossing, and when these were reached
            they found a sufficient force to dispute their passage and the crossing was not effected
            until late in the evening, too late to carry out the plans as laid down in General
            Bragg's order. Only a part of Bragg's army got across that evening and the Union troops
            were constantly on the guard.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XV.  THE BATTLE OF CHICKAMAUGA.
          The Opening Ball—The Eighty-sixth in at the Beginning—Dick's Brigade in
            Support of Wilder—Important Points on the Field Described—Position of
            Rosecrans' Troops—Waiting in Suspense—The Orders Arrive—The Regiment
            goes in—A Vivid Portrayal of the First Day's Contest—The Lines Reformed for
            the Second Day—The Bloody Contest Rages With Unabated Fury—The Various
            Movements of the Regiment, Brigade and Division—The Charges at the Kelly and Poe
            Fields—The Break in the Lines—Longstreet in the Charge—On Snodgrass
            Hill and Harker Hill—Steadman's Troops Come Up—Confederates Gain Possession
            of the LaFayette Road on the Left—Final Repulse of Longstreet at Snodgrass
            Hill—Withdrawal of Union Troops—Strength of the Armies and Losses at
            Chickamauga—Estimates of the Battle by Confederate Officers—Indiana at
            Chickamauga.
          On September 18, Dick's brigade lay during the forenoon at Crawfish Springs, two miles
            west and south, by the wagon road, from Lee & Gordon's Mills. The horses stood
            hitched to the artillery for any emergency. The troops had just finished their noon meal
            and were sitting about waiting for the next move, when from the north came the report of
            artillery announcing the opening of the battle at Alexander's bridge and Reed's bridge.
            The troops were now fully aroused as they began to thoroughly realize that the battle
            was opening. For several days it had been expected, but no one realized the severity
            with which the contest was to rage for the next two days after these opening shots. The
            brigade did not have long for speculation or conjecture upon the opening of the
            engagement, before there came an order to Colonel Dick to push forward his brigade as
            rapidly as possible to the support of General Thomas J. Wood, who was then threatened by
            General Polk's advance at Lee & Gordon's Mills. There was no delay in getting off
            after the order was received, and the Eighty-sixth Indiana with the other regiments of
            the brigade, reached the position on the  left of Wood in
            time to see the first of the wounded cavalry and mounted infantry coming in from Wilder
            and Minty's command. Until the sun went down on the afternoon of the 18th of September,
            the fight was between the cavalry and mounted infantry of Rosecrans, and the head of the
            columns of Bragg. The day, however, was practically lost to Bragg, in so far as the
            speedy and successful execution of his plans were concerned.
          The soldiers who took part in the battle of Chickamauga and who have not visited
            Chickamauga since the battle, may have forgotten to a certain extent the roads and
            locations that were prominent in that battle, and the reader of this sketch who has not
            been on the battle-field should know of the different positions as they are named as
            important points in the battle.
          The Chattanooga & LaFayette road, spoken of during the battle as the LaFayette
            road, is a wagon road leading a little east of south from Chattanooga to Rossville, a
            distance of four miles, where it passes through Missionary Ridge by what is known as
            Rossville Gap. Near Rossville and a very little to the north, is the boundary line
            between Tennessee and Georgia. The LaFayette road, after passing through Rossville Gap
            runs southeast for near two miles, and then runs due south through or near the center of
            the battle-field to Lee & Gordon's Mills, eight miles and a half from Rossville and
            twelve and a half miles from Chattanooga, and thirteen miles yet further south of Lee
            & Gordon's Mills is LaFayette. Along the line of this LaFayette road are for the
            most part the important positions where the battle raged on September 19th and 20th. As
            the battle opened our right lay at Lee & Gordon's Mills, and to the east side of the
            LaFayette road, faced east, and as all of the movements of the battle were to our left,
            or northward, the points will be named beginning at Lee & Gordon's Mills and going
            to our left, north toward Chattanooga on this road. First is Viniard's, one mile and a
            half north of the mill, Brotherton's, a mile and a small fraction north of Viniard's;
            Poe's, a quarter of a mile north of Brotherton's; Kelly's, three-fourths of a mile  north of Poe's; McDaniel's, four-fifths of a mile north of
            Kelly's; Cloud's, a half mile north of McDaniel's. With these points borne in mind it
            will not be difficult to locate in the mind the position to the east or west of the
            LaFayette road. The Widow Glenn's is almost directly west of Viniard's, abouth
            three-quarters of a mile. Dyer's is west of the Brotherton house about a half mile;
            Snodgrass Hill is northwest of the Kelly field about a mile. North of Snodgrass Hill a
            half mile is Harker's Hill, a ridge running in a northeasterly direction toward the
            LaFayette road. On the east side of the LaFayette road is Jay's mill, about two and an
            eighth miles southeast from McDaniel's; Reed's bridge, two and half miles southeast from
            McDaniel's; Alexander's bridge, a little south of east of Viniard's two and
            three-quarter miles; the Brock field east of Brotherton's a mile. Intermediate between
            the houses named here are the fields and woods belonging to the parties indicated by the
            names given.
          As stated, the forces of Wilder held at bay the advance of General Walker at
            Alexander's bridge until about dark when Wilder fell back toward the LaFayette road, and
            halted on the east line of the Viniard farm. Here he posted his troops in the best
            manner possible to prevent the rebel force from reaching the LaFayette road and cutting
            off the line between Crittenden and Chattanooga. The enemy, however, advanced in such
            force as to endanger Wilder's position, when he called upon General Crittenden for
            assistance. Colonel Dick's brigade being the nearest to Wilder it was ordered forward
            and directed to form on Wilder's right. This was done by placing the Forty-fourth
            Indiana and the Fifty-ninth Ohio regiments on the line, while the Eighty-sixth Indiana
            and the Thirteenth Ohio were held in reserve. During the night a very determined effort,
            as it seemed, was begun to force back our lines and gain the LaFayette road, but the
            resistance was so hot, and the rebels not being able to ascertain the length or strength
            of our lines because of the darkness, after some severe firing, relinquished the
            movement and fell back out of range and thus rested for the night.
          
          Returning now to the movements of the Fourteenth and Twentieth corps, we find Thomas
            and McCook had kept quiet during the day of the 18th but as soon as night had come these
            two corps at once started from Pond Spring to push through with all possible dispatched
            to reach Crittenden's left and interpose their lines between the right of Bragg's army
            and the route to Chattanooga. Upon reaching Crawfish Springs, Negley's division was
            turned to the southeast to Glass' mill to watch the flank and prevent any surprise from
            that direction, and Thomas with the other three of his divisions pressed on through the
            darkness northward past the Widow Glenn's, leaving the Lafayette road to his right and
            finally turning east, striking that road at the Kelly farm. From that point General
            Brannan's division moved eastward to Jay's mill and at daylight was in line ready for
            the battle that was soon to open. Before the dawn had fully come General Thomas had his
            forces all in position on the left of Crittenden, while McCook was at Crawfish Springs
            ready to fall into line wherever he should be most needed. The 18th of September had
            passed and with it all prospect for General Bragg to destroy Crittenden's corps. With it
            had gone the victory that he had seen within his grasp when he issued his orders on the
            17th. By his delays and tardiness in moving he had lost all chance to pass around the
            left of the Union army and interpose between it and Chattanooga. The dawn of the 19th
            was to be a surprise for General Bragg even greater than he had anticipated giving to
            General Crittenden. Prior to this time the Army of the Cumberland had shown its prowess
            in fighting as an advancing and aggressive army. It was now to fight on the defensive,
            and it was ready to show, and did show, that its courage and staying qualities were even
            greater than any of its former daring and deeds of valor.
          Let us examine the position of the troops of General Rosecrans on the morning of
            September 19th before the opening of the battle. Crittenden's corps still occupied the
            left of the line extending from Lee & Gordon's Mills northward. Wilder's brigade of
            mounted infantry and Colonel  Dick's brigade had just
            before daylight been withdrawn from the east side of the Viniard farm, east of the
            LaFayette road, and Wilder's brigade was now formed in line of battle on the ridge in
            the edge of the woods on the west side of the Viniard farm, west of the LaFayette road.
            This brigade at that time formed the extreme right of the army. Thomas, however, was
            moving into position on the north, and he soon had his three divisions across the
            LaFayette road extending in a northeasterly line to Jay's mill, facing southward. At
            this time there was a gap in our lines between the left of Crittenden and the right of
            Wilder. McCook's corps, the Twentieth, was at Crawfish Springs, awaiting orders, yet
            within easy reach of any position that might need his troops. General Steadman with his
            reserve corps was at Rossville. Fortune and misfortune were with General Rosecrans' army
            that morning. Fortune, in that our army was altogether, and that General Bragg was
            resting in the full belief that Rosecrans' forces were yet in the same position that
            they were on the morning of the 18th, with Crittenden isolated and alone at Lee &
            Gordon's Mills, and Thomas and Granger many miles distant on the right. All of this was
            fortunate for the Union army, but it was unfortunate that Rosecrans did not know that
            the rebel army was that morning well nigh all across on the west side of the
            Chickamauga. Brannan's division in position near Jay's mill, on the extreme left of our
            line, met Forest's cavalry about 7:30 a. m., and at once the battle of the 19th opened.
            One after another of the brigades extending toward the right took up the battle and the
            rush and roar of the contest extended toward the right from Jay's mill on past Thomas'
            corps to Crittenden's, while Negley's division at Glass' mill, nearly nine miles away
            from our left, was engaged with the enemy. But what of Dick's brigade and the
            Eighty-sixth Indiana?
          As before stated this brigade just before daylight had been relieved from duty with
            Wilder's brigade and moved to the rear a short distance, and toward Lee & Gordon's
            Mills, into an open field there to prepare breakfast, and to get such  rest as might be possible, until such time as the services
            of the regiment and brigade might be needed.
          The sun had scarcely appeared above the tops of the trees until the opening fire of the
            battle was heard away on its left. In a short time another shot, sounding as if one army
            or the other was feeling its way. The distance was too great to hear any sounds of
            musketry, but the artillery shots soon provoked answering shots, as if both armies were
            fully set in battle array before the opening gun was fired, for the firing seemed to run
            along the entire front in a very brief space of time. Now the firing on the left grows
            stronger, and between the artillery shots one catches the sound of musketry. Stronger
            and stronger grows the contest, and nearer, too, for there breaks upon the ear one
            continuous roar of artillery from the left, sweeping onward as the minutes sped, while
            volley after volley of musketry tells that the two armies have come together in the
            first charges of the battle.
          The contest gathers in strength as on it comes sweeping down on to the lines in front
            of where Dick's brigade waited, sweeping on to the right until it becomes one commingled
            roar of artillery and rattle of musketry, dying away in the dull and sullen thunder of
            Negley's guns on the farthermost right.
          The men of the Eighty-sixth can see none of the lines that are engaged, but from the
            sound of the battle it is believed by all that the Union army is holding its position
            against the furious charges that are being made upon it.
          A lull for a few moments comes in the deadly contest, and only a few scattering shots
            are heard along the line. Looking now to the front of the Eighty-sixth Indiana through
            an opening in the trees, may be seen, crossing a ridge, the marching columns of the
            enemy as he moves toward the left of our army, massing his forces against the troops of
            Thomas, preparatory to the terrible work of that Saturday afternoon along the line at
            Viniard's, at Brotherton's, in the Brock field, and at Poe's, in the desperate struggle
            to turn the left and get between Rosecrans and Chattanooga. The  lessening of the storm, however, is but brief, for again the sound of the
            contest begins to gather, and grows rapidly in strength. It came on like the blasts of a
            tornado, sounding louder and louder, stronger and yet stronger it rages, until it bursts
            upon the listener in a great rush and roar of terrible sound, before which those who
            hear and are not a part of it, stand in awe, and, looking each the other in the face,
            dare not speak.
          Over on the right it again broke forth, and with renewed strength rolled on down the
            lines, growing fiercer and fiercer, and louder and louder, as additional forces were
            brought into the contest, until it reached the extreme left in a crashing, tumultuous
            sound, when backward it would sweep to the right, only again to go rolling, and jarring
            and thundering in its fury as backward and forward it swept, that fearful storm of war.
            It was as when broad ocean is lashed to fury by the tempest, when great rolling waves
            come chasing one the other in their mighty rage, until they strike with deafening roar
            the solid walls of rock on the shore, only to be broken and driven back upon other
            incoming waves as strong, or stronger than they had been. So came to the ears of those
            waiting troops, the sound of that mighty tempest of war—volley after volley of
            musketry rolling in waves of dreadful sound, one upon the other, to which was added the
            deep sounding of the artillery, like heavy thunders peal through the rushing roar of the
            tempest, making the ground under foot tremble with the fearful shocks as they came and
            went, each more terrible than the former. It was evident to those who listened that the
            enemy with his mighty and superior numbers was making most desperate efforts to
            overwhelm and break the Union lines.
          Through that forenoon—and it seemed almost as though its hours would never
            pass—the Eighty-sixth and its brigade waited outside that contest, and heard that
            fearful, that terrible death dealing tornado as it raged in front and all about them,
            and could see the constantly moving columns of the enemy's infantry with flying flags,
            and could see battery after battery as they moved before them like a great panorama  unfolding in the opening on the ridge to which reference
            has been made.
          Dick's brigade had been sent back, as stated, to rest after a night on duty, but rest
            there was none. The guns of the infantry stood stacked in line, and the battery of six
            guns, attached to the brigade, stood just in rear of the troops, with all the horses
            hitched to guns and caissons ready to move at any instant. Now and then a stray shot or
            shell would fly over the heads of these men and strike in the ground or burst in the
            air, to their rear.
          The men grew restless, that restlessness that comes to men in that most trying of all
            times in the life of a soldier, when he hears the battle raging with all the might of
            the furies about him, when now and then he can catch the sound of the distant shouts
            that tell all too plainly that the charge is on, and can hear the first shot that begins
            that rattling, tearing, shrieking sound of the volleys of musketry, and of the shot, and
            shell and canister of the artillery that drowns in its fury the shouts and cheers of the
            charging lines, and that tells to the experienced soldier that the charge is met by
            determined and heroic troops, and that great gaps are being torn in the lines—that
            men and comrades are being torn and mangled and killed.
          In such moments and under such circumstances as these, strong men pale, and the body
            grows hot and weak, and the heart of the bravest almost ceases to beat; then it is that
            the hearer realizes to the fullest extent that war is terrible.
          The men are hungry, but they cannot eat; they are tired and worn, but they cannot rest,
            the limbs and feet ache, and they cannot sit down; they lie prone upon the ground, but
            in that position the sound of the battle is intensified, and they rise up; speak to them
            if you will, and they answer you as if in a dream; they laugh, but it is a laugh that
            has no joy in it. The infantry stay close to their gun stacks; the artillerymen, drivers
            and gunners, stand near to their posts of duty, in a terrible, fearful state of unrest.
            That body of men who thus stood almost unnerved on that September day were not lacking
            in true soldierly qualities.  Their bravery had been
            tested on other fields. They had passed through the ordeal at Donelson, at Shiloh, at
            Perryville, at Stone's River. There they had met the enemy in the hottest and fiercest
            of the battle with all the bravery and firmness of the Roman, and again when the time
            shall come for them under orders to take their place in the charging line, or in
            position with their comrades to receive the enemy's assault, they will not be found
            wanting. Thus hour after hour was passed by these waiting troops, in a dreadful state of
            anxiety and suspense. There were no tidings from the front. They only knew that the
            battle was fearful, terrible. Noontime came and passed, and still the battle raged with
            undiminished fury, and this brigade still waited orders to move. Another hour beyond
            midday had passed, and the second was drawing toward its close, when suddenly from out
            the woods to the front and left of Dick's brigade onto the open field, dashed an
            officer, his horse urged to its greatest speed toward the expectant troops. The men see
            him coming, and in an instant a new life has taken possession of them. "There comes
            orders," are the words that pass from lip to lip along that line. Without commands the
            lines are reformed behind the gun stacks, ready for the command, "Take arms." The
            cannoneers stand at their posts ready to mount limber chest and caisson. The drivers
            "stand to horse," and with hand on rein and toe in stirrup, for details of the drill are
            forgotten in the feverish anxiety for the command to "mount" and away. How quick, how
            great the change at the prospect of freedom from the suspense of the day. The eye has
            lighted up, the arm has again grown strong, and the nerves are once more steady. All is
            now eagerness for the work that must be before them. Every head is bent forward to
            catch, if possible, the first news from the front, and to hear the orders that are to be
            given. All are thoroughly aroused; there will soon be no more suspense. It is to be
            action for Dick's brigade on until the close of the battle. Nearer and nearer comes the
            rider. Now could be distinguished his features, and one could see the fearful
            earnestness that was written on every line of his face. He leaned  forward as he rode, in such haste he was. The horse he rode had caught the
            spirit of the rider, and horse and rider by their every movement made told to the
            experienced soldiers to whom they were hastening that there was to be work for them,
            that the urgency was great, and that the peril was imminent.
          How much there is of life, of the soldier's life in time of war, that cannot be painted
            on canvas or described in words. It is the inexpressible part, that something in the
            face, in the eye, in the swaying of the body, the gesture of the hand, and the officer,
            the soldier, reads in those movements and appearances the very facts, terrible in
            detail, that are afterwards put into words. No one who has seen the life of the soldier
            in actual warfare but has just seen such occasions and just such faces. Such was the
            face, and such the movement of that staff officer that afternoon of September 19, 1863.
            He had not spoken a word, there had been no uplifting of the hand as he rode across that
            field, but that indescribable appearance spoke for him. Every soldier as he saw him,
            read that face and form as though from an open book, yes, and read in all its awful,
            dreadful meaning that his comrades were in deepest peril, and that help must be borne
            quickly, or all hope would be gone, and thus reading, every man was ready to do his full
            duty. Not long delayed were the orders, and as he approaches, this officer is met by
            Colonel Dick, as anxious to receive the orders as he is to give them. The command comes
            in quick, sharp words: "The General presents his compliments and directs that you move
            your brigade at once to the support of General Beatty. Take the road, moving by the
            flank to the right, double quick. I am to direct you," and then he added so those who
            stood near heard the words, "Our men are hard pressed." The last sentence was all that
            was said in words as to the condition of our troops, but it was enough, and those who
            heard knew they had read aright before he had spoken.
          Scarce had the orders been received by Colonel Dick, when the command,
            "Take—Arms!" was heard along the line, and the artillery bugle sounded for
            cannoneers and 179  drivers, "Mount." It scarcely took the
            time required to tell it for the brigade to get in motion moving out of the field and
            onto the road. The artillery took the beaten road, the infantry alongside. It was a
            grand scene as the men moved quickly into place, closing up the column and waiting but a
            moment for the command to move.
          The guns of the infantry are at right shoulder, and all have grown eager for the order,
            "Forward." The bugle sounds the first note of the command. Now look along that column;
            the men are leaning forward for the start; the drivers on the artillery teams tighten
            the rein in the left hand, and, with the whip in the uplifted right arm, rise in their
            stirrups; and as the last note of the bugle is sounded, the crack of the whips of
            thirty-six drivers over the backs of as many horses, and the stroke of the spurs, sends
            that battery of six guns and its caissons rattling and bounding over that road, while
            the infantry alongside are straining every nerve as they hasten to the relief of the
            comrades so hard pressed. The spirits of the men grow higher and higher with each moment
            of the advance. The rattling of the artillery and the hoof beats of the horses add to
            the excitement of the onward rush, infantry and artillery thus side by side vieing each
            with the other which shall best do his part. Now, as they come nearer, the storm of the
            battle seems to grow greater and greater. On and yet on they press, until reaching the
            designated point, the artillery is turned off to the left on to a ridge, and go into
            position along its crest, while the lines of the infantry are being formed to the right
            of the road over which they have just been hurrying. The brigade lines are scarcely
            formed, and the command to move forward given, when the lines which are in the advance
            are broken by a terrific charge of the enemy, and are driven back in confusion onto our
            line—friend and foe so intermingled that a shot cannot be fired without inflicting
            as much injury on our men as upon the enemy.
          The artillery, on the crest of the ridge back of the brigade, have unlimbered and gone
            into action, and its shells are  now flying overhead into
            the woods, where the enemy's lines had been. Confusion seems to have taken possession of
            our lines, and, to add to it, the lines to the right have been broken and the enemy is
            sweeping past our flank. The order is given to fall back on line with the artillery. Out
            of the wood, under the fire of the cannon, the men hasten. Now on the crest of that
            ridge, without works of any kind to shelter them, the troops are again hastily formed,
            and none too soon. Down the gentle sloop of that ridge, and away to the right and left
            and front stretches an open field, without tree or shrub to break the force of the
            balls. In front, and at the edge of the field, two hundred yards away, runs the road
            parallel with our lines; beyond the road the heavy timber where the Confederate lines
            are formed, and well protected in their preparations for their charge. Scarce had the
            lines been formed when the sharp crack of the rifles along our front, and the whistling
            of the balls over our heads, gave us warning that the advance of the enemy had begun,
            and in an instant the shouts of the skirmishers are drowned by the shout that goes up
            from the charging column as it starts down in the woods. The men are ready. The
            Eighty-sixth Indiana is on the left of the brigade, the Seventh Indiana
            battery—six guns—is on the right of the regiment; Battery M, Fourth United
            States artillery, is on its left. The gunners and every man of those two batteries are
            at their posts of duty, the tightly drawn lines in their faces showing their purpose
            there to stand for duty or die. To the right of the Seventh Indiana battery was the
            Forty-fourth Indiana and beyond this to the right is the remainder of the brigade with
            its battery. Officers pass the familiar command of caution along the line—"Steady,
            men, steady." The shout of the charging foe comes rapidly on; now they burst out of the
            woods and onto the road. As if touched by an electric cord, so quick and so in unison
            was it, the rifles leap to the shoulder along the ridge where wave the stars and
            stripes. Now the enemy is in plain view along the road covering the entire front; you
            can see them, as with cap visors drawn well down over their eyes, the gun at the  charge, with short, shrill shout they come, and the colors
            of Johnson's division of Longstreet's corps can be seen, flushed with victory,
            confronting us. The men on the ridge recognized the gallantry of their charging foe, and
            their pride is touched as well. All this is but the work of an instant, when, just as
            that long line of gray has crossed the road, quick and sharp rings out along the line
            the command "Ready—Fire!" It seems to come to infantry and artillery at the same
            instant, and out from the rifles of the men and the mouths of those cannons leap the
            death-dealing bullet and canister; again and again, with almost lightning rapidity, they
            pour in their deadly, merciless fire, until along that entire ridge it has become almost
            one continuous volley, one sheet of flame. Now that corps that had known little of
            defeat begins to waver; their men had fallen thick and fast about them. Again and yet
            again the volleys are poured into them, and the artillery on our right and left have not
            ceased their deadly work. No troops can long withstand such fire; their lines waver,
            another volley and they are broken and now fall back in confusion. The charge was not
            long in point of time, but was terrible in its results to the foe.
          Along the entire line to the right and left the battle raged with increased fury. We
            are now on the defensive; and all can judge that the lull in front is only the stillness
            that forebodes the more terrible storm that is to come. A few logs and rails are hastily
            gathered together to form a slight breastwork. Soon the scattering shots that began to
            fall about us, like the first heavy drops of the rain storm, gave warning that the foe
            was again moving to the attack. Again we are ready, now lying behind our
            hastily-prepared works. Again is heard the shout as on he comes with more determination
            than before; but with even greater courage do our men determine to hold their lines. The
            artillery is double shotted with canister. Again the command, "Fire!" and hotter,
            fiercer than before the battle rages along our front. Shout is answered with shout, shot
            by shot tenfold, until again the assailants break before that  terrible death dealing fire and are again forced back. But why repeat
            further the story of that Saturday afternoon. Again and again were those charges
            repeated along that line, only to be hurled back—broken than and shattered. It did
            seem as though our men were more human. The artillerymen worked as never before. Their
            guns—double shotted—had scarce delivered their charges, when before the gun
            could complete its recoil, it was caught by strong arms, made doubly strong in that
            fever heat of battle, was again in position, again double shotted, and again fired into
            the face of the foe. The arm bared, the veins standing out in great strong lines, the
            hat or cap gone from the head, the eyes starting almost from the socket, the teeth set,
            the face beaded with perspiration, balls falling all about them, those men of the
            Seventh Indiana battery and Battery M seemed to be supernaturally endowed with strength.
            Their comrades of the infantry vied with them in acts of heroism, and daring, and
            endurance. They shouted definance at the foe with every shot; with face and hands
            begrimed in the smoke and dust and heat of the battle; with comrades falling about them,
            the survivors thought only of vengeance. All the horses on two of the guns of the
            Seventh Indiana battery were shot down; another charge is beginning; those two guns
            might be lost; they must be gotten back. Quick as thought a company of infantry spring
            to the guns, one hand holding the rifle, the other on the cannon, and with the shot
            falling thick and fast in and about them, drag the guns over the brow of the ridge and
            down into the woods, just in the rear of our lines, and hasten back again to take their
            places in lines, ready to meet the on-coming charge. An artilleryman is shot down; a man
            from the infantry takes his place and obeys orders as best he can. When the charge began
            our men were lying down. Then, in the midst of it, so great became the excitement, so
            intense the anxiety, all fear and prudence vanished, and the men leaped to their feet,
            and would fire and load, and fire and load, in the wildest frenzy of desperation. They
            had lost all ideas of danger, or the strength of the assailant. It was this absolute desperation of  the men that held our
            lines. A soldier or officer was wounded; unless the wound was mortal or caused the
            fracture of a limb, they had the wound tied or bandaged as best they could, some tearing
            up their blouses for bandages, and again took their places in the lines beside their
            more fortunate comrades. Each man felt the terrible weight of responsibility that rested
            on him personally for the results that shall be achieved that day. It is this disregard
            of peril in the moment of greatest danger, this decision, this purpose and grand courage
            that comes only to the American citizen soldiery who voluntarily and with unselfish
            patriotism stands in defense of principle and country, that make such soldiers as those
            who fought in those ranks that day. On through the afternoon until nightfall did that
            furious storm beat against and rage about that line.
          If the storm of battle raged hotly around the position occupied by the Eighty-sixth
            Indiana and Dick's brigade, it was none the less fierce along the whole line. The entire
            movements of the army were from right to left. This was made necessary on the part of
            Rosecrans from the fact that General Bragg's plan of battle was to flank the left of the
            Union army and cut Rosecrans off from Chattanooga, and that he, Bragg, with his entire
            army on the flank of Rosecrans could drive him with the superior force under his command
            southward into the rough and mountainous country toward McLemore's Cove, and thus be
            able to absolutely destroy Rosecrans and his army. During the afternoon of September 19,
            while the severe battle was raging along the line of Dick's brigade and VanCleve's
            division, further to the right at the Viniard farm, the battle had been raging with all
            the might of the "furies."
          Wilder's brigade of mounted infantry had sent all their horses to the rear, and during
            the entire forenoon this command had firmly held its position against the repeated
            assaults of the foe. The noon hour of the 19th found the brigade at the same position
            which it had taken at early dawn after the fight of Friday night; they had received
            repeated charges, but each charging line was driven back leaving the field over  which it had come strewn with the dead and dying. About
            noon of that day, Davis' division of McCook's corps had come from Crawfish Springs and
            reported to General Rosecrans at the Widow Glenn's, and were at once ordered eastward to
            the Viniard farm to aid in making that portion of the line more secure, and was formed
            in line of battle on Wilder's right. Barnes' brigade, of VanCleve division, was moved to
            the left from Lee & Gordon's Mills, and went into position on the right of Davis'
            division. Moving down over the Viniard farm they crossed the LaFayette road, moving
            eastward. They had scarcely crossed the road when they at once became heavily engaged
            with the Confederate left. The tide of battle swayed backward and forward over the
            Viniard farm. At first the Union lines forced the enemy back to the east and into the
            woods, and the enemy reforming and securing reinforcements in turn drove Union troops
            back to the west, capturing the Eighth Indiana battery, and pushed our troops westward
            beyond the LaFayette road until the high ground and the sheltering woods were reached,
            when the lines were reformed, and a counter charge was made, and the enemy was again
            driven from the field and the guns of the Eighth Indiana were recaptured. Thus the storm
            of battle swayed back and forth until 4 o'clock in the afternoon. The loss on both sides
            was fearful. There were sufficient forces of the Confederates in reserve to refill the
            ranks, and in each charge they brought up their lines in as strong numbers as at first.
            This was not the case with the Union lines. The three hours of constant fighting, and
            fighting with desperation by both armies, was telling with fearful effect upon the men
            of Rosecrans' right. There were no fresh men with which to fill their rapidly decreasing
            numbers, and each charge that was made or met, found a less number to push the attack or
            stem the tide of battle. When 4 o'clock came their lines were well nigh exhausted by the
            fearful physical exertion, as well as in loss of men. At this hour, however, two
            brigades of Wood's division of the Twenty-first corps, came up on the double quick from
            Lee & Gordon's Mills, and placing one brigade on the right of Davis' line, and
            pushing the other  behind the lines it went into action on
            the left of Wilder's line, and again the battle raged more fiercely. A little later
            Sheridan came up with his division, and from the south of the Viniard house to and in
            front of Dick's brigade on to the Brotherton house was one continuous line of battle,
            men fighting to the death until the sun went down on the bloody field.
          The fighting by General Thomas' corps on the extreme left of the Union army, from the
            opening of the battle in the morning at Jay's mill and extending from there until it
            reached the Twenty-first corps, was equally severe with that which has been told herein
            concerning the battle at the Viniard farm and on to Brotherton's. Thomas, with his
            corps, received from General Bragg the strongest blows that it was possible to give, in
            the hope that lie might break the line and get the left of the Union army turned. But at
            the close of the day from the left of the Twenty-first corps to Thomas' right but little
            had been gained by General Bragg, and the Union lines were practically in the position
            of the opening of the battle. For awhile after nightfall there was comparative quiet,
            when suddenly from the front of the Brotherton house, in the Reed field, once more the
            din and rattle and roar of the battle broke forth. This was an attack in the darkness on
            the part of the enemy to break through our lines at that point, and it was here that the
            gallant Colonel Baldwin was killed. The fighting for an hour was severe, but the enemy
            was finally repulsed. This outbreak having ceased quiet once more reigned, and the men
            wearied and worn with the day's work and excitement, lay down on the ground to get such
            rest as they might, not knowing at what time the storm might again burst upon them.
          It was a night of pinching cold, and with but little sleep from the ill comfort of the
            situation, the men were illy prepared for the renewed tax that was to be made upon them
            for the day that would soon dawn. The morning of the 20th came all too soon, but as it
            was Sunday the men questioned one another as to the probabilities of a battle on that
            day.  It was not strange, however, that the question was
            asked. Never in their own homes was their a more quiet Sabbath morning than the Sabbath
            morning which dawned upon the armies that lay upon the bloody battle-field of
            Chickamauga. If there had been a faint hope that the army would rest on its arms
            throughout that bright Sabbath morning and through the hours of the day, it was of short
            duration, for soon the orders came for a forward movement, and when the orders were
            given there were no laggards found. Soldiers never obeyed more promptly, nor with more
            ready spirit than were the orders obeyed that were given on Sunday morning, September
            20, 1863, at Chickamauga. The soldiers that moved out that morning, and they who stood
            in lines that were not to be changed, realized to the fullest extent that when the
            battle would open that the contest would at least equal the bloody work of the previous
            day. They knew the foe that confronted them. They had grappled in the deadly struggle on
            other fields, they had met in the charge and counter charge, and each had learned the
            courage and stubbornness of the other.
          While our portion of the army had rested through Saturday night, this was not true as
            to other portions of the army. There had been busy work going on during the hours of the
            night. Rosecrans had been rearranging his lines, and by every means at hand had sought
            to strengthen the weaker portions, and so adjust other parts that they would be the
            better able to withstand the fierce assaults that he well knew would certainly be made
            as soon as General Bragg could put his army in motion on Sunday morning. In the battle
            of Saturday, with the exception of two brigades, every available man that General
            Rosecrans had, was engaged. There were only these two brigades, and in addition thereto
            General Granger's Reserve corps, then back at Rossville, that could by any possibility
            be brought in, and it was a doubtful proposition as to whether these could be brought
            up. One of these brigades, the First of the First division of the Twentieth corps, had
            been left with the trains at Lookout Mountain, near Stevens' Gap. This brigade, on
            Sunday the  20th, reached Crawfish Springs, but was cut
            off from its corps and unable to reach the front, and from Crawfish Springs under orders
            moved to Chattanooga. The other brigade was that of Brigadier General William H. Lytle,
            First brigade, Third division, Twentieth corps. This brigade had been left at Lee &
            Gordon's Mills on Saturday, when the portion of the Twenty-first corps that was then
            there was moved to the left to Viniard's. This brigade had been placed in position to
            guard the crossing of the Chickamauga, and there remained until Sunday morning, when it
            was brought forward as far as General Rosecrans' headquarters at the Widow Glenn's. The
            reserve corps of Granger came up during the afternoon of Sunday. Thus it appears that
            for the battle in the forenoon on Sunday, Rosecrans had only one fresh brigade that he
            could put into the battle to reinforce the men who had fought so gallantly during the
            whole of the day before.
          On the other side it is now definitely known that, although General Bragg had greatly
            outnumbered General Rosecrans on Saturday, yet on Sunday morning had ready to to put
            into the already unequal contest in point of numbers, Hindman's, Breckenridge's and
            Kershaw's divisions, and Gracie's, Kelley's and Gist's brigades. These reinforcements of
            fresh troops of Bragg were superior in numbers to more than any corps of General
            Rosecrans' army. If the Union army had on Saturday waged an unequal warfare, it was much
            more unequal on Sunday. Not only this, although Lieutenant General Longstreet's troops
            got into the battle on Saturday afternoon, he himself did not come up until after the
            fighting had closed on Saturday night, and his presence with his troops of the Army of
            Northern Virginia gave additional power and effect to that portion of Bragg's army, if
            it did not also materially add to the confidence of all the remainder of the Confederate
            forces. Thus having noted the comparative numerical strength of the two armies for the
            renewal of the struggle on Sunday, September 20, let us take a glance at the position of
            our lines before the battle again opens.
          
          The LaFayette road was to be the line of contention on this day as well as of Saturday.
            The forces of General Rosecrans were formed on Sunday morning thus: The troops at the
            Viniard farm were moved west to the range of hills near the Widow Glenn's, and to these
            were added Lytle's brigade which had been brought up from Lee & Gordon's Mills. The
            line extended to the northeast and joined the lines at the rear of the Brotherton field;
            from this the line continued to the northeast reaching and crossing to the east side of
            the LaFayette road between the Poe house and Kelly's fields; from this it ran east on a
            line a little south of the Kelly field and then turned north and a little east on the
            east side of the Kelly field and after passing the north line of the Kelly field ran
            westward until it reached and covered about half of the distance to the LaFayette road.
            In the arrangement of his divisions General Rosecrans had placed Sheridan's division, of
            the Twentieth corps, on the right and in front of the Widow Glenn's, and Wilder's
            brigade with two regiments on the right and two regiments of Wilder's and the
            Thirty-ninth Indiana, also a mounted infantry regiment, on the left of Sheridan, on the
            highest ground at Widow Glenn's house, their line extending north and south and facing
            east. Negley's division then came next and was in line west of Brotherton's. Brannan's
            division next along the western side of the Poe field and extending to the LaFayette
            road, while on the east side of the Lafayette road were Reynolds', Palmer's, Johnson's
            and Baird's divisions, in the order named. The three divisions of Davis, Wood and
            VanCleve were in the rear of the center awaiting orders, and ready to take position
            wherever the exigencies of the occasion might demand. The division of Wood was soon
            placed in the line on the right of Brannon, while Davis' division was put into position
            on the right of Wood, and toward 10 o'clock VanCleve was sent to the support of
            Thomas.
          The rebel line overlapped the Union lines both on the right and left and was formed as
            follows: Beginning on his right was Forest's cavalry, two divisions, extending beyond
               the Union left and east of it; Breckenridge, Cleburne
            and Stewart with their commands were on the east and south lines of the Kelly field, and
            along the east line of the Poe field; Walker with two divisions was supporting
            Breckenridge, and Cheatham, with five brigades, was in reserve behind Cleburne; General
            Bushrod Johnson, in line, was east of the Brotherton house with the two divisions of Law
            and Kershaw immediately in his rear in column of divisions; then on the left of Bushrod
            Johnson was Hindman and yet on his left was Preston on the east and south of the Viniard
            farm. A glance at the forces as thus placed in battle array shows the immense
            superiority of numbers under Bragg's command over those of General Rosecrans, and it is
            to be further considered as an advantage in favor of Bragg's army that it had the inner
            arch of the circle, the shorter line, and consequently easier for the handling and
            disposition of troops. Along almost the entire front of Rosecrans it is seen they had
            their divisions in columns, while Rosecrans had only a single line.
          Sunday at Chickamauga was marked for General Bragg with another blunder by somebody,
            and furnished another escape or deliverance for the left of the Union army. Bragg had
            issued his orders for an assault at daylight upon the extreme left of Rosecrans lines,
            and this assault was to be followed successively from his left to right. Bragg had
            divided his army into wings, the right and left. General Polk was assigned to the
            command of the right wing and General Longstreet to the command of the left wing. The
            orders for the attack at daylight were to General Polk, and under the orders given
            General Longstreet was to govern his conduct and movements by those of Polk. General
            Bragg at daybreak took his position near the center of his army and waited expectantly
            and anxiously for the sound of Polk's guns. Daylight came, but the battle did not begin.
            An hour passed and yet no sound of battle, another hour and the silence was yet
            unbroken. The patience of General Bragg was by this time entirely exhausted and he rode
            in haste to ascertain the cause of the delay, and found to his astonishment that General
            Polk  was not even on the field, nor had any preparations
            been made by him for the opening of a battle that had in it so much of moment for the
            cause of the Confederacy.
          General Bragg, in person, then commenced as earnestly and as rapidly as possible to
            push forward the preparations for the attack which should have been completed by his
            subordinate before day dawned. While making these preparations he found that the left of
            the Union army did not extend sufficiently to protect the LaFayette road. Here was his
            opportunity for which he had watched and waited and fought for from the opening of the
            battle, and it did seem as if the much coveted possession of that road between Rosecrans
            and Chattanooga was now within his grasp. In this, however, he was doomed to
            disappointment, and many lives were to go out before the desired road would be secured,
            all because of the disobedience of orders by General Polk, and the failure to attack at
            daylight. During Saturday night General Rosecrans had held a council of war with his
            Generals, and the disposition of the forces was fully agreed upon. Thomas knew full well
            that of all things it was important that his left should be secure beyond all
            peradventure. Baird's division, then on the extreme left, had thrown up barricades and
            constructed such defenses as were possible during the night, but these unsupported on
            the left would be of little use against a repetition of the fierce assaults of the
            preceding day. General Thomas in his report says: "After my
                return from Department headquarters, about 2 a. m., on the 20th, I received a report
                from General Baird that the left of his division did not rest on the Reed's bridge
                road, as I had intended, and that he could not reach it without weakening his line
                too much. I immediately addressed a note to the General commanding, requesting that
                General Negley be sent me to take position on Baird's left and rear, and thus secure
                our left from assault."
          General Rosecrans at once notified General Thomas that General Negley would be sent in
            accordance with the request. At 7 a. m. on that morning, Negley had not reported, and
            General Thomas sent a staff officer to learn the cause and to hasten him forward.
            General Negley was prevented from going to the position on the left because of the
            massing of  the enemy in his front, therefore instead of
            General Negley, with his division, General John Beatty, with his brigade, was sent, and
            hurrying with all speed he had just succeeded in getting into position when the assault,
            under General Bragg's direction, began. Had General Bragg's orders been obeyed, and the
            attack made at daylight, then our left would have been destroyed, Bragg would have
            secured the road, and the result of the Chattanooga campaign would doubtless have been
            different. As it was General John Beatty succeeded in holding the position until later,
            when additional troops arrived and thus our left escaped destruction and Chattanooga was
            saved. The attack on our left was as indicated in General Bragg's orders to Polk and
            Longstreet, the signal for the attack to sweep down and along the entire line of
            Rosecrans from flank to flank, and so when the assault was made upon Baird's troops on
            our left the struggle of Saturday was renewed along the whole line. The difference in
            the opening of the battle on Sunday morning differed from the opening on Saturday only
            in the fact that it was fiercer at the outset and that it was almost instantaneous along
            the whole line. On Saturday both armies had been compelled in the opening hours of the
            battle to feel their way; they were in ignorance of the positions of each other, and
            both were for the first time on that field going into position, but when they did come
            together, brigade with brigade, or division with division; they came with the fury of
            the tornado. On Sunday morning neither army had to hunt for the other. They had been
            face to face for twenty-four hours, and each knew the force and resistance of the other.
            So in the opening of the battle on Sunday morning it was at once a tempest, strong and
            fearful, that broke upon our entire line without any scattering raindrops of
            warning.
          When the right of Bragg's army struck Thomas' left under Baird and Beatty it became at
            once a struggle between Titans. The charge upon Baird and Beatty was by Breckenridge and
            Cleburne, and so severe was their punishment and fearful was their loss that they were
            shattered and driven back, and although they outnumbered and overlapped  our left, they were not able to push in behind our troops
            and turn them. The first assault along our entire line on Sunday was a failure, but with
            the strong reserves of Bragg if one line failed and the first charge was repulsed and
            his troops were driven back, the second line at once took it up and followed repeating
            the charge; if the second failed, the third line took up the charge, and from right to
            left Rosecrans' men at the outset not only had their courage put to the severest test,
            but their physical endurance was to be tried to the utmost. At and about the Kelly field
            charge after charge was made upon our lines and each time was repulsed.
          If one will go to-day and stand upon the Kelly field and will learn the situation as it
            was on Sunday, September 20, 1863, and as an officer or soldier who has passed through
            some of the severe battles of the war, he can appreciate the awful and terrible storm of
            war that raged on the south and east of that field, it will seem impossible to believe
            that any one could have lived a minute after the assault began. And yet in that Kelly
            field and along its south and east line that terrible storm of destruction and death had
            most awful sway from 9 o'clock of the morning until 5:30 o'clock in the evening. From
            front and flank over that field was sent the leaden and iron hail as fast as men could
            load and fire, and fire and load. The minnie ball, and the ball and shot of the musket,
            solid shot and canister, and screaming shell went whistling and screaming over, across
            and through that small area and men lived and fought and fought through the the long,
            long day. While the fight was at its strongest at the Kelly field, across the Poe field
            the battle was raging as strong, and men were falling by the hundreds. The line was
            closed up again and the survivors, one and all, in the strength and endurance displayed,
            fought as if they might have received the strength and courage of their fallen comrades
            into their bodies and souls for the work that was before them, as the young prophet
            received the mantle of the ascending prophet. If the line wavered, a cheer from those
            who were  standing firm reassured the wavering, and again
            the line grew steadfast.
          In the midst of this fearful storm to which the Eighty-sixth Indiana had listened for
            more than an hour, there came the order for it with its brigade to move forward to
            reinforce the line north of the Poe house and on the west side of the LaFayette road. It
            was not long until the regiment was within the leaden storm. The order was given for a
            charge, and down and through the scattered trees the regiment and brigade go to their
            work. The resistance was stubborn, but impetuous and determined is the charge, comrade
            cheering comrade as onward they push their way; men are falling but on and on rush the
            lines, until at last the enemy's lines are broken and we follow in hot pursuit driving
            them back until a line of reinforcements for the enemy is reached. Again the battle
            rages about us. With redoubled lines a counter charge is made and and the very earth
            shakes from the terrible storm of artillery along the entire lines. Shells are shrieking
            in the air and bursting overhead; great limbs are torn from the trees and fall with the
            broken shells all about the men engaged.
          Until after 10 o'clock the Union troops were preserving their lines intact
            notwithstanding the terrible assaults that were being made upon them. Longstreet with
            his famous command had made repeated charges drawing upon his reserves one line after
            the other as fast as they could be thrown into action. The artillery of both armies were
            putting forth almost superhuman efforts, those of the Confederate army to demoralize and
            break or weaken the Union lines before the charging lines should reach Rosecrans'
            troops, while on the other side the artillery of the Union army were giving their fire
            with shell, and shrapnel and canister as rapidly as the guns could be loaded and fired,
            vieing with the infantry in their efforts to repulse the oncoming lines of the enemy.
            All sense of danger seemed to be lost, and men and officers alike strove to the utmost
            through the terrible fire and carnage. The men for the most part were without works of
            any kind to protect them  from the deluge of lead and iron
            that was being showered upon them. A little after 10 o'clock there came a lull on the
            right of the Union lines, and General Rosecrans, thinking and believing that Bragg was
            again pursuing the tactics of Saturday, massing against Rosecrans' left, undertook to
            change the position of the troops of his right wing in order to reinforce and strengthen
            his left. He ordered General McCook to send two brigades of General Sheridan's division
            to General Thomas, with all possible dispatch, and to send also the Third brigade as
            soon as it could be withdrawn from the line. He also directed General Crittenden to send
            two brigades of VanCleve to the support of Thomas. The sending of the brigades of
            Sheridan and VanCleve left no sufficient force to withstand an assault of the enemy if
            another should be made in force on the Union right. To add to the misfortunes that were
            about to befall the right and center of the Union lines, General Thomas J. Wood received
            a peremptory order to "close up on Reynolds and support him." As General Brannan was
            between Wood and Reynolds, there was no way to obey the order except to withdraw from
            the line and march to the left in rear of Brannan. Wood obeyed and executed the order as
            he received it, withdrawing the troops from the line. It was just at the time that
            Longstreet had gathered his troops for another onslaught upon our right that Wood, in
            obedience to his orders, had moved out and left a wide gap in the lines. Longstreet's
            order was given and his hosts came pouring through this gap, striking our lines in
            front, rear and flank. Rushing through the wide open door in our lines on over the
            Brotherton field where the fight had raged so hotly on Saturday, then turning to the
            northwest through and over the Dyer fields, they struck the troops of Sheridan, then on
            their way to reinforce Thomas at Poe and Kelly fields. The battle was raging in front,
            rear and flank on our lines in the Poe field. The troops could not stand this very long.
            The charges made there in the woods and in the field were met by counter charges, and
            men fought face to face and hand to  hand. All to the
            right of General Brannan were swept from the field. The noon hour had come and the
            broken lines of Rosecrans' right, though routed from their positions, were neither
            whipped nor dismayed. Longstreet's men, flushed with their success, were pressing
            northward past the Brotherton house and over the Dyer field on toward Snodgrass Hill,
            and Harker Hill. Men fought as they fell back. Here a noncommissioned officer or private
            would halt, face about and commence firing, calling on his comrades to rally and reform
            their lines, and from this one man the lines would build out almost like magic and a new
            line would be formed. A Captain or Lieutenant would give the commands to men gathered
            from almost every regiment on that portion of the field until he would have under his
            command as many men as would ordinarily compose a regiment. Colonel Morton C. Hunter, of
            the Eighty-second Indiana, had received the shock of the charge after Longstreet came
            through the lines, had recharged and broke the enemy's lines, but could not stem the
            oncoming tide. He then fell back fighting until he reached Snodgrass Hill and formed his
            line and called upon the scattered troops to form on his regiment, and that there they
            would hold the line. At once the fragments of the regiments that had been caught in the
            break caused by the moving of Woods' division troops began as quickly as possible to
            form, and form they did. In this line were men from every Indiana regiment, along with
            those from other States. It was not long until regiments and brigades were brought to
            the line first established by Colonel Hunter. The line extended westward over Snodgrass
            Hill into Dry Valley, and extending to the east of Colonel Hunter for a few rods, when
            it ran northward and eastward of the Snodgrass Hill and house to what is now called
            Harker's Hill.
          Until 3 o'clock the battle raged and surged about Snodgrass Hill and on to Harker's
            hill. The troops of Longstreet came up over the country in solid lines, and hurled
            themselves against these hastily formed lines, and as often as they came were they
            forced back, broken and shattered. Again and again, and again they came on with the rush
            of  the storm, and as often did they find themselves
            defeated and stricken down. After repeated efforts to break these lines, Longstreet, who
            had brought with him as they boasted, "the Invincibles," found that his troops had
            exhausted their strength and our lines remained as firm as the hill on which they stood.
            Despairing of success, General Longstreet sent a staff officer to General Bragg asking
            for additional troops from his right. To this request General Bragg responded that the
            troops of his right wing "had been so badly beaten back" that they could render him no
            service. The men of the Union left were now almost out of ammunition, but they could not
            and would not relinquish their position. Orders were given that when the last shot was
            fired then to fix bayonets and use the cold steel.
          General Thomas was now in command of the troops on the field. General Rosecrans had
            started for Chattanooga to look after the location of the lines at that point. If there
            was need of reinforcements for Longstreet there was also dire need of reinforcements for
            Thomas as he alone was left to direct and save the Union army. These reinforcements came
            in an unexpected moment and their coming saved the field to the Union army. General
            Gordon Granger, on the extreme left, at Rossville gap, had heard the constant roar of
            the battle throughout the day, and had waited and waited for orders which had not come.
            He felt that his troops must be needed and without orders from any one he placed himself
            at the head of his reserve corps and moved out to the sound of the battle's roar. He had
            with him General Steadman's division and Colonel Dan McCook's brigade. Steadman's
            division had the advance, and was composed mostly of new troops, but never was a body of
            men more needed than were these of Steadman. Longstreet, after failing to secure
            reinforcements, had reformed his lines for another assault. Longstreet then had for his
            new assault three full divisions and two brigades, that had been with him all day, and
            taking part in the battle. He also had here Preston's Confederate division, two brigades
            of which were fresh and were then brought into action for the first time during that day
            Just  as Longstreet was making his final preparations for
            another desperate assault Steadman's troops came up and passing by General Thomas were
            directed to form on the right of the troops already on Snodgrass Hill. This they did and
            had just moved into position when Longstreet's charge again began. Steadman's men met
            the charge with a counter charge so daring and so terrific in its force that it broke
            Longstreet's left and swept it off the side of the hills and back, and yet further back,
            broken and scattered, with the dead and wounded covering the ground, and yet pursuing
            wrenched from Longstreet's forces the hills where he had planted his artillery at
            Vidito's.
          It was a magnificent charge and the "boys" of Steadman's division "won their spurs" in
            that charge if ever knight of old by gallantry won his spurs. Our lines were now
            reformed and strengthened as best they could be. The ammunition in the cartridge boxes
            of the men who had fallen was gathered up and distributed, Steadman's men dividing their
            ammunition with those who had none. The ammunition trains, by some officer's orders, no
            one knew whose, had gone on to Chattanooga. The very fact that a superior force was
            before them and that they had so little ammunition, was sufficient of itself to strike
            dismay to the hearts of these Union troops on Snodgrass Hill. But not so. The Spartans
            of old had no more courageous troops than were these men, boys rather, who faced the foe
            in the closing hours of Sunday, September 20, 1863, holding the line that was to save
            the Army of the Cumberland, save Chattanooga, and wring from defeat a victory so grand,
            so magnificent that it shall yet pass into history as even greater than Thermopylæ.
          Turning for awhile from the magnificent defense of the Union right in the closing hours
            of the day, let the reader go once more to the left where the battle had opened in the
            morning. Remember that in the first charge at the opening of the battle on Sunday
            morning that Breckenridge's troops were unable to break the Union left. Again reforming
            the line they moved out for the attack, and notwithstanding the severe repulse  they had received, they rushed forward with even more
            daring than in the first, but here again they were met with direct musketry in the front
            and were enfiladed by a battery of four guns which poured canister into their ranks, and
            with the musketry increasing, their men went down like grass before a reaper. It was a
            fire in which no troops could live, and the remnant recoiled before the fearful storm.
            Again reforming and strengthening the lines, the shout of the charge was raised and on
            they came the third time with determined purpose to break the line. Nearer and nearer
            they come with shout upon shout, their lines at first closed up and unwavering, but the
            Union troops answered the yells with shouts of defiance, and once more broke forth the
            rain of lead and iron like a deluge; great breaches were torn in their lines, and
            officers and men went down before the pitiless storm. The men of Baird crowded behind
            their log breastworks until there was space for not another man, and they who could not
            find places loaded the guns and passed them to the men in the front line. It seemed one
            continuous stream of fire, one unbroken roar and rattle of artillery and musketry.
          Thus it raged and stormed as if all the furies were turned loose. This charge, as the
            other two, failed and the remnant of the lines of Breckenridge fell back into their
            former position, while the Union line around the Kelly field still held its ground.
            While these charges of Breckenridge had failed to break our lines, and although their
            loss in officers and men had been most fearful, yet the charges had covered another
            purpose that was evidently had in contemplation to be consummated with the breaking of
            our lines, and that was to sweep around our extreme left and get onto the LaFayette
            road. So although they failed to break the line immediately in their front, their lines
            were long enough to sweep far beyond our extreme left, and a part of Helms' and all of
            Stovall's Confederate brigades fell upon General John Beatty's brigade and doubled him
            back and swept across the LaFayette road at the McDaniel house. At the McDaniel house
            and just north of it were the Forty-second and Eighty-eighth  Indiana, and these two regiments withstood the storm till they were
            absolutely crowded off the field west of the LaFayette road, when the Forty-second
            Indiana and the left wing of the Eighty-eighth Indiana which were taken by General
            Negley to McFarland's Gap, while the right wing of the Eighty-eighth Indiana found their
            way, following the sound of the guns, to Harker's Hill and from there to Snodgrass Hill.
            Thus after so long a struggle, by dint of superior numbers General Bragg got possession
            of the LaFayette road, but it availed him naught. His troops were too broken and
            shattered to follow up the advantage thus gained, and for the remainder of the day lay
            about the Kelly field and dared not make another charge, and did not venture to move his
            columns to the left to press a column toward Chattanooga. The prize for which he had
            fought on the Union left and for which thousands of lives had been given was now "dead
            sea fruit."
          Turning again to Snodgrass Hill may be seen the last desperate and unsuccessful attack
            of that portion of the Confederate army that was so renowned for its fighting qualities.
            Longstreet had been beaten back in his first assault on Snodgrass Hill. He had had
            almost a triumphal march, until he and his troops struck this hill, and there instead of
            finding a broken and demoralized body of troops he found a wall of human adamant. He
            determined about 5 p. m. to make another desperate effort to capture or destroy this
            body of soldiers, for they had proved themselves such. It is needless
            to attempt to describe this last fierce charge. The results are given and the reader can
            judge by its slaughter, and the experienced soldier will know full well of its terrible
            and horrible nature. The rebel troops came on in their charge until they had almost
            reached the summit, but on the sides of that hill and at its foot one brigade that
            entered upon the charge with 2,003 men, lost 698 killed and wounded. Another brigade out
            of 852 men, lost 303. Another brigade lost 504, one rebel regiment out of 239 men, lost
            169. These figures form only a part of the loss that was sustained. After this charge,
            it then being after  dark, there was no general charge but
            the enemy pushed up under cover of darkness near to the brow of the hill.
          At 5:30 p. m. the troops in the Kelly field were withdrawn and were ordered to
            McFarland's Gap, enroute to Chattanooga. Our troops on Snodgrass Hill held their
            position until after 8 p. m., when the firing having ceased along the entire line,
            General Thomas withdrew from the field and rejoined the portion of the army that had
            started for Chattanooga. Thus closed a battle that has not its parallel in modern
            warfare when the number of men engaged on both sides and the duration of the engagement
            are considered. We have said that our troops were withdrawn from Snodgrass Hill about 8
            p. m. This is true as to all of the troops, excepting the Eighty-eighth Indiana remained
            at Snodgrass Hill until after daylight on Monday morning, September 21, when they
            marched to McFarland's Gap, and then to Rossville and joined the left wing of the
            regiment and their brigade, and went into position on Missonary Ridge, and on Monday
            night were moved to Chattanooga. Captain W. M. Thompson, of this regiment, says that
            when the Eighty-eighth Indiana left Snodgrass Hill on Monday morning there was not an
            armed Confederate in sight on the field.
          In the battle of Chickamauga Rosecrans in effective force had almost 55,000 men in all
            branches of the service. The force which General Bragg had at his command as shown by
            the best and most reliable Confederate reports was 81,219. The battle was fought on
            ground of General Bragg's own choosing. In so far as numbers were concerned, if the
            disparity in numbers counts for aught, it would seem as if Rosecrans was so greatly
            outnumbered that it would have been absolutely suicidal to have attempted to withstand a
            force so greatly superior. It should also be taken into consideration that General Bragg
            had with him the very best fighters of the entire Confederate army. With all of these
            advantages in favor of General Bragg: first, selection of the field; second, superiority
            in numbers; third, the flower of the Confederate army; yet with all this for three days,
            for we should include September 18, General Rosecrans' army withstood the fiercest assaults that could possibly be made upon troops.
            From the time the battle opened until its close it was terrific in the extreme. Men on
            both sides fought with desperation as is shown by the casualties. The losses of the
            Union army at Chickamauga on September 19th and 20th were 16,179. The loss of the
            Confederates on the same days was 17,804, a total by the two armies of 33,983. The per
            cent of loss in many of the divisions was far higher than that of any other battle of
            modern times. Longstreet's command lost 44 per cent, and the greater portion of their
            loss was on Sunday afternoon at Snodgrass Hill. Steadman's division in the charges and
            countercharges at Snodgrass Hill lost 49 per cent, in killed and wounded. Brannan lost
            38 per cent, and take the whole of Rosecrans' army in this battle the average loss is
            almost 33 per cent. General Boynton, the historian for the "Chickamauga National
            Military Park," has carefully compiled the per centage of losses at Chickamauga, and he
            reports the loss of Confederates as follows: Bushrod Johnson's division at 44 per cent,
            Anderson's brigade of Hindman's division at 30 per cent, Bate's brigade of Stewart's
            division 52 per cent; Preston's division 33 per cent and Gracie's brigade at 35 per
            cent, and the losses by both of these two last were all in only a little more than an
            hour's time at Snodgrass Hill. Over on the left Cheatham's division ranged from 35 to 50
            per cent in the brigades. The loss in Breckenridge's division was 33 per cent.
            Cleburne's loss was 43 per cent. No such charges were made during the war of 1861-1865
            as were made by the Confederate forces at Chickamauga. The celebrated charges in other
            battles of the war consisted of but one charge each, but in the battle of Chickamauga
            they were repeated over and over by the Confederates, not by the same troops each time
            but by fresh troops brought into them with all of the strength and force of fresh
            soldiers. If the charges were made with courage and daring, the defense was even more
            heroic, for it required the highest type of bravery to resist the oncoming charge of
            such men as made the assaults at Chickamauga. The same troops that made the charges at
            Chickamauga could not stand before the charge at
            Missionary Ridge made by the same troops that successfully met and repulsed the charges
            at Chickamauga.
          Of the fighting qualities of both armies General Hindman of the Confederate army has
            said: "I have never known Federal troops to fight so well. It is
                just to say, also, that I never saw Confederate soldiers fight better."
          
          Of one of the assaults made by the troops of Longstreet, and which was repulsed on
            Snodgrass Hill, General Kershaw said: "This was one of the
                heaviest attacks of the war on a single line."
          
          General Bragg says in his report of the battle: 
              "The conduct of our troops was excellent throughout the entire contest. * * Our loss was in proportion to the prolonged and obstinate
                struggle. Two-fifths of our gallant troops had fallen, and the number of general and
                staff officers stricken down will best show how these troops were led."
            
          Again he says: "Our troops were led with the greatest gallantry
                and exhibited great coolness, bravery and heroic devotion. In no instance did they
                fail when called on to rally and return the charge. But though invariably driving
                the enemy with slaughter at the points assailed, they were in turn compelled to
                yield."
            
          Further he gives as a reason for not pursuing the Army of the Cumberland, the
            following: "Any immediate pursuit by our infantry and artillery
                would have been fruitless, as it was not deemed practicable with our weak and
                exhausted force to assail the enemy—now more than double our numbers, behind
                entrenchments. Though we had defeated him and driven him from the field with heavy
                loss in men, arms and artillery, it had only been done by heavy sacrifices, in
                repeated, persistent, and most gallant charges."
          
          General Bragg seems to have estimated the fighting qualities of the Army of the
            Cumberland as its true worth and strength, and it is doubtless this quality which makes
            him say that the Union army was "more than double our numbers."
          General D. H. Hill in his report of the assaults made on the extreme left of the Union
            line on Sunday morning says: "The whole corps had failed in its
                attack; Breckenridge had been compelled to fall back a short distance, and Cleburne
                still further after a heavy repulse."
          
          General Bushrod A. Johnson in his report refers to the 
            conduct of General Granger's corps that reinforced Thomas at Snodgrass Hill: "Our line pressed determinedly forward for some time, keeping up
                an incessant volley with small arms. But the enemy now evidently received
                reinforcements of fresh troops, which advanced with a shout that was heard along our
                lines, and we were driven back to our guns. It was subsequently ascertained from
                prisoners captured that the reinforcements were a part of General Granger's corps
                which we fought the rest of the day. Deas' brigade and the part of Manigault's next
                to it fell back to the foot of the hill. Anderson's fell back to its first position,
                and these three brigades, save two regiments of Manigault's next
                to Johnson's brigade, did not again enter the fight.
                * * *
                The retreat on this hill was precipitate, and called for all the
                  exertions I could command to prevent many of the troops from abandoning it.
                The officers, however, joined with every energy and zeal in the effort to stay the
                retreat, and by appeals, commands, and physical efforts, all save
                a few who presisted in skulking behind trees or lying idly on the ground were
                brought up to our lines in support of the artillery. The enemy were not
                  whipped, and the conflict still raged with varying fortune. Repeatedly our men
                  advanced, and were in turn forced to yield a portion of the ground they had
                  gained."
          The portion here italicised are not italicised by General Johnson, but the words are
            those of the report. This report of General Johnson, who was one of Longstreet's
            division commanders, is worthy of consideration, and speaks most strongly of the bravery
            and fighting qualities of the small band of Union troops that so gallantly held
            Snodgrass Hill on Sunday afternoon "against all comers." It is related, on what
            authority it is not known, that as one of Longstreet's Virginia divisions was moving
            forward it passed through a body of Tennessee troops that had been so severely punished
            in one of the charges that it had been moved to the rear to gather reinforcements, and
            Longstreet's men as they passed through shouted, "Rise up, Tennesseeans, and see the
            Virginians go in." They went in, but soon came back repulsed, broken, and fleeing before
            the terrible storm that met them as they went "in," and as they came flying back the
            Tennessee men cried, "Rise up, Tennesseans, and see the Virginians come
              out."
          The foregoing quotations are sufficient to show the estimation in which the leading
            Confederate officers who were at Chickamauga placed upon the battle. The fact that
            General  Bragg, with all of the superior numbers under his
            command could not, and did not follow the Union army off the field is one of the highest
            tributes that it has been possible to pay to the gallantry and endurance of the Army of
            the Cumberland. To those who may visit the battle field of Chickamauga now years after
            the memorable 19th and 20th of September, 1863, and there fully understanding the
            situation of the ground, the position of the contending armies, and the actual numbers
            engaged on each side, the cause for wonder and astonishment, is not so much that the
            Union army left the field in the hands of the Confederates, but the greatest surprise is
            that any of the Union army survived. General Alexander P. Stewart, who commanded a
            division of Buckner's corps, on Sunday, and witnessing the terrific charges that were
            made on the Kelly field, stood with the writer looking over that memorable scene of
            carnage. The talk was of the tempest of war that had raged on that field thirty-one
            years before, when the question was asked: General Stewart, when you had the Union
            troops so nearly surrounded in this field why did you suffer one of them to live to get
            away to tell of the fight? The General replied: "I have asked that question of myself
            many times, and I can answer it but one way, that is, the good Lord intended it just as
            it was." The answer of General Stewart was made with the utmost reverence, for he is a
            true Christian gentleman. And so after a careful review of the battle of Chickamauga may
            each one say, in the same spirit in which he spoke it, "The good Lord intended it as it
            was."
          The reports made by General Rosecrans and the Generals of his army all bear abundant
            testimony to the fact of the wonderful bravery of the men and officers of the Army of
            the Cumberland at Chickamauga, and it is not necessary that their reports should here be
            reproduced. The reports of those who were of the other army, or enemies then, bear
            testimony not to be controverted.
          What of the troops that held the lines against such great odds, and, in the face of all
            that pointed to complete disaster and overthrow, WON? Yes, the Army
            of the Cumberland 
            won and held all that it was ordered to take—CHATTANOOGA! The battle-field was left for the hands of the
            enemy. Yes, 'tis true. But it was a battle-field to be held, if it was held, without a victory being won. They who claim to have held the field, were
            so broken and shattered that they could not and dared not pursue. Bragg fought the
            battle of Chickamauga, not for Chickamauga, but his purpose, his plan,
            and this battle in which he says he lost 18,000 of the best troops of the South was to
              regain Chattanooga. It was to regain Chattanooga
            that Longstreet was brought from the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia, the army of
            Robert E. Lee. It was for the same purpose that Buckner's corps was brought from East
            Tennessee. It was to wrench the "Key to the South," Chattanooga, from the hand of
            Rosecrans that all the troops of Johnston joined Bragg's army. Rosecrans fought the
            battle of Chickamauga not for Chickamauga, but to hold Chattanooga, and Chattanooga he held. Again the question,
            what of the troops that won? From whence came they?
          The roster of Rosecrans' army answers the question, and every State represented is
            worthy of mention. The troops of each one did all that troops could do. Read the list:
              
              
                STATES.
                INFANTRY  REG'MENTS
                CAVALRY REG'MENTS
                MOUNTED REG'MENTS
                ARTILL'RY BATTER'ES
                TOTAL O'G'NI'T'NS
              
              
                Indiana
                26
                3
                3
                8
                40
              
              
                Illinois
                28
                
                3
                5
                36
              
              
                Kansas
                1
                
                
                
                1
              
              
                Kentucky
                13
                4
                
                
                17
              
              
                Michigan
                4
                2
                
                2
                8
              
              
                Minnesota
                1
                
                
                1
                2
              
              
                Ohio
                42
                3
                
                10
                55
              
              
                Pennsylvania
                3
                2
                
                1
                6
              
              
                Tennessee
                
                2
                
                
                2
              
              
                Wisconsin
                5
                1
                
                3
                9
              
              
                Missouri
                2
                
                
                1
                3
              
              
                U. S. Army (Regulars.)
                4
                1
                
                4
                9
              
              
                Total
                129
                18
                6
                35
                188
              
            
          Against these 188 organizations, the Confederates had 259 organizations. Indiana, as
            appears from the foregoing,  was fully represented in the
            battle of Chickamauga as she was in all of the battles of the war. It is no
            disparagement to the troops of the other States from which came the Union army to say
            that the troops of Indiana did their full share of duty at Chickamauga, and that the
            gallantry of her sons was not surpassed by that of any other State there represented,
            regardless of whether the troops were from the North or the South, Union or Confederate.
            Indiana was the first, with her Seventeenth and Seventy-Second regiments and Eighteenth
            battery, to oppose the crossing of Bragg's troops over the Chickamauga creek on Friday,
            September 18. Indiana troops, the Tenth and Seventy-fourth regiments, were the first
            troops of Rosecrans' army to open the battle on the morning of September 19. In the
            corps of Granger that met the charge of Bushrod R. Johnson, with a counter charge, and
            broke his line and hurled them back was the Eighty-fourth Indiana; the last volley fired
            on Snodgrass Hill was fired by the Ninth Indiana regiment, and the last Union regiment
            to leave the battle-field was the Eighty-eighth regiment, which marched away on Monday
            morning, September 20, from Snodgrass Hill. Indiana's "Roll of Honor" was written on the
            field of Chickamauga, at Reed's Bridge, at Viniard's, at Brotherton's, at Poe's, at
            Kelly's, at McDaniel's, in the Brock field, at Harker's Hill, on Snodgrass Hill, everywhere on Chickamauga, where the battle raged the fiercest, and the
            storm was most deadly. By Chickamauga's muddy waters, in the glades, under the pines, in
            the open fields, on the highlands, and around the fire begirt hills, over three thousand
            of Indiana's sons gave their blood and lives in the defense of the
            Flag and for the preservation of the Republic. Eleven States of the Union and the
            regular army of the United States were represented in the battle of Chickamauga, and
            one-fifth of the loss in killed and wounded in that battle were from Indiana's regiments
            and batteries. The reports on file at the War Department show that during the war of the
            rebellion, from the opening in April, 1861, to the close of the war in 1865, Indiana
            lost 24,000 men. If  this be true, as it doubtless is,
            then Indiana lost at Chickamauga from noon of September 18 to the going down of the sun
            on Snodgrass Hill, on Sunday, September 20, one-eighth of Indiana's entire loss during
            the entire war. What a magnificent record this is for the gallantry of the Indiana
            troops! Their work was well done. They won for Indiana an honorable, a glorious name and
            place for bravery in the galaxy of States, and the men of Indiana for all time to come
            may point with pride to the gallantry and bravery of the Indiana troops at
            Chickamauga.
          What of the withdrawal of the Union army from Chickamauga? By the Confederate reports
            it was said that the army of Rosecrans "was routed," that it went from the field in
            confusion and utterly demoralized. Look at the facts, and let the reader judge. As
            shown, the left of Rosecrans' army was in and about the Kelly field on Sunday and until
            5:30 o'clock in the afternoon. The Confederate army had swept around the extreme left
            and reached the LaFayette road at McDaniel's and held that road so that the Union army
            when it moved off from the Kelly field moved west to McFarland's Gap. The Confederate
            forces about the Kelly field did not follow them as regiment after
            regiment marched out.
          The last of the Union troops to leave the battle-field of Chickamauga were those at
            Snodgrass Hill. The storm that had raged about that hill throughout that entire
            afternoon, had spent its force in the vain attempt to destroy those who had so gallantly
            and heroically made their lodgement there. The tempest had ceased, the guns were all
            hushed, when at 8:30 o'clock these troops moved off the hill, down across the fields and
            to and through McFarland's Gap. What next is seen? When the sun on the morning of the
            21st of September rose, there on the hills of Missionary Ridge from McFarland's Gap and
            Rossville northward were found once more the same men, who under Thomas had held the
            lines on Sunday afternoon. The same men who had hurled defiance into the faces of the
            charging columns of Longstreet with his left wing of Bragg army at the going down of the
            sun, awaited  in line the coming of the same foe when the
            sun again lighted the eastern horizon in another line within easy reach. The remainder
            of Rosecrans' army marched into Chattanooga, established its lines, and awaited the
            coming of the enemy.
          Finally Thomas and his undaunted troops came marching in with banners flying and music
            waking the echoes, and pitched their camp in and about Chattanooga. Once more the Army
            of the Cumberland was united in the city for which the campaign was begun and ended, and
            there waited for the attack to be renewed by General Bragg. The attack was never made.
            The men of the Army of the Cumberland were  never whipped. They moved
            off the field of Chickamauga with their ranks unbroken, and in their new lines were
            ready for the fray. The attack was not again received from the army of
            Bragg, but after two months of seige the same Army of the Cumberland that
              received the attack at Chickamauga, made the attack that swept
            the army of General Bragg in confusion and dismay from Missionary Ridge, and on down
            beyond Chickamauga's battle scarred field, in November, 1863. It was the same army that
            opened the battles about Chattanooga, that "stormed the heights of Missionary Ridge,
            broke through the lines and opened the way for the reinforcements brought by Sherman,
            which had finally been sent to the Army of the Cumberland, so that they might maintain
            their foothold at the north end of Missionary Ridge, and establish their colors on the
            Union left on the memorable 25th day of November, 1863. To the glory of Indiana it may
            said to her sons was the credit given of leading the charge that broke the center on
            Missionary Ridge. To the Eighty-sixth regiment of Indiana, and to her associate
            regiment, the Seventy-ninth Indiana, is due the credit of leading in that wonderful
            charge, a charge which had it been made by the army of any European power would have
            brought medals of honor to every man of the rank and file, and titles and knighting to
            every General in command.
          Thus has been given the part that this, the Eighty-sixth Indiana, bore in one of the
            severest battles of modern warfare,  in many respects the
            severest. The members of the regiment who yet survive may glory in the part they bore on
            that deadly field. The children of all of the members of the regiment, of the members
            living and of those who are dead, will never have cause for feelings other than of
            honest pride that they whose names they bear, were with those who fought at Chickamauga.
            The joy of to-day comes to the survivors in that the war in which they participated has
            passed, and Peace shall ever reign within this land. He who shall visit Chickamauga in
            the future may read in enduring bronze and firmest granite the deeds of valor of the men
            of the North; and the sons of the South, may see the pride and glory of the Nation in
            that now all cause for strife has passed, and that only deeds of bravery are remembered
            where once ran the red tide of battle.
          The roar of the battle on the field of Chickamauga is hushed and in its stead from the
            leafy bowers and beside the quiet stream is to rise for all future time the anthem of
            peace. The men who died on this field did not shed their blood in vain. The cause for
            which they of the Union army fought was triumphant, and Chickamauga was the beginning of
            the end of the years of strife.
        
        
          CHAPTER XVI.  BELEAGUERED IN CHATTANOOGA.
          The Objective Point of the Campaign Held—Arrival of the Eighty-sixth from
            Chickamauga—Entered Upon its Duties to Defend the Town—The Scarcity of
            Supplies—The Sufferings Endured by the Men—Starvation Staring them in the
            Face—Provisions Brought Over the Mountains from
            Bridgeport—Foraging—Consolidation of the Twentieth and Twenty-first
            Corps—The Fourth Corps Formed—General Rosecrans Relieved—General
            Thomas Assumes Command—Arrival of General Grant—The Eleventh and Twelfth
            Corps—Battle of Wauhatchie—The Army of the Tennessee
            Arrives—Preparations for the Approaching Battle—Did General Rosecrans
            Contemplate at Any Time the Evacuation of Chattanooga?
          As shown in the preceding chapter, after the battle of Chickamauga, the Army of the
            Cumberland held the objective  point of the
            campaign—Chattanooga—and was therefore successful and victorious. The
            resolute men under General Rosecrans were determined to hold fast to the prize now in
            their possession. No one questioned the ability of General Rosecrans to hold it against
            a direct assault by any force of the enemy. Here the troops which had formed the right
            wing at Chickamauga formed the center and left wing in Chattanooga, and would have been
            found as firm as their comrades of the left wing were on the memorable "Snodgrass Hill."
            They proved this later.
          The Second brigade of the Third division, Twenty-first army corps, Colonel George F.
            Dick, of the Eighty-sixth, commanding, reached the immediate neighborhood of Chattanooga
            from the battle-field of Chickamauga on the 21st of September, and did guard duty that
            evening. On the 22nd the Eighty-sixth was placed as a reserve for the skirmish line, the
            line itself being formed by the Fifteenth Indiana, the brigade's position being to the
            northeast of the hill where Fort Wood was afterward located, and not far from Citico
            creek. Here the Eighty-sixth constructed a temporary line of breastworks and prepared to
            support the line in case it was attacked. The regiment was at this juncture under the
            command of Captain Aaron Frazee, of Company A, Lieutenant Colonel J. C. Dick having been
            wounded in the battle of Chickamauga. There was more or less skirmishing and some
            artillery firing as the enemy approached the town. At dusk a portion of the Eighty-sixth
            was placed upon the line. The men were instructed to keep the closest watch upon the
            enemy. It was not then known even by those high in command how badly the different
            organizations had been broken up at Chickamauga by their repeated desperate attempts to
            win. About 9 o'clock quite a lively fire sprang up on the Eighty-sixth's part of the
            line, and on the brigade line immediately to its right, on account of a supposed attempt
            of the enemy to steal up by stealth. The nervous tension was great, and the men did not
            wait to see a rebel approaching to shoot, but fired. The line held its ground firmly and
            the firing soon died away. The enemy fired a few return shots,  but there was really no evidence of an attempt to advance. The fact was
            Bragg, as well as his men, had about all the fighting they cared to enjoy for some time,
            and were in no hurry to rush upon their old antagonists.
          The first detail of the Eighty-sixth placed upon the line as skirmishers remained from
            dusk on the 22nd until 3 a. m. on the 23rd, a long and very trying vigil. The day had
            been warm, and the approaching enemy had made the situation one of great danger. The
            night was frosty, making a change of many degrees from the heat of the day. The men lay
            upon the ground to escape the enemy's fire and felt the full force of the frosty
            atmosphere. The chilly ground rapidly conducted the heat from their thinly clad bodies
            and the frosty air chilled them to the bone. It was a night long to be remembered. Those
            upon the line were relieved at 3 a. m. and returned to the reserve, but little more
            comfort was to be found there as no fire was permitted, and the men had but few
            blankets. At 9 a. m. they returned to the line and had a brisk little brush with the
            enemy as he pushed his lines cautiously up. The Eighty-sixth maintained its ground and
            stood the enemy off by a sharp and well directed fire. He returned the fire in a sullen,
            determined manner, as though out of humor. He did not push up with that vim, that
            aggressive dashing manner so characteristic when confident of winning. So the contest
            was kept up by the Eighty-sixth until 3 o'clock p. m. on the 23rd, when it was relieved
            and marched back inside the intrenched lines which were rapidly assuming formidable
            shape.
          The town is situated in a bend of the Tennessee river which here winds its way through
            the mountains. Coming from the north until within a mile, the river changes its course
            and flows nearly west, curving slightly northward as it passes the town. Then the curve
            increases and it flows a little east of south with a high point—Cameron
            Hill—between it and the town. It continues this direction for probably two miles
            and then curves to the southwest for the distance of a half mile and strikes the rocky
            base of the mighty Lookout, and again changes for another half mile, this time to the
            northwest,  and then again nearly due north until opposite
            the town again turns in a northwest direction and divides into two branches to encompass
            Williams' Island. Opposite Lookout Mountain its curves form Moccasin Point. At the bend
            east of the town Citico creek empties its waters from the base of Missionary Ridge. At a
            point nearly due north of the palisades on Lookout, Chattanooga creek empties its waters
            from the south part of Chattanooga Valley. Nearly a half mile west of the mouth of
            Citico creek is the head of an island known as Chattanooga island. A little more than a
            half mile above the mouth of Chattanooga creek is another small island. Starting from a
            point opposite the lower third of the lower island the. main intrenchments followed a
            line, curving outward slightly, to a point on the bank of the river a little east of the
            head of Chattanooga island. The Eighty-sixth was assigned a camping place on this line a
            little north of the East Tennessee and Virginia railroad some three or four hundred
            yards perhaps from the river, on a slight elevation where the government cemetery was
            first placed.
          Now began the siege of the Army of the Cumberland cooped up in Chattanooga by the
            Confederate forces under General Bragg. The intrenchments were strengthened day by day,
            forts were constructed and every preparation made to hold the town. To complete all
            these required great labor, and with the heavy picket duty, the men were kept constantly
            engaged. The line of the Union pickets covering the front of the works extended from the
            mouth of Citico creek on the left to the mouth of Chattanooga creek on the right. Within
            the main line of intrenchments, high points of ground were fortified. About two hundred
            yards to the right of the camp of the Eighty-sixth and a little more advanced was
            constructed a strong fort known in history as Fort Wood, named in honor of Brigadier
            General T. J. Wood.
          Each morning the troops were called before daylight and "stood to arms" in the
            trenches. On account of some picket firing the troops, on the left at least, were called
            into the trenches twice during the night of the 24th, and were called  up for the day on the morning of the 25th at 4 o'clock. On
            the following day the cause of the night's skirmishing was learned. During the day of
            the 24th the skirmish line to the right had been advanced. When night came on and
            shielded the enemy from the fire of the Union batteries he advanced in some force and
            drove the Union troops back upon their old lines. However, on the morning of the 25th,
            the artillery opened a red-hot fire upon the enemy's outposts. The Union skirmishers
            were ordered forward and speedily drove him back, and occupied their line of the
            previous evening, which was ever afterwards maintained. During the 25th there was much
            heavy cannonading around the lines, accompanied by lively skirmishing. The enemy had not
            yet settled into lines satisfactory, which very naturally caused some irritation.
          All through the first month of the seige the troops were called out frequently during
            the night into the trenches to be ready to repel the threatened attacks. These calls at
            night with heavy skirmish duties, fatigue duty, short rations, thinly clad, and illy
            supplied with blankets for the cold frosty nights, made the service at this time
            anything but play. The army had stored its winter wearing apparel and blankets, and was
            therefore poorly prepared to endure bad weather. Rations daily grew more scarce and the
            mules grew weaker, thousands dying from overwork and starvation. The long trips over the
            rough mountain roads compelled them to perform extraordinary labors. The army mule
            should be voted a badge of honor for services rendered.
          Day by day the men came to understand the situation and to see with a clearer vision
            the difficulties of their environment. In front was a superior force of an inveterate
            enemy commanded by a skillful General. In rear a large river, and beyond were rugged
            mountains and a stretch of country over which all supplies must be hauled a distance of
            sixty miles. Could the end be seen? It looked black, though there were few but were
            confident that in the final round up the Union army would come off victorious.
          On the rebel skirmish line at the east side of a small field, across which the Second
            brigade skirmish line extended, was  a log cabin, in which
            there was daily posted a rebel sharp-shooter that made good use of his opportunities. A
            picket detail was his special delight, and many a picket marching out to duty was
            disabled by his unerring rifle. And a soldier going outside of the intrenchments for any
            purpose was a fair mark. Next to a picket detail he seemed to delight in having a crack
            at soldiers going out for wood. But wood was necessary, even if it took blood. At length
            the timber was all cleared away, much of it having been cut and carried to camp on the
            boys' backs after night. The sharp-shooter wounded a number of the Eighty-sixth when
            going out to the skirmish line. To fire at the cabin was useless, and he was left
            undisturbed. Once or twice a gun from Fort Wood was turned upon the cabin and a few
            shots would quiet him for a time, but he soon resumed his vocation. On the 30th of
            September, some members of the Eighty-sixth were on duty on the skirmish line. Two or
            three of them, tired of sharp-shooting, crept out along the bank of Citico creek to a
            concealed place and gave him a few shots that annoyed him. He at once stopped shooting
            and began swearing. For a time now it was a war of words instead of bullets, and it was
            difficult to decide which side was the more fluent and vicious. The Eighty-sixth boys
            returned to the reserve and the heathen rebel rested from his labors. They came off the
            line at 3 a. m., returned to the reserve and tried to sleep. They had just got soundly
            asleep when a heavy shower came up suddenly, and when they awoke they were in water up
            to their necks—lying down, of course. This little incident gives one some idea of
            the trials of a soldier's life. It was useless of course to try to sleep on the ground
            in such a deluge of rain.
          On the night of October 1 it continued to rain, ' accompanied by a wind storm, blowing
            down tents and scattering numerous necessary articles in various directions. Many tents
            blew down a second time. Add this to all other things which the men endured at
            Chattanooga—hunger, fatigue, dangers and trying vigils—proved to be an
            exhausting strain upon the whole physical system. Many finally  broke down who seemingly bore it fairly well at the time. Is it to be
            wondered that the health of so many soldiers was injured while in the service? It is
            marvelous that so many endured it and still live.
          On October 2 a member of Company D was shot through the arm by the cabin sharpshooter
            as he was going out on skirmish line. It was a severe and painful wound, although not
            necessarily dangerous. On this day, too, General Rosecrans issued an order to the Army
            of the Cumberland, of which the following is an extract: "Army
                of the Cumberland: You have made a grand and successful campaign; you have driven
                the rebels from Middle Tennessee. You crossed a great mountain range, placed
                yourselves on the banks of a broad river, crossed it in the face of a powerful
                opposing army, and crossed two great mountain ranges at the only practicable passes,
                some. forty miles between extremes. You concentrated in the face of superior
                numbers; fought the combined armies of Bragg, which you drove from Shelbyville to
                Tullahoma, of Johnston's army from Mississippi, and the tried veterans of
                Longstreet's corps, and for two days held them at bay, giving them blow for blow
                with heavy interest. * * * * You have accomplished the great
                work of the campaign; you hold the key of East Tennessee, of North Georgia, and of
                the enemy's mines of coal and nitre."
          
          This is only an extract but it relates the fact that the Army of the Cumberland in the
            late contest had much more than Bragg's army with which to contend. In a letter written
            by General Halleck dated at Washington, D. C., October 20, 1863, to General Grant, that
            officer says:
              
                
                  "It is now ascertained that the greater part of the prisoners parolled by you
                    at Vicksburg, and Banks at Port Hudson, were illegally and improperly declared
                    exchanged, and forced into the ranks to swell the rebel numbers at
                    Chickamauga."
                
              
            
          In short, General Grant had made a very serious mistake in paroling Pemberton's army
            and the Army of the Cumberland and its great leader had to suffer for Grant's error.
          On October 3, Dr. A. M. Walton, Assistant Surgeon of the Eighty-sixth was sent into
            Chattanooga from Chickamauga, having been severely wounded in both feet by the
            accidental discharge of a gun. When our forces fell back from that terrible field, Dr.
            Walton courageously and nobly  volunteered to remain with
            the wounded and minister to their wants. Nobly did he fulfill the task he had assigned
            himself, but alas! he too was soon numbered with the suffering patriots and required the
            attentions of a brother surgeon.
          The siege dragged on. To relate one-half the incidents of camp and skirmish line would
            be impossible. To say the least the condition of affairs was pressing and very
            interesting. At length the rebel cavalry, under their great leader, Wheeler, made things
            lively in the rear. He captured a large supply train in the Sequatchie Valley and almost
            destroyed it. The enemy patrolled the river bank for miles below Lookout, down to and
            around "the Suck," a bend of the river around the north end of Raccoon mountain, between
            that mountain on the south and Walden's Ridge on the north. The best road left open to
            Rosecrans' trains wound around along the north bank of the river, being cut into the
            terminal cliffs of Walden's Ridge as they jutted up close to the bank of the river. The
            enemy's pickets patrolling the river bank acted as sharpshooters at "the Suck" where the
            trains were forced near them and killed many mules, drivers, and train guards. They
            maintained constant watch and fire, and rendered the road so dangerous that it had to be
            abandoned, the trains going over. Walden's Ridge further north. This necessitated many
            more miles of travel, and far more difficult mountain roads to be used, to convey the
            hard tack and bacon to the famishing soldiers in the beleaguered town. The longer trips
            and more difficult roads required greater time, when time was an element of much
            importance. The mules on account of their extraordinary exertion and lack of forage were
            daily growing more feeble and less able to work. While they were growing weaker and
            fewer in number, for they died and were killed by the hundreds, their labors ] were
            growing greater and more urgent. The bad weather set in and added deep mud to the rough
            and execrable mountain roads. Daily, rations grew scarcer, until, as the boys jocosely
            remarked, it was only river water with a very faint suspicion of coffee about it. It
            looked gloomy indeed—disheartening in the extreme—but General Rosecrans with
            great courage  fought the elements and the difficulties of
            his environment with the same fortitude that he contended with the rebel forces, and the
            iron-hearted Army of the Cumberland was as firm as the palisades of the lofty Lookout,
            and cheered their commander lustily whenever he rode along the lines. Some times
            unlooked for misfortunes came. After a heavy fall of rain the enemy up the river sent
            down rafts at night to break the pontoon bridges at the town. They succeeded in this a
            number of times until at length a watch was placed on the head of Chattanooga Island,
            and the river was patrolled. The logs were just what General Rosecrans and his Chief
            Engineer, General W. F. Smith, wanted to make lumber, with which to build more
            bridges.
          On October 3 one day's rations of hard tack were drawn, and on the night of the 4th the
            enemy succeeded in breaking the pontoon bridge with a raft of logs which interfered with
            the much needed supplies. On the 5th details from the Eighty-sixth Indiana and the
            Fifty-ninth Ohio were made for the skirmish line for the brigade. Captain C. P. Rodman,
            of the Eighty-sixth, was the officer of the day.
          About 10 o'clock a. m. the enemy opened with his artillery all around the lines and
            made it quite uncomfortable. The reserves of the First and Second brigades received a
            full share of the enemy's attention. The fire was kept up the entire day. It is a day
            embalmed in the memory of hundreds, rendered thus memorable by the continued booming of
            batteries all day long.
          On the afternoon of the 7th the Eighty-sixth received orders to be ready to start on
            foraging duty at a moment's notice. Lieutenant Colonel J. C. Dick, then in command of
            the regiment, sent word that his command could not go on account of not having any
            rations. The information was returned that rations would be provided. The following
            morning at 9 o'clock the Eighty-sixth was ordered to "fall in" and it marched through
            town and across the river where rations were issued. The guards of the trains were
            veterans from the ranks of the besieged army. They knew the situation. They did not see
            anything wrong in famishing men  supplying themselves. The
            expedition proved to be foraging duty beyond a doubt; for if ever a regiment of Hoosiers
            had the stomachs to forage it was on coming out of Chattanooga after what appeared to be
            a three weeks' fast. The purpose of the expedition was to secure corn and corn-fodder as
            forage for the mules and horses, but it also gave the Eighty-sixth, acting as guards, an
            excellent opportunity to turn the occasion to good account for themselves. The duties of
            the trip were many and various, such as loading wagons, catching chickens, ducks and
            pigs, standing guard and doing picket duty when the place of bivouac was reached at
            night. On the afternoon of the 9th, having reached a point some thirty or forty miles
            northeast of Chattanooga about thirty of the wagons were loaded with forage. Besides
            securing forage for the animals, the boys caught the chickens, geese and turkeys of the
            mountaineers, killed their hogs, cattle and sheep, went into the houses and ate the
            biscuits on the table, carried off their bee-hives, and destroyed quite as much in
            getting what they may have needed as they themselves consumed. Looking back at this time
            upon this conduct one cannot but pronounce it a brutal destruction and waste. The
            passions of the soldiers had been aroused to their highest pitch by their suffering
            while besieged in Chattanooga, and they stopped not to think of the suffering they might
            inflict on innocent non-combatants. The foraging was continued during a part of the 10th
            when the train and guards started on their return trip and reached camp between 3 and 4
            o'clock in the afternoon on the 11th.
          Arriving in camp, the regiment learned of General Rosecrans' order consolidating the
            Twentieth and Twenty-first corps into one corps, and designating it the Fourth army
            corps, to be commanded by Major General Gordon Granger. This order was issued on the 9th
            of October, and was in compliance with the President Lincoln's order which had been
            promulgated September 28. The actual change of the troops, however, did not take place
            until October 20. The organization was to be as follows: 
            
              ORGANIZATION OF FOURTH CORPS.
              Major General Gordon Granger, Commanding.
              FIRST DIVISION.
                 Major General David S. Stanley, Commanding.
              First Brigade.
                 Brigadier Charles Cruft, Commanding.
              Second Brigade.
                 Brigadier General W. C. Whittaker, Commanding.
              Third Brigade.
                 Colonel William Grose, Commanding.
              SECOND DIVISION.  Major General
                Philip H. Sheridan, Commanding
              First Brigade.
                 Brigadier General J. B. Steadman, Commanding.
              Second Brigade.
                 Brigadier General George D. Wagner, Commanding.
              Third Brigade.
                 Colonel Charles G. Harker, Commanding.
              THIRD DIVISION.  Brigadier General
                Thomas J. Wood, Commanding.
              First Brigade.
                 Brigadier General August Willich Commanding.
              Second Brigade.
                 Brigadier General William B. Hazen, Commanding.
              Third Brigade.
                 Brigadier General Samuel Beatty, Commanding.
              Seventy-ninth Indiana.
              Eighty-sixth Indiana.
              Ninth Kentucky.
              Seventeenth Kentucky.
              Thirteenth Ohio.
              Nineteenth Ohio.
              Fifty-ninth Ohio.
              Forty-fourth Indiana.
            
          This brigade, according to "Victor's History of the Rebellion," came to be known as
            "Beatty's Fighting Brigade."
          The Forty-fourth Indiana was, however, soon after this detached to do post duty in
            Chattanooga. It took no part in the battle of Missionary Ridge, and was never again with
            the brigade. Doubtless this organization was a stronger one than to have the troops
            divided up in two corps and so many divisions and brigades. It gave its corps line of
            battle more cohesion, more solidity and weight, and was therefore safely welded into one
            compact organization to meet the hard knocks  it was so
            soon to endure, yet all were loth to see the old corps dispersed, as the mist of the
            morning, into nothingness. But the men soon forgot their regret for the old in their
            pride for the new.
          The Eighty-sixth was glad indeed to welcome its Colonel back to his legitimate command
            and was proud to obey his every order with soldierly promptness. The division and
            brigade commanders were known to be able, soldierly leaders. General Wood had drawn
            condemnation upon himself by his conduct at Chickamauga, but the error, if error it was,
            was not on account of his lack of courage or want of ability. General Beatty was brave
            to a fault and an able brigade commander, but was generally credited with being
            overhasty in volunteering his brigade for dangerous duties.
          Rations were drawn on the 12th what purported to be for three days. On the 13th the men
            were eating parched corn, so scant was the supply drawn the day before. On the 13th a
            heavy detail from the Eighty-sixth worked on the entrenchments in a drenching rain
            during the forenoon which was most disagreeable as it was quite cold. The rain continued
            during the afternoon and the following night. Again on the 14th parched corn did duty as
            bread. The rain continued to fall in heavy showers during the night of the 14th and the
            day of the 15th. With such heavy continued rains what must have been the condition of
            the mountain roads over which long trains of army wagons continued to pass and re-pass
            between Bridgeport and Chattonooga in their superhuman efforts to supply an army of
            45,000 men with subsistence and the munitions of war? One may imagine, but can a person
            who never saw roads thus traveled comprehend their condition? One historian, W. O.
            Blake, author of the "Great American Rebellion," speaking of the desperate condition of
            the beleagued town and army says: "All supplies for the army at Chattanooga had to be
            hauled over one line of railroad to Bridgeport, and from there by pack mules to
            Chattanooga." This statement is liable to create an erroneous impression as it gives one
            the idea that rations and supplies were conveyed only by pack mules and that no  supplies were hauled over the mountains. Doubtless
            Rosecrans made use of pack mules as he used every means in his power, but there was
            scarcely a day when there was not a train on the way going from, or coming to,
            Chattanooga, with or for supplies. The fact that he used pack mules shows his invincible
            resolution to hold on to the place to the last. He made a glorious fight and few could
            have done better. But with all of the exertion made to keep the army supplied, the
            amount of rations received gradually grew less. So many mules had been killed by the
            rebel sharp-shooters, so many had died of starvation and over-work, and now the roads
            were cut up so badly it seemed that fate was against the Army of the Cumberland.
            Appearances indicated that they must, if help did not come soon, yield the town or
            starve. But they held on.
          On the evening of the 19th of October, General Rosecrans received by telegram an order
            relieving him of the command of the Army of the Cumberland, and transferring it to
            General Thomas. On the 20th, General Thomas issued General Order, No. 243, assuming
            command. The following extract formed one paragraph of these orders: "In assuming the control of this army, so long and so ably
                commanded by Major General Rosecrans, the undersigned confidently relies upon the
                hearty co-operation of every officer and soldier of the Army of the Cumberland, to
                enable him to perform the arduous duties devolved upon him."
          General Grant reached Chattanooga on the 23d and assumed command in person, and to read
            his "Memoirs" one would think there was no scarcity of rations, feed, or other necessary
            supplies a few days after his arrival. He says: "In five days from my arrival in
            Chattanooga the way was open to Bridgeport, and, with aid of steamers and Hooker's
            teams, in a week the troops were receiving full rations." But this statement is not
            exactly in harmony with the facts. The greatest suffering of the Eighty-sixth on account
            of scant rations while in Chattanooga occurred from the 20th of October to the 9th of
            November. A member of the regiment who kept a dairy has this record for the 20th: "The
            boys are all out of rations and swearing about starving." 
            In the record for the 25th it is found that he was on picket and this note is made: "I
            only had one cracker for dinner." On the 26th he wrote: "We ate our last cracker for
            dinner. We drew about a tinful, supposed to be a pint, of flour for a day's rations of
            bread-stuff. The boys are all grumbling about the scarcity of rations. This is a little
            the shortest rations we have yet drawn." In the record for the 27th he made this note:
            "We had to do without any dinner as we could not get anything to eat. The boys are
            furious about the rations, as most of them have had nothing to eat since breakfast, all
            day. Toward evening we drew a little beef." After this record was made, somewhat later
            in the evening, other rations came, and this man's journal says: "We received three
            crackers and one pound of flour as a ration for two men for one day. We also drew a few
            grains of coffee." On the 1st of November the regiment was again almost destitute of
            rations, most of the men doing without any dinner. Late in the evening one-half of a
            cracker was issued to two men. On November 2 this is the record: "Brother and I ate a
            half a cracker and a little bacon for breakfast. The boys are grumbling a good deal
            to-day about rations. We drew a little beef this forenoon and had that for dinner. Late
            in the evening we drew, what purported to be, one day's rations of hard tack to do us
            four meals." On On November 5: "We drew six small crackers to the man to do one day and
            a half." These are facts—a correct account of the actual rations drawn, noted at
            the time, by the members of the Eighty-sixth. Nor is it believed that the Eighty-sixth
            suffered for the want of rations more than other regiments of the Army of the
            Cumberland. The assertion is here made that no regiment within the lines of the
            beleaguered town at any time during the siege ever received full rations of even three
            articles of the ration list. Those who bore the hardships, served in the trenches, and
            were exposed to the dangers of the siege, half-starved, were as determined to hold the
            place as was General Grant.
          Of the conduct of the men much might be said to show how some suffered much more than
            others. Some were improvident,  even reckless, in regard
            to their rations. Some of these improvident soldiers have been known to eat at one meal
            all the hard tack that was issued to do three days, and depend upon the charity of
            comrades for the rest of the time. Others naturally abstemious and frugal divided the
            rations received so as to have a little left when the time expired, only ate so much set
            apart for a meal. But even the latter class would occasionally exhaust their carefully
            hoarded supply.
          On October 20, the troops which had been changed from one command to another, moved
            their camps to their respective new commands. Troops were changing and moving in all
            directions, especially the troops composing the old Twentieth and Twenty-first army
            corps. Luckily for the Eighty-sixth it did not have to move.
          From this time until the battle of Wauhatchie daily there was some skirmish firing,
            some sharpshooting from the cabin front, and more or less artillery firing, but nothing
            of a decided or very destructive nature. Occasionally the guns on Lookout would drop a
            few shells into the town or camps, but more frequently they went screaming on over the
            river to the north.
          During the 27th, batteries on Moccasin Point maintained a brisk fire on Lookout during
            most of the day, and the rebel gunners replied with spirit. The cannonading was
            continued even more fiercely on the 28th than on the preceding day. About midnight it
            again broke out fiercely and aroused the camp. The men turned out to learn where the
            battle raged. There was no doubt of there being a musketry battle also, for it could be
            plainly heard. It was a rapid, continuous crackling fire as when lines of battle were
            engaged. The rebel guns from Lookout boomed with unwonted vigor and rapidity. It was
            undoubtedly a battle of considerable magnitude and hotly waged. Subsequently it was
            learned that the rebels had attacked the troops under Hooker, Geary's division of the
            Twelfth corps, and the Eleventh corps, commanded by Howard. There were really two
            battles fought on this night, and in both the Union troops were victorious. Longstreet's
            troops were the attacking forces on the part of the 
            rebels. It is known in history as the battle of Wauhatchie. The rebels were beaten at
            all points and Hooker's forces gained some advantage in ground during the battle.
          About the 1st of November there was a change made in the manner of sending out pickets.
            Heretofore it had been by details. Now it was changed to regiments. On the morning of
            the 5th, at 5 o'clock, the Eighty-sixth went on picket immediately in its front. There
            was nothing of especial interest transpired on the skirmish line, but there was a great
            deal of especially active cannonading around the lines. On this day, too, the pontoon
            bridge was broken so the men were deprived of their much needed rations. The regiment
            returned to camp from the skirmish line at 5 o'clock a. m. on the 3d. During the night
            of the 2d the regiment was ordered into the trenches and kept there a long time, an
            attack being expected. The artillery maintained an occasional fire throughout the
            night.
          About the 6th or 7th it was reported in camp that General Beatty, the brigade
            commander, had offered to Colonel Dick the position of Provost Marshal of Chattanooga,
            with the Eighty-sixth as provost guards. Rather a nice place in comparison with field
            duties; but the Colonel declined with thanks, preferring to keep the regiment in the
            front where the more arduous and dangerous duties were to be performed. The position was
            eventually given to the Forty-fourth Indiana, Lieutenant Colonel Simeon C. Aldrich
            commanding. The Forty-fourth was never afterwards with the brigade.
          On the 8th the regiment was again on duty on the picket line. The wind blew a stiff
            breeze and it was quite cold, making it very disagreeable. Rations were brought out to
            the reserve station and distributed. Many of the boys were so hungry that they ate the
            whole day's rations for supper. Drew rations on the 9th and received a more liberal
            allowance than at any time since the siege began. By this time everything within the
            picket line that could be used for fuel had been consumed, even to the stumps. All were
            cleaned up to the sentinels on the lines. On the 11th Colonel Dick had men begin to
            build a barge with which to bring wood  across the river.
            By the 13th it was completed and put to use. On the 15th the regiment was again on
            picket and the sentinel posts were within eighty or one hundred yards of the sentinels
            to the enemy's line, but they were peaceably inclined. Longstreet had now gone to attack
            General Burnside at Knoxville, and even the privates knew their weakness and had no
            desire to stir up a hornet's nest prematurely. It would come soon enough. The regiment
            returned to camp on the morning of the 16th and found that some soulless wretch had
            stolen its wood. A heavy detail was made from the regiment that day for fatigue duty on
            Fort Beatty.
          Colonel Dick since his return to the regiment had been having dress parade each evening
            when the weather was suitable. On the 18th there was quite a lively time on the skirmish
            line for half or three-quarters of an hour. The Union line was advanced. That of course
            brought on the fray. The enemy seemed very much disinclined to allow it the privilege of
            advancing, but after a hot bout he appeared reconciled. A number of prisoners were
            captured from the enemy in the skirmish. Of course there was the daily cannonading and
            skirmishing, but little attention was paid any more to the ordinary firing. On the 19th
            the Eighty-sixth was paid off, the men receiving four months' wages.
          On the 20th the regiment was ordered into ranks by companies and marched out of camp to
            fire the loads out of the guns and put them in good order. Orders were received to be
            ready to move the following morning with two days' cooking rations, exclusive of
            breakfast, and forty rounds of ammunition in cartridge boxes and sixty rounds in pocket.
            Such marching orders with an enemy in arms length meant fight. An order was also
            promulgated consolidating, for the present, regiments that had been greatly decimated in
            numbers, presumably to give the lines more cohesion and weight in an attack. The
            Seventy-ninth Indiana and the Eighty-sixth were consolidated under this order. The
            advance was to be made on the morning of the 21st, Saturday. But it rained the whole
            night of the 20th, and Sherman was not ready, consequently the proposed movement was
            postponed. On the  evening of the 21st the Eighty-sixth
            received orders to be ready for picket at 5:30 the next morning, Sunday.
          On the 22d the regiment was on the picket-line promptly at the appointed time.
            Everything was reasonably quiet until about 9 o'clock a. m., when the batteries in Fort
            Wood opened fire on Missionary Ridge. Rebel infantry could be seen marching down the
            crest of the ridge to the north, and it is presumed it was at this column that the fire
            of Fort Wood was directed. The guns of the enemy did not reply to the fire here, but
            opened with the guns on the point of Lookout. Both the Federal and Confederate batteries
            ceased firing about 11:30 a. m. The Eighty-sixth's sentinels were but a short distance
            from the rebel sentinels. A Sergeant in Company E, together with one or two comrades,
            went out between the lines and exchanged a paper with a rebel sentinel. When Colonel
            Dick heard of it he was quite indignant, and reproved the Sergeant and those with him in
            most emphatic terms.
          General T. J. Wood, the division commander, came out to the reserve station of the
            picket line and took observations of the enemy with his field glass, and made some
            inquiries of the Colonel relative to indications of a move by the enemy. Rebel officers
            could be seen watching the firing from Fort Wood with their glasses, coming quite out to
            their line of sentinels. It seemed evident that things were keyed to the point of an
            explosion and it might be expected at any moment.
          Again orders were received to have two days' cooked rations and one hundred rounds of
            ammunition, and be ready to move the next morning. About 8 o'clock p. m. the two days'
            uncooked rations were received at the station. By this time everything was quiet except
            a working party that was bridging Citico creek a little to the left of the reserve. They
            were hammering and pounding at a lively rate. Sherman's forces were said now to be up
            and in position, ready to cross the Tennessee river just below the mouth of South
            Chickamauga creek.
          The night of the 22d was a lovely one, clear and cool, 
            but it was not a pleasant duty to perform a midnight vigil. During that evening the
            order for the advance in the morning was countermanded on account of General Sherman not
            being ready to effect a crossing. The Eighty-sixth was relieved on the morning of the
            23d by the Nineteenth Ohio, Colonel Manderson commanding. The regiment returned at once
            to camp and breakfasted, expecting to enjoy a day of rest.
          The Army of the Cumberland was now on the eve of its release from a long siege of two
            months at Chattanooga. Concerning the question as to whether General Rosecrans intended
            at any time before he was relieved from command of the army to abandon the position
            there has been much controversy. Without desiring to enter this field the authors of
            this volume believe that General Rosecrans had no such intention, neither had his
            successor, General Thomas. The men composing this army had caught the spirit of their
            General, and although the situation was a trying one before the means of subsistence
            were fully provided and relief came, yet the men slackened not their grip on the prize
            purchased with the blood of their comrades and their own suffering, nor gave one inch of
            ground after their position had been taken. Neither officers nor men for a moment ever
            wavered in their firm resolve to hold the town.
          It is therefore believed that General Grant was grievously mistaken when, in speaking
            of his arrival at Chattanooga to take command, in an article published in the Century
            for November, 1885, and afterwards in his "Memoirs," says: "During the evening most of
            the general officers called to pay their respects and to talk about the condition of
            affairs. They pointed out on the map the line, marked with a red or a blue pencil, which
            Rosecrans had contemplated falling back upon."
          On the contrary Brigadier General Henry M. Cist, Assistant General on General
            Rosecrans' staff, and afterwards holding the same position on the staff of General
            Thomas, in his "History of the Army of the Cumberland," published in 1882, three years
            prior to the appearance of General Grant's 
            Century article, says: "However, not for an instant was the idea
            entertained of abandoning the town, to say nothing of the extreme hazard of attempting
            that, in the face of the strong force of the enemy on our front. The Army of the
            Cumberland had won Chattanooga and there they proposed remaining."
          Speaking of this statement of General Grant in an article in the North
              American Review for December, 1885, General Rosecrans says: "No officer of the
            Army of the Cumberland ever told him that I contemplated falling back." Again he says:
            "The next thing after getting Chattanooga was to keep it." General Thomas gives support
            to these statements in the first paragraph of his report of the operations opening the
            new and shorter supply line by saying: "In pursuance of the plan of General Rosecrans,
            the execution of which had been deferred until General Hooker's transportation could be
            got." This statement of General Thomas' shows that instead of Rosecrans' contemplating
            retreat he was planning to hold the town, planning to have the means to make his
            resistance effectual. General Rosecrans gives quite fully in his article the plans and
            preparations by him for supplying the army in the beleaguered town, showing conclusively
            that he had no thought of evacuating or yielding up the place to the enemy, but on the
            contrary he meant to hold it to the last. Besides the proofs found in the records which
            go to show that Rosecrans never intended to give up the place, the contemplation of such
            an important movement under the then existing circumstances and conditions could not
            have been kept secret, but would have found its way to the ranks in a thousand ways, and
            would have been quite freely discussed in the camps. But in this case the reports in
            camp were all against the evacuation. The sentiment of the rank and file was against it,
            and so strong that it would have been a difficult matter to have withdrawn the army.
            They might have taken things in their own hands, as they did a little later under Grant
            at Missionary Ridge, and held the town even against orders. They had, however, no
            occasion to discuss this phase of the situation, as it was the  common talk of the camps everywhere that Rosecrans had said, and no soldier
            of the Army of the Cumberland doubted it, that he would fight them to the last and hold
            the town at all hazards.
          Much more evidence could be given, but this is sufficient to show that General
            Rosecrans had at no time entertained the idea for a moment of abandoning Chattanooga,
            and that he had not lost confidence in the courage or fighting qualities of the army
            which he commanded, nor had the troops lost confidence in their General. Had General
            Rosecrans received the support from Washington at Chickamauga that was given to General
            Grant two months later the battles around Chattanooga would not have had a place in
            history.
        
        
          CHAPTER XVII.  THE BATTLE OF CHATTANOOGA.
          A Great Battle With a Picturesque Setting—An Unlooked for Crisis Precipitates
            It—Wood Makes a Reconnoissance—Ground Gained, Held, and
            Fortified—Hooker's Battle on Lookout Mountain—Sherman at the North End of
            Missionary Ridge—Thomas Ordered to Take First Line of Enemy's Works at Foot of
            Ridge and Make a Diversion in Favor of Sherman—The Order Promptly Obeyed—The
            Lines Captured in Hurricane Style—The Unordered Assault on Missionary
            Ridge—A Privates' Victory—A Battle Fought More Successfully Than Planned.
            But Not as Planned—A Victory That Astounded Grant in the Manner of its Coming as
            Much as it Did Bragg in its Results—General Cist's Account—Fullerton's
            Version—Bragg and Bate's Statements—Captain Reilly's Account of the
            Assault—Taylor's Brilliant Description of the Battle.
          The great strategical importance of Chattanooga made it "the key to the situation" of
            all the country lying to the southward of it. But the battle was looked forward to with
            the utmost anxiety, not only for its direct effect on the affairs in its own department,
            but on account of the fact that on the result of the contest at Chattanooga probably
            hung the fate of Knoxville and the Army of the Ohio under Burnside. Had Chattanooga and
            Knoxville been retaken by the rebels, the Union cause must have received a staggering
            blow, and one  from which it is exceedingly doubtful if
            the government would have been able to recover. Years have not diminished the importance
            of this battle in the eyes of the student of history. The battle of Missionary Ridge and
            Lookout Mountain was one of the decisive battles of the War of the Rebellion.
          In the striking features of its peculiarly grand and picturesque setting it probably
            excels that of any battle-field of the civil war. There are the surrounding mountains in
            all their beauty and rugged grandeur. There stand Lookout's tall peak overlooking the
            neighboring mountains and ridges as a guardian watches over his charge. There is
            Walden's Ridge north of the river, and its continuation, Raccoon Mountain across the
            river south. On the east is Missionary Ridge, low walling the valley, while in the
            valley between Lookout and Missionary Ridge lies Chattanooga. The Tennessee river sweeps
            grandly on in elegant curves through the valley, and on its broad surface is mirrored
            the beauties of hill and valley, of mountain and plain. These rock-rimmed mountains with
            their subordinate hills and the valley constitute a mighty amphitheater wonderfully
            beautiful and grand, from Nature's own hand.
          The brilliant and daring charge of General Hooker's troops on Lookout Mountain, was the
            successful opening of the battle that was to relieve the Union army from the siege of
            the two proceding months, and open the way to the further South. Sherman's battle at the
            north end of Missionary Ridge and the assault by the Army of the Cumberland upon the
            rebel left-center on the Ridge constituted the real battle of Chattanooga. General Grant
            gave his personal attention to the attack made upon the Ridge and selected his most
            trusted lieutenants to lead or direct.
          During the night of the 22d of November or early in the morning of the 23d some rebel
            deserters came into the Union lines and reported General Bragg withdrawing, or about to
            withdraw, from in front of Chattanooga. If this were true it was an unexpected turn of
            affairs and developed a crisis at once. General Bragg, satisfied now that he could  not starve the Army of the Cumberland to evacuate
            Chattanooga, might withdraw from its immediate front and detach a sufficient force to
            completely invest and overwhelm General Burnside at Knoxville. This crisis, to be met
            promptly, necessitated a change of the plan of the approaching battle and forced an
            immediate advance on the part of the Union forces. The safety of Knoxville and
            Burnside's army required that this should be done. To be deceived now as to the purposes
            and plans of the enemy might be fatal.
          General T. J. Wood was General Officer of the Day and at 3:30 a. m. reported to Major
            Fullerton, Assistant Adjutant General, the incoming of the deserters and their
            statements, as follows: 
              
                
                  MAJOR:
                  I have the honor to forward you the following information obtained from two
                    deserters who came inside the lines of this division after 12 this a. m. These
                    men state the rebel army is retreating. Say the troops which passed over the
                    ridge yesterday were going to Chickamauga Station. They say the rumor in camps
                    was yesterday, that by this evening there would be nothing but their pickets
                    left. Say their wagon trains had been ordered in, (they had been kept to the
                    rear for forage purposes.) They fully corroborate the statement of prisoners
                    received yesterday morning as to their artillery having all left. I send the
                    prisoners to corps provost marshal herewith."
                
              
            
          
          General Grant at once sent the following to General Thomas: 
              
                
                  
                    GENERAL:
                  The truth or falsity of the deserters who came in last night, stating that
                    Bragg had fallen back, should be ascertained at once. If he is really falling
                    back, Sherman can commence at once laying his pontoon trains, and we can save a
                    day.
                
              
            
          
          Therefore at 11 o'clock a. m. on the 23d of November, 1863, Major-General Gordon
            Granger, commanding Fourth corps, received the following from General Thomas' Chief of
            Staff, Major-General J. J. Reynolds: The General commanding the
                department directs that you throw one division of the Fourth corps forward in the
                direction of Orchard Knob, and hold a second division in supporting distance, to
                disclose the position of the enemy, if he still remains in the vicinity of his old
                camp. Howard's and Baird's commands will be ready to co-operate if
            needed.
          Upon receipt of the above General Granger at 12 m. sent to General Wood the following:
              Brigadier-General Wood with his division will, as soon as
                possible,  carry out the foregoing instruction, and
                will be supported by General Sheridan's division, to be posted along near the line
                of railroad, its right resting about midway between Moore's road and the Brush Knob
                in front of Lunette Palmer.
          General Sheridan in his report of the part taken by his division in front of
            Chattanooga on the 23d, says: "About 12 m. of the 23d, I was
                notified by Major-General Granger that General Wood would make a reconnoissance to
                an elevated point on his (Wood's) front, known as Orchard Knob; and I was directed
                to support him with my division and prevent his right flank being turned by an
                advance of the enemy on Moore's road and from the direction of
            Rossville."
          The exact words of these orders and Sheridan's report are given in order to show beyond
            doubt or cavil that Wood's division, of which the Eighty-sixth Indiana was a part, was the one division that made the reconnoissance and actually opened
            the great battle of Chattanooga.
          From the above orders of Generals Grant, Thomas and Granger it will be seen that the
            immediate cause which brought on the battle of Chattanooga at the time it occurred was
            the report of the rebel deserters, that General Bragg was falling back. These deserters
            came in through the picket line of the Third division, Fourth corps, and it was right
            and eminently proper that this division should verify the statements of these deserters,
            which had been sent to headquarters by its commander. Therefore immediately after dinner
            on the 23d came the order "Fall in!" "Fall in!" The order, peremptory in tone, was
            repeated down the line, and was promptly obeyed by the Eighty-sixth. The regiment was
            speedily formed and marched at once with Colonel George F. Dick at its head outside of
            the intrenchments. Other regiments soon joined, and ere long Beatty's brigade was duly
            formed and waited for the other brigades. The formation and alignment of Willich's and
            Hazen's brigades were soon completed, Willich's on the left and Hazen on the right.
            Beatty's brigade was formed to the left rear of Willich's command and was formed "in
            double column en masse," so it might readily be deployed and face the
            front or to the left and thus protect Willich's left flank. The Eighty-sixth  and Seventy-ninth Indiana were consolidated for the
            occasion and formed, as one regiment, the front of Beatty's brigade. Other regiments of
            the brigade were consolidated in a similar manner. The Eighty-sixth formed the left
            battalion and was consequently on the extreme left of Wood's division, the force making
            the reconnoissance, and liable to attack in flank.
          For two months the army had been besieged in Chattanooga. The time was now near at hand
            for raising the siege. General Wood, with his division, was to make a reconnoissance to
            determine whether or not Bragg's army was present in full force, or develop the fact if,
            as reported by the deserters, he was stealthily withdrawing. This reconnoissance became
            really the initiative step of the great battle. As has been shown the honor of the
            advance lies wholly with Wood's division, and whatever honor attaches to other divisions
            in this day's engagement it is solely that of supporting the Third division.
          The general plan of attack was as follows: A division of Sherman's troops was to be
            sent to Trenton up Lookout valley, to threaten the enemy's left flank. Under cover of
            this movement, Sherman's main body of the Fifteenth corps was to march up by Hooker's
            lines, then in Lookout valley, cross the river at the Brown's ferry bridge, mostly at
            night, thence into a concealed camp on the north side of the river, opposite South
            Chickamauga creek. For this movement Sherman was to be further strengthened by Davis'
            division of Thomas' army. One division was to go to a stream on the north side of the
            river known as North Chickamauga creek. About one hundred and twenty pontoons were to be
            taken, under cover of the hills and woods, and launched into the North Chickamauga.
            These were to be filled with men, and floated out into the Tennessee and down the river
            until opposite the South Chickamauga, about three miles below, effect a landing on the
            bank of the enemy's side, and throw up works. The remainder of the command was to cross
            in the same boats. Bridges were to be thrown across the Tennessee and South Chickamauga,
            then cross the artillery, and  move at once to seize a
            foothold on the north end of Missionary Ridge, taking up a line facing the enemy's right
            flank, near the railroad tunnel. Howard's corps, of Hooker's command, was to be held in
            reserve on the peninsula between the bridges of Brown's ferry and Chattanooga, in order
            to act with Sherman or Thomas, as the exigencies of the battle might determine.
            Subsequently he was directed to cross into the town, and fill the gap between Hooker's
            proposed position and the main body of the Army of the Cumberland. Hooker, with the
            remainder of his force, was to hold his position in Lookout valley and threaten the
            enemy's left. Thomas, with the Army of the Cumberland, was to co-operate with Sherman.
            He was to concentrate his troops in Chattanooga valley, on his left flank. As soon as
            possible he was to form a junction with Sherman.
          According to this plan the Army of the Cumberland was to be used merely to make a
            "demonstration," and was to be an idle spectator in the real work of routing Bragg's
            army.
          This statement of the original plan is supported by General Thomas, the heroic
            commander of the Army of the Cumberland, who, in his report of the three days' battle
            around Chattanooga, says: "The plan of operations was written
                out substantially as follows: Sherman, with the Fifteenth corps, strengthened with
                one division from my command, was to effect a crossing of the Tennessee river just
                below the mouth of the South Chickamauga, on Saturday, November 21, at daylight; his
                crossing to be protected by artillery planted on the heights on the north bank of
                the river. After crossing his force, he was to carry the heights of Missionary Ridge
                from their northern extremity to about the railroad tunnel before the enemy could
                concentrate a force against him. I was to co-operate with Sherman by concentrating
                my troops in Chattanooga valley, on my left flank, leaving only the necessary force
                to defend the fortifications on the right and center, with a movable column of one
                division in readiness to move whenever ordered. This division was to show itself as
                threatening as possible on the most practicable line for making an attack up the
                valley. I was then to effect a junction with Sherman, making my advance
                  from the left, well toward the north end of Missionary Ridge, and moving as near
                  simultaneously with Sherman as possible. The junction once formed and the
                Ridge carried, communications would be at once established between the two armies by
                roads running on the south bank of the river. Further movements to  depend on those of the enemy. Lookout valley was to be
                held by Geary's division of the Twelfth corps, and the two brigades of the Fourth
                corps ordered to co-operate with him; the whole under the command of Major General
                Hooker."
          This seems to be conclusive as to the plan of the battle, but General Thomas in the
            same report says further: "It will be perceived from the above
                report that the original plan of operations was somewhat modified
                to meet and take the best advantage of emergencies, which necessitated material modifications of that plan. It is believed, however, that the original
                  plan, had it been carried out, could not possibly have led to more successful
                  results."
          General Granger gives, in, his report of the battle, substantially the same "original
            plan" as General Thomas. Brigadier General T. J. Wood in his report says: "The original plan of operations was briefly this: The force of
                Major General Sherman was to cross the Tennessee river at the mouth of South
                Chickamauga creek, ascend the northeastern flank of Missionary Ridge—which
                here juts against the river-sweep along the Ridge and take the enemy's
                intrenchments, both at its base and on its crest, in flank and reserve.
              Two divisions of the Fourth army corps, General Sheridan's and my own, were to
                cross Citico creek near its mouth just above Chattanooga, move up the peninsula
                enclosed between the creek and the Tennessee river, form a junction with the right
                flank of General Sherman's force, swing to the right and sweep along the lower slope
                and the base of Missionary Ridge. The remaining force in Chattanooga was to make a demonstration against the enemy's works directly in front of
                  Chattanooga, while at the same time looking out for the safety of the town
                against a counterattack. The force in Lookout Valley—General
                Hooker's—was to threaten Lookout Mountain.
              It was conceded that a direct front attack of the enemy's works on Missionary Ridge
                could not be made with a reasonable prospect of success; or if such an attack should
                be successful, it could only be so at a great and unnecessary cost of
            life.
          The original plan of battle now being impressed on the mind and thoroughly understood,
            let the reader turn his attention to the different movements and see how well it was
            carried into execution. It will be seen that the battle was not fought as originally
            planned.
          A little after 2 o'clock p. m. the final preparations were completed, the order
            "Forward," was given, and the lines moved out. The musketry opened at once, not the
            musketry of lines of battle firing volleys, but the brisk, rapid  firing of strong skirmish lines earnestly and determinedly at work. The
            Union skirmishers pressed steadily and resolutely forward as the lines advanced. The
            line of battle moving quickly forward after the skirmishers, acted as a strong support
            for them, and the enemy gave ground. But all did not get back, as quite a number of the
            picket reserve in front of Willich's brigade were captured. After passing the old picket
            line the line of battle encountered many obstructions in its forward march, but
            nevertheless it pressed steadily on until Orchard Knob and a low rocky ridge lying to
            the south of the Knob, were approached. These were the objective points of the
            reconnoissance which had been fortified, and would have been difficult of capture if
            they had been fully manned. A dash that Willich's brigade gallantly made, carried
            Orchard Knob, and a similar onset by Hazen's brigade, made simultaneously with that of
            Willich, carried the ridge to the south of the Knob. Willich and Hazen having perfected
            their alignment after capturing the enemy's works on the Knob and the ridge, the
            Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth were deployed into line on the left of Willich's brigade
            with the left of the two regiments sharply refused. The movement was a complete success.
            No troops could have done better. General Wood, certainly a very competent judge of
            military matters and of the evolutions and movements of troops, says of this day's
            battle: "Then at the bugle signal, the magnificent array, in
                exact lines and serried columns, moved forward. It scarcely ever falls to the lot of
                man to witness so grand a military display. Every circumstance that could heighten
                the interest of, or impart dramatic effect to, the scene was present. On the
                ramparts of Fort Wood were gathered officers of high rank, covered with honors
                gathered on other fields. There were also officers distinguished for scientific
                attainments and rare administrative ability. Troops in line and column checkered the
                broad plain of Chattanooga. In front, plainly to be seen, was the enemy so soon to
                be encountered in deadly conflict. My division seemed to drink in the inspiration of
                the scene, and when the 'advance' was sounded moved forward in the perfect order of
                a holiday parade. It has been my good fortune to witness on the Champ de Mars and on
                Longchamps, reviews of all arms of the French service, under the eye of the most
                remarkable man of the present generation. I once saw a review, followed by a mock
                battle of the finest troops El Re Galantuomo. The pageant was held on  the plains of Milan, the queen city of Lombardy, and
                the troops in the sham conflict were commanded by two of the most distinguished
                officers of the Piedmontese service, Cialdini and another, whose name I cannot now
                recall. In none of these displays did I ever see anything to exceed the soldierly
                bearing and steadiness of my division, exhibited in the advance of Monday afternoon,
                the 23d. There was certainly one striking difference in the circumstances of these
                grand displays. The French and Italian parades were peaceful pageants; ours involved
                the exigencies of stern war; certainly an immense difference.
              I should do injustice to the brave men who then moved forward to the conflict in
                such perfect order were I to omit to record that not one straggler lagged behind to
                sully the magnificence and perfectness of the grand battle array."
          General Granger says of the movement: "The troops moved into
                line and position with such regularity and precision as to present the appearance of
                a formation for review or parade, and the enemy's pickets, but a few hundred feet
                off, were apparently awaiting a display or military pageant when our skirmish line
                advanced and opened fire."
          Later in the evening General Granger reported the success of the movement to General
            George H. Thomas, the Department Commander, and explained the position of General Wood's
            division. In return he was ordered to hold firmly the ground gained and was complimented
            on the success of the action.
          During the evening there was constant skirmishing, and the enemy opened with his
            batteries from Missionary Ridge, but did not do more than make a great noise, cut some
            limbs from the trees overhead and render the position uncomfortable and life insecure.
            As the Eighty-sixth was on the left of the division, and the left was sharply refused,
            the fire of the enemy's batteries on the ridge enfiladed the regimental line. At dark
            the men were ordered to lie down with accouterments on and guns at hand. About 11
            o'clock p. m. they were called up, furnished spades, shovels, picks, and axes and
            ordered to fortify the line as speedily as possible. General Howard says General Grant
            gave the orders to fortify as soon as he saw the movement was a success. General Howard
            says: "On November 23, 1863, Grant began his attack against Bragg, by a reconnoissance
            in force. Bragg's men at first thought the operation was one of Grant's reviews.  Quietly smoking a cigar, Grant watched the advance, and did
            not speak until Bragg's outpost, Orchard Knob, was in our hands, then he said
            emphatically, "Intrench them, and send up support." The order, however, did not reach
            Beatty's brigade until about 11 o'clock, sometime after the men had been asleep. The
            regiment was divided into divisions of two companies each, in order to better facilitate
            the work of intrenching. Everybody worked with a hearty good will. There were no
            laggards, and in a little more than two hours' time good heavy timbers were cut down and
            carried up and a strong barricade built; a trench was dug behind this and the dirt thus
            procured banked up on the enemy's side of the newly erected barricade, thus completing a
            strong line of intrenchments. Again the men were permitted "to lie upon their arms" and
            secure such rest as they could under the circumstances.
          At 4 o'clock on the morning of the 24th the entire division was ordered up. The
            Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth stood in line, in the ditch, ready for the enemy should
            he choose to advance. This position, "standing to arms," was maintained until after
            daylight, which for men thinly clad and who had worked hard for two hours or more late
            at night with insufficient sleep, was a very trying duty. Picket firing began as soon as
            it was light enough for the opposing lines to see each other. About 9:30 a. m. the enemy
            opened a strong fire with his artillery from Missionary Ridge. For an hour the
            cannonading was very severe. Little or no damage was done to life or limb, but the
            location was exceedingly uncomfortable. Bridge's battery, on Orchard Knob, consisting of
            four 3½ inch Rodman guns and two Napoleons, as well as the batteries in Fort Wood and at
            other points returned the enemy's fire, but with what effect was not known.
          During the forenoon the low hung clouds drifted over Lookout Mountain into Chattanooga
            valley until the mountain could not be distinctly seen, and about 12 m. the rain began
            to fall. Near the hour of noon the sound of battle was borne across the valley from the
            heights of Lookout  Mountain. The ball was rolling.
            "Fighting Joe" Hooker was in command of the Union forces there and was evidently
            maintaining his reputation made in the East. By reason of the rain and dense mist the
            mountain on which the battling hosts were contending was completely shut out from view,
            but the roar of the artillery and rattle of musketry told of the struggle then being
            waged to those who lay in the valley behind the works and listened, watched, and waited.
            General Grant did not contemplate an advance on Lookout Mountain, but merely the holding
            of Lookout valley. General Thomas accordingly had ordered Hooker to remain in Lookout
            valley and content himself with making demonstrations against the enemy then on the
            mountain. Hooker, however, ever ambitious and enterprising, was not content to be still
            and allow others to do all the fighting. In a letter to Secretary Chase he said: "Things
            began to look squally for me. I said to Butterfield that it was cut and dried for me to
            be a spectator to the fight, but thought that I would have a toe in the stirrup somehow
            before it was over." And he did. Hooker asked General Thomas that he be permitted to
            engage the enemy, and fortune favoring him, permission was granted. By the heavy rains,
            the Tennessee river had risen very high, the bridge at Brown's ferry was broken, and
            Osterhaus' division of the Fifteenth corps—Sherman's—could not cross and
            reach Sherman as had been contemplated. General Thomas in his report concerning the
            attack by General Hooker said: "Therefore it was determined that
                General Hooker should take Osterhaus' division, which was still in Lookout valley,
                and Geary's division, Whittaker's and Grose's brigades, of the First division of the
                Fourth corps, under Brigadier General Cruft, and make a strong demonstration on the
                western slope of Lookout Mountain, for the purpose of attracting the enemy's
                attention in that direction and thus withdrawing him from Sherman while crossing the
                river at the mouth of South Chickamauga. General Hooker was instructed that in
                making this demonstration, if he discovered the position and strength of the enemy
                would justify him in attempting to carry the point of the mountain to do
              so."
          General Hooker therefore having received orders from General Thomas, at once found that
            he would be justified in  making the attempt to carry
            Lookout, and so the battle of Lookout mountain was fought. The battle of Lookout and
            Missionary Ridge together, constituted the great battle of Chattanooga.
          While the men of Wood's division lay in their trenches on the 24th of November
            listening to the boom of Hooker's guns and the rattle of his musketry, and the answering
            guns of the enemy, they knew full well that their time would soon come; and that they
            would have an important part in the battle which was now fully opened, and they were
            ready. The Army of the Cumberland was determined to take its revenge on Bragg's army for
            bloody Chickamauga. Still exaggerated reports of his success traveled round the lines.
            Wood's division could judge that Hooker was gaining ground, as the advancing roar of
            battle indicated as much, but at what cost his advantage was gained was unknown. Orders
            had been given to Wood's division to be ready to move at a moment's notice, and yet no
            order to move came. Therefore, the enemy in their front and Hooker's noisy battle alone
            attracted their attention. There seemed to be no movement on the part of the enemy
            toward Lookout, no sign of a disposition to lend assistance to the forces on the
            mountain opposing Hooker.
          During the afternoon of the 24th, the Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana were
            exposed to a very heavy artillery fire from the Ridge, and again the batteries from
            Orchard Knob and other points returned the fire with spirit and gave the enemy shot for
            shot twice told. This was the red blast of war indeed—the wild mad game of battle
            once more for this army.
          The fighting on Lookout Mountain continued far into the night, 
                "The waves
                Of the mysterious death-river moaned;
                The tramp, the shout, the fearful thunder-roar
                Of red-breathed cannon, and the wailing cry
                Of myriad victims, tilled the air."
              
          The sound of the battle from time to time would die away until nothing could be heard
            but a desultory skirmish fire,  then suddenly it would
            burst forth again, a perfect tempest of musketry, accompanied by the boom of cannon.
            This continued until near midnight, when silence and the mist reigned over all.
          After dark the Eighty-sixth, together with the entire division, drew two days' rations
            of hard-tack, bacon, sugar and coffee.
          The night of November 24 was not promising, and it more than fulfilled the unfavorable
            weather signs. As the night advanced it grew extremely chilly, and the soldiery
            unprepared for cold weather suffered much. Many were forced to rise at 1 or 2 o'clock,
            build fires and thaw out their benumbed extremities. On account of the cold it was a
            night of extreme discomfort and suffering.
          It was now the 25th of November, historic day. The Eighty-sixth was up betimes. Colonel
            Dick at no time allowed it to be napping when duty called for watchfulness. The orders
            of the previous day, to be ready to move at a moment's notice, were again published.
          During the night of November 24, the enemy had withdrawn from Lookout Mountain and from
            Chattanooga valley, and on the morning of the 25th was massing his entire force on
            Missionary Ridge. During the night of the 24th Sherman had succeeded in crossing all of
            his army over the river, had captured the Confederate outposts, and had secured a firm
            footing at the north end of Missionary Ridge near the railroad tunnel. Early in the
            morning of the 25th, Sherman opened the battle and the sounds of the conflict were borne
            to the Army of the Cumberland as it lay awaiting its final orders to move. Throughout
            the hours of the forenoon the troops of the Fourth and Fourteenth corps listened to the
            din and roar of Sherman's army as the battle grew stronger and stronger from the
            addition of new troops to the contest. From where Thomas' troops lay the reinforcements
            that were being sent by General Bragg against Sherman could be seen as they hurried
            along the crest of Missionary Ridge to the assistance of their Confederate comrades. As
            the morning wore on the impatience and anxiety of the Army of  the Cumberland grew stronger and stronger. The Army of the Cumberland could
            not move, however, until Hooker could bring his troops across the valley and his line
            could be joined with Thomas' right. The rebels when they moved from Lookout had
            destroyed the bridges across the creek, and these had to be rebuilt before Hooker could
            cross. This was done as speedily as possible, and by 3 o'clock of the 25th Hooker was in
            position. At this time Sherman was holding his position by stubborn fighting, but was
            unable to make any headway, as the enemy had massed too heavily against him, and the
            fighting at the north end of the Ridge was most intense. The brave Hardee, with
            Cleburne, Cheatham and Stevenson's divisions were on the right of the Confederate lines
            in front of Sherman, and wherever Hardee was, there was sure to be a vigorous defense or
            a fierce attack. Resolute of purpose, with splendid soldiers, he could be depended on to
            hold his ground to the last. But Sherman, with the gallant Fifteenth corps, was equal to
            the emergency, and was holding his ground and fighting stubbornly to hold his position.
            The battle on the Union left—the rebel right—grew hotter, fiercer, deadlier.
            The rattle of musketry was unceasing and frightful.
          During all the forenoon and on into the afternoon the troops in front of the Army of
            the Cumberland had kept up an incessant and terrific fire. The enemy's skirmishers,
            almost equal to a line of battle in strength, had poured out a most frightful volume of
            musketry, while the batteries along the summit of Missionary Ridge kept up a vigorous
            cannonading. The casualties in this portion of the Union line were, however, not very
            great when considered with relation to the amount of firing that was done by the
            enemy.
          General Howard, with the Eleventh corps, now came into line on the left of the Fourth
            corps, but moved off to the support of Sherman, and Baird's .division of the Fourteenth
            corps moved in and took Howard's place. It did not, however, remain long; it too moved
            off to the left to the support of Sherman, and the left of the Fourth corps was
            uncovered. The shifting of so many troops to the left showed  that that point was Grant's objective, and that he desired to carry the
            north end of the Ridge before he made the attack upon the rebel left with Hooker's
            forces. All orders show that he desired Sherman to carry the Ridge as far south as the
            tunnel before the combined attack should be made.
          Sherman's battle grew more severe as the afternoon drew on. By 12:45 p. m. it had grown
            so hot that Sherman dispatched Grant: "Where is Thomas?" Thomas himself replied from
            Orchard Knob at 1 o'clock p. m. "I am here; my right is closing in from Lookout Mountain
            toward Missionary Ridge." Now, artillery, cavalry, and infantry could all be seen
            passing on the crest to support and assist Hardee and engage Sherman's forces. These
            heavy re-enforcements for Bragg's right indicated that he had divined Grant's plan of
            battle, of capturing the north end of the Ridge, and sweeping down its crest to the
            south with troops which were to be supported upon both flanks.
          Sherman was meeting severer opposition than had been anticipated, and the time had now
            come for earnest work on the part of the Union right and center in order to relieve him
            and hold what had already been acquired. To do this it was necessary to throw forward
            the center and right so that Bragg would not be able to send forward any further
            re-enforcements, and if possible force him to withdraw some of his troops from Sherman's
            front in order to protect his lines on Missionary Ridge. The Fourth corps was selected
            as the first to make "the demonstration on the enemy's works." By this demonstration it
            was intended that the Fourth corps should capture the enemy's picket or skirmish line
            and take and occupy Bragg's line of works at the foot of the Ridge. To that end the
            orders were issued to the division commanders to move their troops outside their works,
            reform their lines, and that six guns from Orchard Knob fired in quick succession should
            be the signal for the attack. By this order it was not intended or expected to pass
            beyond the first line of the enemy's works, and they were at the foot of the Ridge.
          The order was communicated to each of the brigade commanders,  and they at once put their commands in motion, crossed their works, reformed
            their lines, and awaited the signal from Orchard Knob. Each brigade was formed in two
            lines. The Third brigade of Wood's division, of which the Eighty-sixth Indiana was a
            part, was formed with the Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana in the first, or
            charging line, and the Thirteenth and Fifty-ninth Ohio, the Nineteenth Ohio and the
            Seventeenth Kentucky in the second line as supports. The Ninth Kentucky held the
            skirmish line, but some distance to the left of the brigade front.*
          
          While awaiting for the signal for the charge it may be well to look at the situation as
            it then confronted the front or charging line. The line of works at the foot of the
            Ridge was known to be very strong and most favorably situated for defense, as a sweeping
            fire of musketry could cover every foot of ground in its immediate front for several
            hundred yards. All along the foot of the Ridge there was open ground in which was left
            no shelter from the fire of the batteries on the Ridge, or from the fire of the infantry
            in the strong line of intrenchments at its foot. In fact, at the time the order was
            delivered it looked to be a fair chance for just such a slaughter of the Union troops as
            was afterwards made of the Confederates at Franklin. Hooker quotes Grant as saying he
            had nothing to do with the battle of Missionary Ridge, and it does seem, when the events
            are taken into consideration about to be related, as though he had little to do with the
            formation, shaping and working out of the crowning event of the day, his work simply
            being an act of "touching the button" and setting the machinery in motion. The troops
            worked out a victory in ways altogether different from that which he had expected.
          * General Beatty in a letter
            written to the Cincinnati Commercial, February 4, 1876, says: "My
            brigade was formed as follows: Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana on the right;
            Thirteenth and Fifty-ninth Ohio in the center, and the Ninth Kentucky on the left; the
            Nineteenth Ohio and the Seventeenth Kentucky in reserve. The Seventy-ninth and
            Eighty-sixth Indiana were the first regiments to gain the crest of the Ridge." Colonel
            Fred Knefler in a letter to the same paper March 20, 1876, says: "Beatty's brigade was
            formed as follows: The Ninth Kentucky held the skirmish line, but some distance to the
            left of the brigade front; the first line was composed of the Seventy-ninth and
            Eighty-sixth Indiana; the second line, of the Nineteenth Ohio and the Seventeenth
            Kentucky; the third line, of the Thirteenth Ohio and Fifty-ninth Ohio."
          
          Finally at 3:40 p. m. everything was believed to be properly arranged and in order,
            every emergency likely to arise carefully provided for. But it is the unexpected that
            happens in battle as elsewhere. All things being in readiness and expectation standing
            as tip-toe, boom! boom! boom! went the great guns from the crest of Orchard Knob, and
            roared and thundered out the signal that all might hear. From where stood the ranks of
            the Eighty-sixth could be plainly seen the flame and smoke shoot from the mouths of the
            guns as if they would blow with their mighty breaths of flame the enemy from the Ridge.
            "One!" spoke an iron throat of Bridges' battery, and with the sound each man grasped his
            gun with a firm grasp, and stood with contracted muscles and compressed lips. "Two!"
            "Three!" "Four!" "Five!" "Six!" Hardly had the last gun sent its messenger of death as a
            herald of the attack when the troops—Willich's—on Orchard Knob leaped up,
            out and over their works, and started for the enemy. They had not yet cleared their
            parapet when in trumpet tones Colonels Knefler and Dick gave the command, "Forward,
            march!" and the men of the two regiments, the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana, at
            the same instant sprang forward with a cheer on that charge that ended in the most
            brilliant victory in the annals of war. And now the battle for the Army of the
            Cumberland was again begun. Now was the time for action—heroic action. Once fairly
            in motion the tremor of the muscles was over—was a thing of the past.
          The Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana had a narrow strip of open woods through
            which to pass before coming to the opening in the immediate front of the enemy's works
            at the foot of the Ridge. Through this strip of standing timber the men pressed forward
            in as good line as was possible. However, as they drew near the farther side of this
            woods, which was rather more open, the men formed into a better line, and so the two
            regiments came out into the open ground in a fairly good line of battle. As they cleared
            this timber they came into a full and perfect view of the enemy's works at the foot of
            the Ridge, as well as those on its crest, and  about eight
            or nine hundred yards distant from the former, the objective point of the attack. The
            sight of the enemy in his intrenchments seemed to act as an electrifier. The yell was
            given over and over again as away went the two regiments on the full run for the enemy,
            determined to have that line of works at all hazards. Whether either Colonel Knefler or
            Colonel Dick gave the order to "double-quick," or "charge bayonet," on clearing the
            woods, no one can say, but it is presumed they did. At any rate the general shout of the
            line was sufficient to set every man going at his very best pace. As the Union line
            cleared the standing timber and came out into the open ground the long line of
            Confederate batteries on the crest of the Ridge opened a terrific fire. There were
            Dent's, Cobb's, Mebane's, and Slocomb's batteries, and others, vomiting death and
            destruction upon the valley. The boom of the many guns, the shriek of flying shells, the
            roar of their explosions, the whir of the flying fragments were positively appalling.
            The Union batteries on Orchard Knob, Fort Wood, and other points added their volcanic
            roar to the unearthly noise of the rebel batteries.
          The men who cast their eyes to the front, and then to the right, and then up the valley
            along the Union line and over the ground where it was advancing, could see in front a
            battery worked with fiery energy, and on the crest to the right a long line of rebel
            batteries with drifting clouds of sulphurous smoke above them. Here, there, everywhere
            the burstings shells and the smoke drifting lazily off could be seen. Some few burst on
            the ground, others five, ten, twenty, thirty, fifty, and some few perhaps a hundred feet
            or more in the air above. Some burst far in front, others overhead far to the rear
            toward the reserve. It was truly a grand and magnificent sight. It was a scene to be
            witnessed but once in a lifetime, and no one cares to look upon its like again under
            similar circumstances. There in front rose the great Ridge as a natural barrier, and on
            its crest the long row of rebel guns. Here below a long thin line of Union "blue-coats,"
            a line of battle to be swallowed up, as it seemed, in the volcanic eruption, rushing
            grandly and heroically on in the very face of  death, and
            above the heads of those heroic men the curling smoke from hundreds of exploding shells,
            which they apparently did not notice more than the drifting down of thistles blown by
            idle winds of autumn. All this was grand and heroic, but this was not the battle. The
            two regiments passed resolutely and fearlessly forward—on toward the goal. All
            along the valley to the right, following the lead of these two superb regiments, the
            blue line swept steadily and grandly on, no faltering, no hesitation, but ever
            forward.
          Colonel Knefler, in his account of the assault, says "at proper distance the line was
            halted an instant, firing a thundering volley, and, upon command to charge, rushed
            forward, defying the hostile fire." That line halted! When, where, by whom? Not a halt
            was made, not a check to its progress occurred, not a gun was fired by the charging
            column of Beatty's brigade until after the capture of the first line of works at the
            foot of the Ridge. The two regiments forming the front of this brigade went true to
            their orders direct for the main line at the foot of the Ridge without halt or
            hesitation. But a glance at this rapidly shifting panorama of a great and real battle
            scene was all that one in that rushing battle line had time to take, and hurried on to
            the capture of the first line of works at the foot of the Ridge, the objective point of
            the assault. The Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth rushed forward through the fire and
            shot, and onto and over this line of intrenchments. So strong was this rush upon the
            enemy that he became panic stricken and abandoned them, and all who escaped capture fled
            precipitately up the rugged mountain side. The Union cheers of victory and exultation
            added to his fright and hastened his flight, as he hurried rapidly toward the works on
            the crest of the Ridge. The men of the Union line arrived at these works almost
            exhausted in the effort made to reach the line in as short time as possible. Those who
            reached this line first, most of them, made a brief halt until some others began to
            arrive, for it must be understood where a line of men start out on a run some will be
            left, and consequently the line will become more or less disordered at  the finish in an advance of eight hundred or nine hundred
            yards at the highest rate of speed that each was capable of attaining.
          By this time the rebel gunners, and they were veterans, had recovered from the frenzy
            of their first excitement caused by the sudden discovery of the audacious movement
            against their first line of intrenchments directly beneath them. The tremor of their
            muscles had given place to steely steadiness and they settled down to soldierly work, as
            their fire now clearly proved. They were carefully depressing their guns with perfect
            range and were accurately delivering with terrific effect a plunging fire of shot and
            shell which no troops, on earth could face and remain quiet and inactive in line. It was
            but as the twinkling of an eye until the victors at this line of works saw and realized
            the situation. Even before half their comrades reached the works the leaders, of the
            line saw that no safe lodgment for a line of battle could be made here. No thought of
            retreat was entertained. It was not so ordered. Every fiery blast of the batteries on
            the Ridge made their old line of intrenchments at its foot quake and tremble. The
            command, "Forward!" "Forward!" was given and repeated. The command was received by the
            two regiments with a shout as if victory was already won. Granger's message, "Take the
            Ridge if you can!" passed along the bleeding line, but it was already advancing. Then began the real battle of Chattanooga, the storming and capture of the
              heights of Missionary Ridge! At once the privates and officers of the
            Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana, inaugurated a movement that was to result in a
            grander victory than Grant had ever dreamed of even in his brightest dream of victories.
            The Army of the Cumberland was to show here its magnificent fighting qualities. Even now
            its advance, the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana, were ahead of Grant's orders
            and expectations. In fact neither Generals Grant nor Thomas intended it.
          From this point and upward the two regiments, like mountain goats, were advancing up
            the rugged face of a ridge  four hundred feet high,
            exposed to a volcanic fire of the enemy intrenched on its summit. In the movement up the
            Ridge the gallant Colonels Knefler and Dick, quick to see its supreme importance, gave
            it the impetus of their commands and example and encouraged the brave men every step of
            the way up the steep acclivity. Instead of a mere "diversion" in favor of Sherman it was
            to be the culminating and deciding event of this great three days' battle. Wood's
            division of the Fourth corps opened the battle on the 23d, and now the victorious
            assault of Wood's and Sheridan's divisions of that corps, with two divisions of the
            Fourteenth corps—the Army of the Cumberland still—decided the battle in a
            marvelously wonderful manner greatly to the surprise of General Grant.
          This was truly the hurly burly of battle when "fearful scouring doth choke the air with
            dust and laden it with death." Onward, and yet onward, and upward, and yet higher,
            pressed that charging line, through the enemy's pitiless fire. The two regiments pressed
            undauntedly up the ridge. There was no halting, only to breathe and rest, for the
            climbing was extremely fatiguing. Only the hardiest could proceed steadily on even at a
            slow pace without halting to rest. As the two regiments advanced the enemy's fire grew
            hotter, fiercer, deadlier. Shot, shell, shrapnel, and as the disordered line drew nearer
            the crest, grape and canister were poured into the ranks of those faithful men at an
            appalling rate. Beatty's brigade, of which these regiments formed the front line, had
            struck the Ridge at a place where there was a more prominent elevation—Signal
            Hill—and from where a point projected to the west from the general line of the
            Ridge. This conformation of the Ridge at the place of ascent of the Eighty-sixth Indiana
            gave the enemy's artillery to the right and left, as well as the battery on the
            elevation itself, a better sweep to the approaches to the heights, and a cross-fire upon
            the assaulting forces now coming up, which opportunity they did not fail to improve. As
            the two regiments were so far in advance of the lines on the right and left they invited
            the fire of the whole of the enemy's  line within striking
            distance. But as this line climbed the Ridge, the infantry on the crest opened a hot and
            malicious fire of musketry upon the two Indiana regiments. Now the deadly zip, zip, zip,
            of the minnie balls added their minor but more fearful strain to the heavier notes of
            the batteries, and the latter apparently redoubled their fierce activity. The men of the
            Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth were now almost exhausted, and were creeping slowly up
            the Ridge turning to practical account trees, logs, stumps, and rocks as cover, returned
            the fire in a most valorous and effective manner, constantly encouraged in the advance
            by the officers of both regiments. Many were killed on both sides. As the two regiments
            approached nearer the enemy's works the battle grew if possible, fiercer. The mettle of
            both armies were here to be thoroughly tested. The enemy was stubborn, and tenaciously
            held his ground—clinging to his works, rallied by officers of high rank who
            exhorted the men to stand firm and hold their position.
          As the assaulting line still crept nearer and nearer the works on the crest,
            occasionally the "swish" of a ram-rod, fired by some of the more excitable, added
            another variation to the already tumultuous roar of battle—to the shriek of shot
            and shell, the rattle of grape and canister and the zip of the minnie ball on the rough
            and stony mountain side. The two regiments had kept well together as one regiment, and
            were far in advance of the rest of the line. They were now full nine-tenths of the way
            up the Ridge on the breast of Signal Hill and laid down there, waited and rested. To
            push on at this stage appeared suicidal for this mere handful of men, if they had not
            already got themselves into a veritable death-trap.
          The men were out of breath and almost completely exhausted. Only the strongest had been
            able to keep pace with the colors of the two regiments up the mountain. Some indeed were
            in advance of the standards, for it was endurance that was required to keep to the
            front, and in a run of nine hundred yards at top speed, and then climbing a mountain
            slope four or five hundred yards at an angle of forty-five degrees  accoutered as an infantry soldier, only the hardiest, sound in limb, heart
            and lungs can endure to the end. It was no child's play to climb the mountain, but to
            climb it after a long charge and in the face of a courageous enemy was heroic.
          It has already been said that these two regiments, rank, file and field, were
            responsible for the attack made upon the Ridge itself, and were far in advance of all other regiments on the mountain side. This is a fact which cannot be
            successfully called in question. General Sheridan in his report of what he saw when at
            the first line of works captured at the foot of the Ridge, says: "Looking to the left I
            saw a single regiment far over in Wood's line dash up the hill and lay down below the
            crest. General Hazen's men also commenced the ascent." Now that which General Sheridan
            calls one regiment was really two regiments, the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana
            consolidated as a single regiment, and as his words indicate, were far ahead of all
            other troops in the assault upon the intrenchments on the crest of the Ridge. These
            regiments were but a handful of men to meet the strong line of Bragg's men behind their
            intrenchments, but nevertheless they held their ground, clung to the brow of Signal
            Hill, and with their flags flying defiantly in the breeze. Notwithstanding they were few
            in numbers yet the enemy did not dare to come out of his intrenchments and attack. The
            lines at the foot of the Ridge had looked with wonder and surprise at the two regiments
            toiling toward the summit, until finally they together with their supports were ordered
            forward to join that small assaulting column which is now immediately under the guns of
            the enemy almost at the very summit of the Ridge. But all things must have an end, and
            now the line of regiments completing the division's battle line have almost joined these
            two regiments that have so gallantly led the van. Looking to the right and down the
            slope of the Ridge could be seen the long line, scattered somewhat and broken in places
            by the enemy's fire, pushing and fighting its way up the Ridge,  their regimental standards and the stars and stripes held aloft and floating
            in the breeze— 
                "Tho flags of war like storm birds fly,
                The charging trumpets blow."
              
          As this line of brave "blue-coats," undaunted, unappalled by what they have witnessed,
            approached the brow of the Ridge the battle roar increased, and fighting was intensely
            furious and desperate along the entire line. This was the Battle of
              Chattanooga—the Assault of Missionary Ridge!
          But as the whole battle front of the division approached the brow of the Ridge,
            followed by the supports, Colonels Dick and Knefler gathered their men for another
            desperate attack, determined to win the victory which they had striven so hard to gain
            and gave the command, "Fix—bayonets!" They were soon ready and when the order,
            "Charge—bayonets!" was given, the brave men of these two regiments went forward
            with a rush. Oh! It was a thrilling sight! Shot and shell were doing their murderous
            work. Nothing short of annihilation could stop those noble battalions. Higher, and still
            higher, they crept, until at last, just as the sun was sinking in the west, they reached
            the summit, and then as the gathered billow thunders and foams along and over the sunken
            ledges of the sea, they, with one wild shout and burst, swept over those deadly
            batteries. The Confederates saw and heard the preparation of the two regiments for the
            final dash and when it came they stood their ground, fighting desperately and hand to
            hand, but the assault was too grandly ferocious, and they broke and fled down the
            opposite declivity of the mountain, utterly dismayed and panic stricken. As these two
            regiments swept over the works and on, they were followed closely by the battle line of
            Willich's brigade, and those fighting to the right and left soon had Signal Hill and the
            Ridge for some distant to the right of it, cleared. Thus was a foot-hold on the mountain
            gained. Thus was the Ridge and battle won as never battle before was won. The next
            moment cheer after cheer went up all along the smoking crest, and rolled down the
            crimson steep, till to the right and left and far below, 
            the air trembled with glad echoes. Missionary Ridge was no General's battle. It was the
            battle of the soldiers themselves, who went, like an unchained whirlwind, without
            command, up to the crest, and to what, up to that time, was the most complete victory of
            the war. "It was a glorious victory."
          At 4:30 p. m. Assistant Secretary of War Dana telegraphed Secretary of War Stanton as
            follows: Glory to God. The day is decisively ours. Missionary
                Ridge has just been carried by a magnificent charge of Thomas's troops, and rebels
                routed.
          The point of the Ridge projecting to the west, which was mounted by the Eighty-sixth
            and Seventy-ninth, was one naturally affording a very strong position for the enemy,
            easily defended and difficult to climb, and therefore the exploit of these regiments
            leading the entire battle line is the more notable. On account of its elevation it was
            used as a signal station by the enemy during his occupancy. It was beyond all fair
            question the first point of the ridge carried.
          To the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana, therefore, belongs the honor of being
            the first regiments on the Ridge. What member of the Eighty-sixth regiment was the first
            to go over the enemy's works cannot be told. The honor is not so much in being first as
            in the brave endeavor. When all were striving so nobly and where everything was in such
            a turmoil and excitement it is not easy, nay, it is almost impossible to decide
            positively who has the honor to be the first. It was an honor to have been even the
            hindmost. Let every member of the Eighty-sixth who scaled the mountain that afternoon
            share alike in the honor, and "let them all go to glory together." Jefferson McClelland,
            of Company H, fell within a rod of the enemy's works on the crest of the
            Ridge—shot dead by a musket ball through the chest when charging on the line while
            fully manned. He had led all in the upward rush for the last line of works as he had
            done from the first start at the line at the foot of the Ridge. He paid the penalty of
            his daring courage with his life. W. W. Barnes received a severe contused wound of the
            thigh by a grapeshot  or a rock set flying by a plunging
            shot or shell which was not reported. Sergeant Stephen Cronkite, of Company E,
            color-bearer, carried the colors bravely and nobly forward until near the summit of the
            Ridge, when he fell seriously wounded. Then the brave Thomas J. Graves, Sergeant of
            Company D, seized the flag and mounted the Ridge and gallantly marching to the left led
            the attack upon the advancing Confederate reinforcements until he, too, was badly
            wounded. It was here that Sergeant Myron H. Belknap, of Company I, received an ugly gun
            shot wound through the shoulder. Captain William M. Southard gave up his life when near
            the crest, and not ten feet away that brave little soldier, Paris H. Peterson, of
            Company I, breathed his last breath. But the brave deeds of all on that memorable
            November afternoon cannot be recorded. Colonel Dick reported five enlisted men killed
            and thirty-eight wounded, one officer killed and two wounded, a total of forty-six. The
            loss of the Seventy-ninth was twenty-eight enlisted men wounded.
          The following is a list of the killed: 
              Company K.—Captain William M. Southard,
              " E.—Henry C. Cronkhite,
              " "—Milton Gallimore,
              " H.—Jefferson McClelland,
              " I.—Paris H. Peterson.
              " "—Jeptha Custer—6.
            
          
          The following is a list of the mortally wounded: 
              Company B.—Frederick Lunenburg,
              " "—Charles Waters,
              " C.—Jacob Cooper, color guard,
              " D.—James Ruloson,
              " F.—Eli A. Tipton,
              " "—Oliver Wood,
              " I.—Absalom Huffman—7.
            
          The following is a list of the severely wounded: 
              Company A.—John Harding,
              " "—James E. Padgett,
              " C.—James H. Brown,
              " "—Uriah Stevenson,
              
              Company D.—Thomas J. Graves,
              " E.—Harmon M. Billings,
              " "—Stephen Cronkhite,
              " F.—John Kent,
              " H.—William W. Barnes,
              " I.—Myron H. Belknap,
              " "—Jacob D. Bazzle,
              " K.—B. F. Snyder—12.
            
          The following is a list of the slightly wounded: 
              Lieutenant Colonel Jacob C. Dick,
              Company A.—Wilson DeMoss,
              " "—R. W. Stoops,
              " B.—Lieutenant Jerre Haugh,
              " C.—James S. Butcher,
              " D.—Bartley Scanlon,
              " "—John Solomon,
              " E.—Samuel Cloyd,
              " "—Levi A. Cronkhite,
              " G.—Jeffrey O. Cutts,
              " "—B. F. Paxton,
              " "—George W. Tull,
              " "—Allen Devoll,
              " H.—William F. Adams,
              " "—William H. Trulock,
              " I.—Thomas Decker,
              " K.—Tilghman A. Howard,
              " "—James Harrington,
              " " —Morris Welch,
              " "—William Sanders,
              " "—James Williams—21.
            
          The loss of the Eighty-sixth greatly exceeded that of any other regiment of Beatty's
            brigade, and was nearly double that of the Seventy-ninth, its companion regiment. The
            only reasonable explanation of the small loss of these two regiments is that they went
            quickly up the Ridge from the first line of works at its foot and thus gained the cover
            and protection from the enemy's terrible fire by the steepness of the western slope.
          
          It will thus be seen that the plan of battle, as given in the preceding pages of this
            chapter, was not carried out as originally intended by General Grant. The order given by
            General Granger, the commander of the Fourth corps, "Take the Ridge if you can," and
            sent to Wood and then to Sheridan, was not given until the Eighty-sixth and
            Seventy-ninth, cheered on by their officers, had climbed almost to the very top of the
            Ridge, and as Sheridan said "lay down below the crest," and held on by their teeth,
            nails and eye-lashes. Then and then only was the thought of the possibility of capturing
            the Ridge by a direct front assault conceived by the general officers. Then were the
            supports and reserve ordered up, and the attack made by the whole line that made the
            assault upon the first line of works at the foot of the Ridge.
          General Grant did not order or expect the assault to be made upon the Ridge at that
            time, or in the manner in which it was made, but simply an attack upon "the first line
            of works at the foot of the Ridge as a diversion in favor of Sherman who
              was hard pressed."
          General Wood's report shows that the intended attack upon the Ridge was quite a
            different thing from the one that was actually made, the one being a flank attack, while
            the other was a direct front attack upon the enemy's chosen position and fortifications.
            General Grant says of the troops and the assault: "Without awaiting further orders or
            stopping to reform, our troops went to the second line of works; over that and on for
            the crest, thus effectually carrying out my orders of the 18th for the battle, and of
            the 24th for this charge." General Grant here refers to an order issued while under a
            mistaken idea of the situation of the armies. In that order it is stated that Thomas
            will either "carry the rifle-pits and Ridge, or move to the left as the presence of the
            enemy may require." The order was conditional, and the conditions were not at all what
            they were thought to be, for in the opening sentence General Grant says: "General
            Sherman carried Missionary Ridge as far as the tunnel with only slight skirmishing."
            This conditional order for attacking the Ridge was given under the
            supposition that Sherman's attack had.  been successful
            and would continue to be so, and that in fact there would be little for Thomas' force to
            do. It is certainly plain that there was a change in the plan of the
              battle. General Grant did not expect a direct assault by the center. The evidence
            of this is complete and convincing. General Henry M. Cist, on this point says: Then, when Sherman had been fighting for nearly two days, and had
                failed to make the headway Grant's plan contemplated, the plan underwent another
                modification. On the 25th, Grant ordered Thomas to move out his troops from the
                center, to make another "demonstration"'' in Sherman's behalf, so he could take the
                tunnel in accordance with the original plan. Thomas was ordered to take the first
                line of rifle-pits and hold his command there, while Bragg was expected to draw off
                part of his troops from Sherman's front and strengthen his line in front of the
                demonstration. Thomas' orders to his corps and division Generals were given in
                accordance with Grant's instructions, and as the orders reached the brigade and regimental commanders, the movement was only
                to be a "demonstration." When the troops reached the rebel line, captured it, and
                then found themselves under the fire from the enemy's lines on the heights above,
                  without orders, and even against orders, the
                soldiers of the Army of the Cumberland pressed up the face of the Ridge under the
                deadly musketry fire that greeted them, with cannon in front of them, to the right
                and left, raking with converging fire, and won for General Grant the battle of
                Missionary Ridge, driving Bragg away from Sherman's front, and thus enabling him to
                take the tunnel as ordered. Whenever the victory of Missionary Ridge shall be
                narrated on history's page, this gallant charge of the brave men of Wood's and
                Sheridan's divisions, with those of Baird and Johnson on their left and right, will
                always be a prominent feature of the engagement as told in the coming years, and
                will be the last to lose its glory and renown.
              No wonder that General Grant failed to appreciate this movement at the time, not
                understanding the troops who had it in charge. When he found these commands
                ascending the Ridge to capture it, when he ordered a "demonstration" to be made to
                the foot of the hill and there wait, he turned sharply to General Thomas and asked,
                "By whose orders arc those troops going up the hill?" General Thomas taking in the
                situation at once, suggested that it was probably by their own. General Grant
                remarked that "it was all right if it turned out all right," and added, " if not,
                some one would suffer." But it turned out "all right," and General Grant in his
                official report compliments the troops for following closely the retreating enemy
                without further orders.
          General Cist relates these things from personal knowledge. As a member of General
            Thomas' staff he was present on Orchard Knob when the orders were issued, in fact,  they were issued through him, and being present he heard
            the above quoted remarks of General Grant. General Joseph S. Fullerton, of General
            Granger's staff, having described the capture of the line of works at the foot of the
            Ridge, says: The order of the Commanding General now had been
                fully and most successfully carried out. But it did not go far enough to satify
                these brave men, who thought the time had come to finish the battle of Chickamauga.
                There was a halt of but a few minutes to take breath and to re-form lines; then,
                with a sudden impulse, and without orders, all started up the Ridge. Officers,
                catching their spirit, first followed, then led. There was no thought of supports or
                of protecting flanks, though the enemy's line could be seen, stretching on either
                side.
              As soon as this movement was seen from Orchard Knob, Grant quickly turned to
                Thomas, who stood by his side, and I heard him say angrily: "Thomas, who ordered
                those men up the Ridge?" Thomas replied, in his usual slow, quiet manner: "I don't
                know; I did not." Then, addressing General Gordon Granger, he said, "Did you order
                them up, Granger?" "No,"said Granger; "they started up without orders.
                  When those fellows yet started all hell can't stop them." General Grant said
                something to the effect that somebody would suffer if it did not turn out well, and
                then, turning, stoically watched the Ridge. He gave no further orders.
              As soon as Granger had replied to Thomas, he turned to me, his chief-of-staff, and
                said: "Ride at once to Wood, and then to Sheridan, and ask them, if they ordered
                their men up the Ridge, and tell them, if they can take it to push ahead." As I was
                mounting, Granger added: "It is hot over there, and you may not get through. I shall
                send Captain Avery to Sheridan, and other officers after both of you." As fast as my
                horse could carry me, I rode first to General Wood, and delivered the message. "I
                didn't order them up," said Wood; "they started up on their own account, and they
                are going up, too! Tell Granger, if we are supported we will take and hold the
                Ridge!"
          General O. O. Howard confirms these statements as to Grant's remark to Thomas. He says:
              The nearest he came to chiding anybody was when Thomas'
                soldiers went forward from the base of the Ridge to the bristling crest without
                orders, when he remarked: "Well, somebody will suffer if they don't stay there."
                They did stay there and went beyond the captured summit.
          Of all the officers on Orchard Knob, General Gordon Granger alone has the honor of
            ordering, "Take the Ridge if you can." Of course it is understood that the division  commanders accompanied their troops. Charles A. Dana,
            Assistant Secretary of War was present on Orchard Knob during the day, and in his report
            of the assault to Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War, says: The storming of the Ridge by our troops was one of the greatest miracles in
                military history. No man who climbed the ascent by any of the roads that wind along
                its front can believe that 18,000 men were moved up its broken and crumbling face
                unless it was his fortune to witness the deed. It seems as awful as a visible
                interposition of God. Neither Grant nor Thomas intended it. Their orders were to
                carry the rifle-pits along the base of the Ridge and capture their occupants, but
                when this was accomplished the unaccountable spirit of the troops bore them bodily
                up those impracticable steeps, over the bristling rifle-pits on the crest and thirty
                cannon enfilading every gully. The orders to storm appears to have been given
                simultaneously to Generals Sheridan and Wood, because the men were not be held back,
                dangerous as the attempt appeared to military prudence. Besides, the Generals had
                caught the inspiration of the men, and were ready themselves to undertake
                impossibilities.
          This is clear as to Grant's order at the time of the assault. As to the judgment of the
            practicability of an assault on Missionary Ridge, Dana had dispatched November 8, 1863:
              Reconnoisance of Citico Creek and head of Missionary Ridge
                made yesterday by Thomas, Smith and Brannan, from the heights opposite on the north
                of the Tennessee, proved Smith's plan of attack impracticable. The creek and country
                are wrongly laid down on our maps, and no operation for the seizure of Missionary
                Ridge can be undertaken with the force which Thomas can now command for the
                purpose.
          General Granger in his report says: General Sherman was unable
                to make any progress in moving along the Ridge during the day, as the enemy had
                massed in his front; therefore, in order to relieve him, I was ordered to make a
                demonstration upon the works of the enemy directly in my front, at the base of
                Missionary Ridge.
          After describing the capture of the first line at the base of the Ridge, General
            Granger goes on to say: My orders had now been fully and
                successfully carried out, but not enough had been done to satisfy the brave troops
                who had accomplished so much. Although the batteries on the Ridge, at short range,
                by direct and enfilading fire, were still pouring down upon them a shower of iron
                and the musketry from the hillside was thinning their ranks, they dashed over the
                breastworks, through the rifle-pits, and started up the Ridge. They
                  started without orders. * * Eagerly they rushed forward
                   to a danger which the bravest, marching under
                orders, might tremble. Officers caught the enthusiasm of the men,
                and the men were in turn cheered by the officers. * * At
                several points along the line my troops were ascending the hill and gaining
                positions less exposed to the enemy's artillery fire, though more exposed to the
                fire of his musketry. Seeing this, I sent my Assistant Adjutant General to inquire,
                first of General Wood and then of General Sheridan, whether the troops had been
                ordered up the Ridge by them, and to instruct them to take the Ridge if possible. In
                reply to this, General Wood told him that the men had started up without orders, and
                that he could take it if he could be supported.
          It will be observed that orders were sent to Wood first. Why was this? Simply because
            his advance was farther up the Ridge. They had started up first and they kept ahead.
            According to both Granger and Fullerton the order, "Take the Ridge if you can," was sent
            first to Wood and then to Sheridan. General Wood, stout-hearted Wood, "the iron-gray
            eteran," says: As the day progressed the interest which
                attracted every eye and absorbed every feeling was that involved in the attempt of
                General Sherman's command to effect a lodgment on Missionary Ridge near the tunnel.
                Severer opposition than had been expected was evidently being met with. To lessen
                the opposition General Sherman was encountering, it was determined that a movement
                should be made against the rebel center. I was ordered to advance and carry the
                enemy's intrenchments at the base of Missionary Ridge and hold
                  them.
                * * When the first line of intrenchments was carried, the goal
                for which we had started was won. Our orders carried us no farther. We
                  had bee instructed to carry the line of intrenchments at the base of the Ridge and
                  there halt. But the enthusiasm and impetuosity of the troops were such that
                those who first reached the intrenchments at the base of the Ridge bounded over
                them, and pressed on up the ascent after the flying enemy. Moreover, the
                intrenchments were no protection against the enemy's artillery on the Ridge. To
                remain would be destruction—to return would be both expensive in life and
                disgraceful. Officers and men all seemed impressed with this truth. In addition, the
                example of those who commenced to ascend the Ridge so soon as the intrenchments were
                carried was contagious. Without waiting for an order the vast mass pressed forward
                in the race for glory, each man anxious to be the first on the summit. The enemy's
                artillery and musketry could not check the impetuous assault. The troops did not
                halt to fire. To have done so would have been ruinous. Little was left to the
                commander of the troops than to cheer on the foremost—to encourage the weaker
                of limb, and to sustain the very few who seemed to be faint hearted.
              
              To the eternal honor of the troops, it should be recorded that the laggards were,
                indeed, few in number. The interval which elapsed between the carrying of the
                intrenchments at the base of the Ridge and the crowning of the summit must have been
                one of intense and painful anxiety to all who were not participants in the assault.
                The ascent of Missionary Ridge was indeed an effort to try the strongest limbs and
                the stoutest hearts. But suspense and anxiety were not of long duration. Upward
                steadily went the standard of the Union—borne onward by strong arms, upheld by
                brave hearts—and soon it was seen flying on the crest of Missionary Ridge.
                Loud indeed were the shouts with which this spectacle was received.
          This evidence is conclusive and proves beyond cavil that General Grant did not intend
            that the assault should be directed against the Ridge itself. Dana in a dispatch to
            Stanton, sent November 23, 1863, at 8 p. m. says: "Nothing shows decisively whether
            enemy will fight or fly. Grant thinks latter; other judicious officers think former." On
            the 24th at 7:30 p. m. in a dispatch Dana says: "If Bragg does not withdraw the
            remainder of his troops we shall probably have a decisive battle." Sherman was now in
            position and Grant expected him to fight the battle if Bragg did not withdraw, but with
            Sherman threatening his line of communications Grant evidently expected the rebel forces
            to be withdrawn in accordance with the report of the deserters on the 23d. On the 25th,
            at 7:30 a. m. Dana, who was in constant communication with Grant, even when not present
            with him in person, dispatched Stanton: '"No firing at front. This makes it pretty
            certain Bragg retreated." At 9 a. m., however, he dispatched again: "Bragg evacuated
            Lookout Mountain last night and our troops occupy it, but he still holds to his
            rifle-pits along base Missionary Ridge." Once again before the attack Dana dispatched to
            Stanton on that memorable November day. At 1 p. m. he wired: "In our front here rebel
            rifle-pits are fully manned, preventing Thomas gaining the Ridge." These messages show
            two things: First, that it was confidently believed and expected by Grant, Dana, and
            others during the 24th, that on the following night Bragg would evacuate his position
            and works on Missionary Ridge in front of Chattanooga. In the last message it is very
            plainly hinted that the Ridge was too strong to be  gained by an assault, and it cannot be reasonably doubted that both
            ideas were based upon expressed judgments of Grant. The last one, at least, by a tacit
            acknowledgement that Bragg's position was too strong to be
            assaulted.
          M. C. Meigs, Quartermaster General of the army, in a dispatch to Secretary Stanton
            says: "General Grant proceeded to the summit, and then only did we know its height,"
            conceding that the difficulties of mounting the Ridge were greater than he and other
            general officers had supposed, although before the assault was made they were considered
            to be insurmountable.
          The honor of the assault lies clearly with the rank and file who conceived the idea
            under a storm of iron hail, and to the general officers who first observed what their
            gallant men would do and encourage them in their brave endeavors by ordering up their
            supports and reserves. The honor belongs distinctly to the two divisions of the Fourth
            corps, Generals Wood and Sheridan. The troops of these two divisions led all others in
            their magnificently conducted assault. Of these two divisions it will be conclusively
            shown that Wood led Sheridan. Sheridan's remark when at the first line of works at the
            foot of the Ridge as much as concedes Wood's claim. That remark was: "Looking to the
            left I saw a single regiment far over in Wood's line dash up the hill and lay down below
            the crest. General Hazen's men also commenced the ascent." Wagner's brigade, of
            Sheridan's division, had been recalled and his division lay on the foot of the Ridge,
            while the advance of Beatty's brigade of Wood's division, the Seventy-ninth and
            Eighty-sixth Indiana, had almost crested the Ridge. Captain Reilley, of the Tenth
            Kentucky, which was in Baird's division of the Fourteenth corps, certainly an unbiased
            witness, supports this claim. The claim is further strengthened by the testimony of
            Confederate officers. They were on the Ridge carefully watching the advance and their
            own line of defense. Generals Bate and Bragg, who were present until after their lines
            were broken on the north of Bragg's headquarters, both testify that their lines were
            first broken in that part held by Patton  Anderson's
            division, whereas Sheridan, and those who uphold his claim, state that the Confederate
            lines were first broken south of Bragg's headquarters, a point far to the
            right—Federal right—of that given by Generals Bate and Bragg. General Bate's
            division, of Breckenridge's corps, of Bragg's army, occupied the crest of the Ridge some
            distance north and south of Bragg's headquarters. It would, therefore, be in the line of
            Bate's duty to have this part of the line under the closest observation. He was reputed
            to be a courageous, careful, and skillful division commander. From his more favorable
            position to view the entire field he would be the better able to know exactly where the
            Confederate line was first broken and the Ridge carried than any Union officer engaged
            in the assault. Besides General Bragg agreed with the statement of Bate. Sheridan
            necessarily had his attention engaged and probably very closely confined to his division
            in directing its attack and upward progress. Sheridan says it was the right of his
            division that first mounted to the crest of the Ridge, and that it was south of Bragg's
            headquarters. This is probably true of his division, but Bate, supported by the
            testimony of Bragg, says the Confederate line was first broken some distance to the
            north of Bragg's headquarters, in the line of Patton Anderson's division, and this seems
            to agree exactly with the statements of Wood, Beatty, Reilly and others, and is
            therefore true. Wood's division was on the left—north—of Sheridan's, but
            Bate's line was more extended than Sheridan's and overlapped it and covered a part of
            Wood's front. By this formation Wood's brigades attacked, in their assault, the troops
            of the two divisions. Wood's right brigades fought Bate's troops, with the possible
            exception of the left of Willich's brigade front, while Beatty's, the left brigade,
            fought Patton Anderson's left on Signal Hill, "beyond the depression north of Bragg's
            headquarters, where a section of artillery of Dent's battery had been firing and was
            then located." If due notice is taken of General Bate's words it will satisfy any
            reasonable person that the first break was at the point where the two regiments, the
            Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana,  mounted the
            Ridge, and referred to by General Bate. Here are General Bate's own words: "In a few moments I saw a flag waving at the point in the line of
                General Anderson's division, beyond the depression in the Ridge, where a section of
                artillery of, Dent's battery had been firing and was now located. I thought it a
                Confederate flag, but on near approach and more minute inspection I soon detected
                the United States colors. The line in my front had recoiled a second time, but was
                rallied and was advancing up the hill in such numbers as to forbid the displacing of
                any of my command. I was ordered by General Bragg to withdraw a portion of my
                command and dislodge him if possible; but upon suggesting that I was without
                reserve, and the danger of withdrawing when so hard pressed on the front, which
                would necessarily cause a gap in my line, he directed me to take such as could be
                best spared. I at once took the command under Major Weaver, which had come from the
                ditches and were aligned across the Crutchfield road, it being disengaged, and moved
                it at a double-quick some five or six hundred yards to the elevation on the right
                and rear of where the enemy had formed near his flag. I was unable, notwithstanding
                the assistance of Major Weaver, to get his command farther, and could only form it
                on the hill at right angles to my line, protecting my flank, and seek to dislodge
                him by a well-directed fire or hold him in check until the repulsed brigade in
                Anderson's line could be rallied and retake their lost ground. Having made this
                disposition and opened fire, I left Lieutenant Blanchard, of my staff, to report the
                result and returned to my line, which was being dangerously
                pressed. It was but a few moments until the second and third lags were on the Ridge
                near the same spot, and the enemy in such numbers as to drive away the command under
                Major Weaver. This command, upon the advance of the enemy, broke and retired in
                disorder. The enemy turned our guns upon us and opened a fire of musketry from our
                right and rear. This advantage gained caused my right to give back.
              In seeking to rally the right I did not see the exact time when the flag went up at
                the left of General Bragg's headquarters, but refer to the reports of Brigadier
                General Finley."
          Finley's reports and the reports of others referred to could not be found, as they are
            not given in "The Rebellion Records," but presume that they correspond with the reports
            of Bate and Bragg. General Bragg says: "About 3:30 p. m. the
                immense force in the front of our left and center advanced in three lines, preceded
                by heavy skirmishers. Our batteries opened with fine effect, and much confusion was
                produced before they reached musket-range. In a short time the roar of musketry
                became very heavy, and it was soon apparent the enemy had been repulsed in my
                immediate front. While riding along the crest congratulating  the troops, intelligence reached me that our line was broken on my
                right, and the enemy had crowned the Ridge. Assistance was promptly despatched to
                that point under Brigadier General Bate, who had so successfully maintained the
                ground in my front, and I proceeded to the rear of the broken line to rally our
                retiring troops and return them to the crest to drive the enemy back. General Bate
                found the disaster so great that his small force could not repair it.
              About this time I learned that our extreme left had also given way, and that my
                position was almost surrounded. Bate was immediately directed to form a second line
                in the rear, where, by the efforts of my staff a nucleus of stragglers had been
                formed upon which to rally. Lieutenant General Hardee, leaving Major General
                Cleburne in command on the extreme right, moved toward the left when he heard the
                firing in that direction. He reached the right of Anderson's division just in time
                to find it had nearly all fallen back, commencing on the left, where the enemy had
                first crowned the Ridge. By a prompt and judicious movement he threw a portion of
                Cheatham's division directly across the Ridge facing the enemy, who was moving a
                strong force immediately on his left flank. * * All to the
                left, however, except a portion of Bate's division was entirely routed and in rapid
                flight, nearly all the artillery having been shamefully abandoned by its infantry
                support. * * The position was one which ought to
                  have been held by a line of skirmishers against any assaulting
              column."
          This is quoted from General Bragg's report of the battle, and is directly to the point
            as to where his line was first broken. It
            corroborates Bate's statement on this point. It also shows why General Wood used sound
            military sense by not rushing on over the Ridge into the valley in pursuit of the
            retreating enemy and exposing his left flank to Hardee's attack. It also shows the
            extreme daring courage of the rank and file in presuming to attack, without orders, a
            strong battle line intrenched in a position "which ought to have been held by a line of
            skirmishers against any assaulting column." All this is submitted as evidence that the
            Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana, led by Colonels Fred Knefler and George F. Dick,
            first mounted to the volcanic crest of Missionary Ridge on the 25th of November,
            1863.
          General Willich claimed his brigade was first upon the Ridge, but says the flag of the
            Eighty-sixth was among the first of the flags upon the crest.
          General Turchin, of Baird's division, also claimed that his brigade was first to mount
            to the crest of the ridge. The  statement of Hugh Leslie,
            a member of Company A, Fifty-ninth Ohio, of Turchin's brigade, who was in the ranks that
            day and witnessed the magnificent assault of the two leading regiments of Beatty's
            brigade controverts his claim. He was not blinded by an ambition that would rob his
            comrades in arms of their just won honors. Here is his statement made in a letter
            written to J. A. Barnes and dated at Hillsboro, Ohio, September 12, 1893: 
              
                
                  I belonged to the First brigade, Third division, Fourteenth corps. I said then
                    and I say now that the first flag that I saw at the rebel works was an Indiana
                    flag, a bright new flag, and according to the description that I gave you we
                    concluded that it was your flag. * * It was after we had
                    taken the rebel works that we went over to the left to help scatter a rebel line
                    that had formed after they were driven out. We had no officers there to give any
                    commands at that time—the boys fought that battle on their own account.
                      * * If this was your flag I am very glad to testify to
                    the facts for they were brave boys and true, as were all the Indiana boys that I
                    had the honor of knowing. * * I have stated the plain
                    facts and can testify to them all.
                
              
            
          This letter was not quite clear as to the exact location of this flag Comrade Leslie
            had seen first at the rebel works, hence the second one, which is dated at Hillsboro,
            Ohio, October 4, 1893: 
              
                
                  I received your letter of the 24th. * * You want me to
                    make a clear statement of the case which I can do just as well. The flag that I
                    saw was on the immediate right of Turchin's brigade, and I believe now was the
                    flag of the Eighty-sixth Indiana.
                
              
            
          Comrade Leslie speaks only of the Eighty-sixth, but, of course, it is understood that
            the two regiments acted together as one regiment.
          Some years afterward in a letter to Lieutenant Colonel Bailey, of the Ninth Kentucky,
            Colonel Dick writes: 
              
                
                  We remained on the Ridge all the next day, our guns stacked just where we
                    entered the works. During the day—the 26th—many staff and General
                    officers came along the Ridge to look over the conquered ground, and I will not
                    thought to be claiming anything above any other regiment, if I state that they
                    halted at my flag, and remarked: "Here is the new flag that went in first." And
                    the place where the rebel line was first broken was an object of interest all
                    day. These things I claim for Beatty's brigade. The facts are very prominent
                    before my mind that our brigade went up in its own front against a big
                    opposition, captured troops in front of the brigade on the left, fought hard
                    along the  Ridge to the north until the battle
                    ended, and saw no troops in our front except the enemy at any time.
                
              
            
          General Beatty speaking of the assault says: The advance of my
                brigade was the Seventy-ninth Indiana, Colonel Fred Knefler, and the Eighty-sixth
                Indiana, Colonel George F. Dick. These regiments advanced with spirit and drove the
                enemy from his rifle-pits and works at the foot of the Ridge.
              The fire of the enemy was so hot here, and enfilading us so completely, that
                Colonel Knefler, commanding the two regiments, was not ordered to halt, and pushed
                on up the hill. This rendered it necessary to support them with other troops, and,
                being unable to obtain communication with General Wood, I immediately ordered
                forward the Thirteenth Ohio, Colonel Jarvis, and the Fifty-ninth Ohio, Major
                Vanosdol, to their assistance. Most gallantly did these regiments spring to their
                work, and step by step, exposed to the terrific fire of batteries on the right,
                left, and front, did they ascend the steep hill. Hoping to obtain a firm
                footing on the Ridge, I ordered forward the remaining two regiments of my brigade,
                Seventeenth Kentucky, Colonel Stout, and the Nineteenth Ohio, Colonel Charles F.
                Manderson, to support those already sent forward, and soon after received the order
                from General Granger to send forward all my troops.
              These two regiments advanced in splendid order. By the time they were half way up
                the Ridge the four regiments in advance had gained the crest and occupied the rebel
                works, having successfully, at the second attempt, charged the enemy from them and
                planted their colors on the summit of Missionary Ridge. The colors of four regiments
                of my brigade, viz: Seventy-ninth Indiana, Eighty-sixth Indiana, Thirteenth Ohio,
                Fifty-ninth Ohio, were almost simultaneously planted on the enemy's works. At nearly
                the same time the colors of a regiment of General Willich's brigade were established
                on the works by its Colonel.
          General Beatty further says: In recounting the operations of my
                command in the advance of the lines on the 23d, and the charging of Missionary Ridge
                on the 25th, I have to compliment Colonel Fred Knefler, Colonel George F. Dick,
                Colonel Alexander M. Stout, Colonel Dwight Jarvis, Colonel George H. Cram, Colonel
                Charles F. Manderson, and Major Robert J. Vadosdol for the discipline and efficiency
                of their troops, and upon the gallant style with which each vied with others in
                doing their utmost to secure a victory to our arms. The advance of the
                  Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana was strongly resisted by the enemy, but led
                  by their gallant commanders, and supported by the advance of the Thirteenth
                and Fifty-ninth Ohio regiments in splendid style, succeeded in first
                  planting the national flag on the rebel works on the summit of Missionary
                  Ridge.
          In this last statement General Beatty makes amends to the Seventy-ninth and
            Eighty-sixth for his former statement  that "the colors of
            four regiments of my brigade, viz: Seventy-ninth Indiana, Eighty-sixth Indiana,
            Thirteenth Ohio, Fifty-ninth Ohio, were almost simultaneously planted on the enemy's
            works." In this last he states that "the Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth," supported by the other regiments, "first
              succeeded in planting the national flag on the rebel works on the summit of
            Missionary Ridge." This was exactly the situation.
          Colonel Knefler's report is as follows: Nothing occurred
                Tuesday, the 24th, or Wednesday, the 25th, until about 3 o'clock in the afternoon,
                at which time I was ordered by General Beatty to advance with my command beyond our
                works and form on the left of the front line of General Willich, to advance and take
                the rifle-pits of the rebels in our front. The rebels upon our approach abandoned
                their rifle-pits, which were occupied by our forces. Not having received any order
                to remain in the rebel works, I ordered my command to advance upon the mountain side
                in our front. Crossing the open space beyond the works we met a terrific fire,
                enfilading my command in all directions. The fire of the rebels becoming very
                severe, and their infantry in front, who were retreating before us, halting
                occasionally and firing upon us, I perceived that the safety of my command required
                it to get the protection of the mountain side to be enabled to take shelter among
                the trees and rocks. I urged a rapid advance, and with the hearty co-operation of
                the officers of both regiments the whole line was carried forward in the best order
                possible, on almost inaccessible ground. Here protected by the steepness of the
                mountain, the men were enabled to make good their foot-hold, and reply to the rebel
                musketry, which was very galling, and almost surrounding us. We advanced steadily
                step by step. When near the top my attention was called by Captain Howe to the fact that our advance upon the mountain isolated us from the rest of
                  the line with which we advanced upon the enemy's rifle-pits; there was no support
                  on the right or left, and on looking back perceived our forces occupying the rebel
                  work below; to retrace our steps would have been inevitable destruction to
                the entire command. The resolve to advance and hold every inch of ground until
                supported was our only safety. The line advanced firmly, taking advantage of every
                obstacle, under a most furious fire of artillery and small arms, the enemy rolling
                lighted shells among my men and throwing rocks upon our heads; but the ground was
                held and contested with the utmost determination. The rebels did not succeed in
                forcing us back one step. We remained in our position, our flags and the enemy's
                almost touching, keeping up a heavy fire, until support came on the right and left,
                advancing up the mountain. At last orders were given to fix bayonets, and to charge
                them; once the effort failed, but advancing again succeeded, and gained the  enemy's works, which were covered with dead and
                wounded, and full of rebels, who made haste to fling away their guns and to get to
                our rear. As my men swarmed upon the crest the rebels made another stand, commanded,
                as ascertained, by the rebel General Hardee, but their resistance was very feeble;
                they were quickly broken, and fled in the greatest confusion. Here a battle-flag was
                captured; I regret to say it was torn to shreds by the men in their eagerness to
                secure mementoes. After pursuing the rebels, and the capture of many pieces of
                artillery and numerous prisoners, the command bivouacked upon the crest of
                Missionary Ridge. * * I beg leave to call the attention of the
                general to the following officers whose conduct deserves special mention: Captains
                Hanna, Jordan, and Howe, Adjutant Ritter, Lieutenants Mount and Burns of the
                Seventy-ninth Indiana Volunteers; Captain Sims, Gregory, and Carnahan, Lieutenants
                McInerny and Laymon, of the Eighty-sixth Indiana Volunteers.
              I cannot close this without making my acknowledgments and thanking Colonel George
                F. Dick, of the Eighty-sixth Indiana Volunteers, for the very valuable
                  assistance rendered me in commanding the two regiments while consolidated
                during the battle and from the time we left our camps.
          The following is Colonel George F. Dick's report: 
              
                
                  IR:-I have the honor to submit the following as
                      a report of my regiment in the late engagement near Chattanooga, on the 23d of
                      November:
                  
                  According to orders received from headquarters, I moved out my regiment, which,
                    according to previous arrangements, had been consolidated with the Seventy-ninth
                    Indiana Volunteers, Colonel Fred Knefler commanding. My regiment formed the left
                    wing of the battalion, and we moved in front of Fort Wood, where with the
                    brigade, we formed in double column in mass. We then moved on the enemy and
                    halted when about one mile east of the fort, where we were ordered to deploy in
                    line of battle. We lay in this position till dark, nothing occurring in our
                    front with the exception of picket firing, when we were ordered to move to the
                    right a short distance. We bivouacked until about l1 p. m., when orders were
                    received to dig rifle-pits and construct an abatis in front by felling the dense
                    timber.
                  The 24th we lay in the same position awaiting further orders.
                  On the 25th, at 3:30 o'clock, we received orders to move forward, which we did,
                    and halted outside the abatis, and formed in line with and to the left of
                    General Willich. Orders were given to forward on double-quick and charge the
                    enemy's breastworks at the base of Missionary Ridge. We double-quicked about one
                    mile, driving the enemy before us in confusion, and took possession of his
                    works, during the whole of which time we were under a most deadly fire from his
                    guns on the Ridge. It was here that Major Jacob C. Dick and Lieutenant Jerry  Haugh, commanding Company B, received wounds which
                    disabled them to lead their men farther. The pursuit was continued, and when at
                    the foot of the Ridge we had to face volleys of musketry from the enemy. We
                    charged the hill through this hail, which was poured into our ranks from
                    rifle-pits at the summit of the mountain, which was about 1,200 feet in height,
                    and the ascent at about an angle of 50 degrees. When about two-thirds of the way
                    up, the brave and much loved Captain Southard, Company K, was instantly killed
                    while gallantly leading and cheering his men. When within about fifty feet of
                    the enemy's works our men, being so nearly exhausted, halted behind stumps and
                    trees to rest. Again we started, following the colors, which were nobly borne
                    aloft by the color-bearer Sergeant Stephen Cronkite, Company E. This gallant
                    soldier deserves much honor for his bravery in bearing the unfurled Stars and
                    Stripes up these steep and rocky heights, and in the face of a most bitter fire.
                    When within fifteen feet of the enemy's works he fell wounded and was unable to
                    go farther. They were taken up by Sergeant Thomas J. Graves, Company D, who
                    gallantly carried them over the works and pursued the confused and retreating
                    enemy.
                  Here might be mentioned that some of the men were in advance of the colors.
                    Private John Clawson, Company C, has the proud honor of being the first man
                    inside the works in our front on the heights of Missionary Ridge. A portion of
                    the regiment continued the pursuit, following the retreating enemy pouring
                    deadly volleys into his confused and scattered ranks. When about a quarter of a
                    mile to the left of the point where we reached the summit, the enemy made a
                    stubborn resistance behind a second line of breastworks. Here Sergeant Thomas J.
                    Graves, who was gallantly waving the colors, fell dangerously wounded. They were
                    taken up by Captain William S. Sims, who almost at the same time captured the
                    Major of the Forty-second Alabama. However, we succeeded in driving the enemy.
                    Another portion of the regiment charged directly over the Ridge, and with others
                    of the brigade captured and brought to the top, by hand, two pieces of
                    artillery. We bivouacked on the Ridge for the night.
                  On the 26th, we lay on the Ridge awaiting further orders. At 8 p. m. orders
                    were received to return to camp near Chattanooga, which were complied with,
                    arriving here about 10 o'clock.
                  Of my regiment, I am proud to say, that both officers and men behaved well.
                    Much honor and credit is due them. The officers in particular displayed that
                    courage and bravery that should characterize every true soldier. I might
                    especially mention, as these came under my immediate observation, and without
                    any disparagement to others, the names of Captains Sims, Gemmer, Gregory, and
                    Carnahan, and Lieutenants McInerny and Laymon, as doing much in leading their
                    men to victory.
                  Of our companions in arms, the Seventy-ninth Indiana Volunteers,  I can pay them no higher compliment than to say
                    they fought with their usual gallantry and bravery.
                  The colors on whose folds were inscribed, "Presented to the Eighty-sixth
                    Indiana Volunteers by the ladies of Boone county," * received
                    eighty-eight musket shots and two in the staff, one of which severed it.
                    Herewith I send you a rebel battle-flag, captured while ascending the hill.
                  While it is out of place, and I feel a delicacy in presuming to dictate as a
                    junior officer, yet I must say that Colonel Fred Knefler, Seventy-ninth Indiana
                    Volunteers, well deserves and richly merits a commission as a brigadier general,
                    for his gallantry displayed in charging and taking Missionary Ridge.
                  The regiment went into the engagement with two hundred and thirty-six men and
                    nineteen officers. Herewith I send you a list of the casualties.
                
              
            
          
          As has been stated before the loss of the Eighty-sixth in the assault upon the Ridge
            was greater than that of any other regiment in Beatty's brigade, and nearly double that
            of its companion regiment, the Seventy-ninth. In fact, according to the records that
            regiment did not lose a man killed and only twenty-eight wounded, but the mention of
            this small loss must not be understood as an attempt to detract from that regiment's
            gallantry. It was occasioned by its less exposed position. The other two brigades of
            Wood's division lost more heavily than did Beatty's brigade. There were two very plain
            reasons for this. The brigades were larger—had a greater number of men exposed to
            the enemy's fire and they were a longer time getting well up the Ridge, and therefore a
            longer time in securing the protection of its steepness. The loss of Hazen's brigade was
            the greatest of any brigade engaged in the battle before Chattanooga or on Lookout
            Mountain. This must in part, at least, be accounted for by the withdrawal of Wagner's
            brigade—the left brigade of Sheridan's division—after it began the ascent of
            the Ridge, thus leaving Hazen's right unprotected and exposed, and the enemy on his
            right unengaged and free to attack him. Yet the official tabulated list of casualties is
            a little misleading as to the loss of regiments and brigades in the * For a history of the colors of the Eighty-sixth
              regiment see Appendix to this volume.
             assault proper as it includes the losses of three days'
            fighting, viz: the loss of the advance and attack upon Orchard Knob, and also the loss
            by skirmishing on the 23d, 24th and 25th, as well as that of the assault upon the Ridge.
            The loss of the Eighty-sixth as reported is confined strictly to the killed and wounded
            of the assault proper. To include all the loss of the Eighty-sixth of the three days'
            battle it would be fifty, and perhaps more. But as reported the loss was nearly twenty
            per cent. of the number engaged. This loss in less than one hour's fighting indicates
            hot work and close quarters where the work could be made effective. But it still remains
            a marvelous, miraculous affair to all who labored up the Ridge through that volcanic
            down pour of shot, shell, shrapnel, grape and canister, and musket balls, that many,
            very many more were not killed and maimed for life whenever they think of the red
            current of war that swept down the steep declivity, through their ranks and over their
            heads, literally raking the mountain slope from crest to foot. As Taylor well says, "The
            story of the battle of Missionary Ridge is struck with immortality." But he says, "Let
            the leader of the Fourth corps bear it company." Shall it not rather in justice be said,
            let the leaders, the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana, bear it company, as they
            were the first to conceive and first to put in execution the thought of trying to
            capture the Ridge—the real originators of that memorable assault. Let history be
            just even though it be towards the men in the ranks and humble subalterns.
          As material results, and as revealing how thoroughly the enemy was beaten and
            demoralized by the successful assault on Missionary Ridge, Captain T. G. Baylor, Chief
            of Ordinance of the Department of the Cumberland, gives the following summary of the
            captures of ordinance and ordinance stores: Field guns and howitzers, 40; field
            carriages, 38; caissons, 26; battery wagons and forges, 5; rounds of artillery
            ammunition, 2,236; stands of small arms, 6,175, besides infantry accouterments without
            end. General Brannan,  Chief of Artillery, Army of the
            Cumberland, in his report gives the following credits: 
              
                By General Davis' division, at Chickamauga Station
                24-pounders
                2
              
              
                By General Geary's division on Lookout Mountain
                field pieces
                2
              
              
                By General Osterhaus' division on Missionary Ridge
                field pieces
                1
              
              
                By General Wood's division on Missionary Ridge
                field pieces
                12
              
              
                By General Sheridan's division on Missionary Ridge
                field pieces
                6
              
              
                By General Johnson's division at Graysville
                field pieces
                4
              
              
                By General Baird's division on Missionary Ridge
                field pieces
                1
              
              
                Claimed by Generals Baird and Wood Missionary Ridge
                field pieces
                6
              
              
                Claimed by Generals Wood and Sheridan Missionary Ridge
                field pieces
                6
              
            
          
          It will be seen from this report that Wood's division is far ahead in the number of
            captured cannon turned into the proper authorities. Of Wood's capture, Beatty's brigade
            lays claim to eight guns, two of which were brought in by the Eighty-sixth Indiana.
            Besides this, Wood's division captured seven regimental colors, 2,050 stands of arms,
            and over 2,000 prisoners. Among the prisoners were officers of all grades, Captain W. S.
            Sims, of the Eighty-sixth, the Forty-second Alabama. As to how this was done Colonel
            Dick, in a letter afterward, says: "The advance troops of our brigade turned quickly to
            the left, with my flag in front in command of Captain Sims. They soon came against a
            redoubt manned by the Forty-second Alabama, the commander of which saw our flag coming,
            and told his men to lie still and they would sally out and capture it when it came near.
            Sims told his men that they must take that rebel flag. The commander of the Alabama
            regiment called to his men to leap over the works after him, but they arose and leaped
            out on the other side, leaving their commander to fall into our hands; and he did fall,
            hurting his face on the rocks, at Sims' feet, who literally got on top of him and held
            him down. He took supper with us that night and told us all that I have described
            above." Bragg's loss was about 3,100 in killed and wounded, and nearly 7,000 prisoners.
            Of the latter 239 were commissioned officers.
          The casualties reported in the Union army, in the series of struggles which ended in
            the victory at Missionary Ridge,  were 753 killed, 4,722
            wounded, and 349 missing, making an aggregate of 5,824. Of this total the Army of the
            Tennessee lost 1,695, and the Army of the Cumberland 4,129, of which the Fourth corps
            lost 2,527, the Eleventh corps 330, the Twelfth corps 341, and the Fourteenth corps
            931.
          The heroic conduct of the Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana on Missionary Ridge
            was witnessed by Captain Reilly, of the Tenth Kentucky. He penned a vivid account of
            what he saw for the Louisville Journal, which appeared in that paper directly after the
            battle. It will be remembered that the Tenth Kentucky was in Baird's division, and
            therefore he was not interested in the Seventy-ninth or Eighty-sixth. His statements may
            therefore be accepted as unbiased. The following is Captain's Reilly's letter: "The summit of Missionary Ridge is one thousand feet above the
                Tennessee river and towers aloft in grandeur, a fitting monument to commemorate the
                great victory achieved by our national arms on the memorable 25th of November. On
                that day the Star Spangled Banner could be discerned slowly scaling the steep and
                rugged ascent, riveting the gaze of thousands of anxious spectators in the line of
                battle below. It seemed that the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana had failed
                to receive orders to halt when it was given to the line of battle. Onward they moved
                as it were into the jaws of death. The terrible suspense of their brave comrades was
                only equaled by the great Napoleon when he stood on the summit of a ridge at
                Waterloo gazing between hope and despair at the last grand charge of his Old Guard
                until they were lost sight of in the clouds of smoke of the enemy's cannon. Step by
                step they ascended until within fifty yards of the bristling bayonets of the rebel
                rifles when they received the order to lie down. The rebels opened on them and
                volley after volley was poured into their ranks, midst the wild and enthusiastic
                shouts of the rebels, and defiant waving of the Stars and Bars—said to have
                been done by Bragg in person. Springing to their feet with the energy of desperation
                the glorious Eighty-sixth Indiana leads the grand charge to victory or death,
                followed by the  Seventy-ninth Indiana, and onward
                they pushed their columns through a shower of bullets that rattled like hail and
                were lost to view in the smoke of battle. A death stillness pervaded the line of
                battle below for a few moments, when the anxious inquiry passed along the lines, 'Is
                our flag still there?' It seemed like hoping against hope to expect that the two
                regiments had met any other fate than instant annihilation; every minute seemed a
                month for half an hour, at the end of which time the smoke had disappeared and our
                glorious flag greeted the anxious spectators, floating in triumph over the rebel
                works. It was the war-worn banner of the immortal Eighty-sixth Indiana which was
                held until re-inforcements came and secured the position gained by the most daring
                and terrible charge that history ever recorded. The flag of the Eighty-sixth Indiana
                that sealed this victory received in its folds eighty-six shots, emblematic of the
                regiment it so gallantly led through the ranks of death to a crowning victory. The
                staff was broken by a ball, but it still waves over one of the most gallant
                regiments that ever entered the field of battle. The answer on that memorable night
                to ten thousand inquiries infused a new spirit in the army as it responded along the
                line, 'Yes, our flag is still there.' Forty thousand spectators who witnessed the
                brilliant scene and asked the question while held in fearful suspense, will ask it
                as often as returning memory brings to mind the grand charge of the two gallant
                regiments on Missionary Ridge. Who will commemorate this great achievement and the
                thrilling incidents associated with it, in poetry? The subject is eminently worthy
                of our best poets and could be embodied in a National anthem that would inspire all
                patriotic hearts with renewed devotion to the glorious flag of our
            country."
          Captain Reilly has one error in his account. He says the flag of the Eighty-sixth
            received eighty-six balls in its folds. There were eighty-eight bullet holes in the flag
            itself, one struck the spear-head above the flag and a grape-shot cut the staff off
            below the flag, making in all ninety balls that struck the flag and staff.
          
          Perhaps the finest general description of the assault by the Fourth corps on Missionary
            Ridge was written by B. F. Taylor, the poet. He makes the mistake of crediting General
            Grant with conceiving the idea of the assault upon the Ridge. Dr. L. B. Brockett, in his
            work, "Camp, Battlefield, and Hospital," says, introducing Taylor's description: "The
            bold and rapid movement, by which, while marshaled, as the enemy supposed, for
            dress-parade, the Army of the Cumberland swept across the plain and captured Orchard
            Knob; that succession of fierce and persistent struggles in which Sherman wrestled for
            the capture of Tunnel Hill, and by which he drew to that point so large a portion of
            Bragg's troops; and last and most glorious of all that fiery ascent of Missionary Ridge,
            in which that noble Fourth corps marched and climbed for a long hour through a furnace
            of flame, and after struggling up an ascent so steep that to climb it unopposed would
            take the stoutest energies, swept their enemies from its summit, and over all the broad
            vista disclosed from its summit, saw only a flying and utterly routed foe. Many writers
            have attempted to describe, and with varying success, this brilliant feat of arms, but
            none have succeeded so admirably as Mr. B. F. Taylor, of the Chicago Journal, himself an eye-witness of it. We give a portion of his description
            which is as truthful as it is glowing. Mr. Taylor writes:
          "The brief November afternoon was half gone; it was yet thundering on the left; along
            the center all was still. At that very hour a fierce assault was made upon the enemy's
            left near Rossville four miles down toward the old field of Chickamauga. They carried
            the Ridge; Missionary Ridge seems everywhere—they strewed its summit with rebel
            dead; they held it. And thus the tips of the Federal army's widespread
            wings flapped grandly. But had not swooped; the gray quarry yet perched upon Missionary
            Ridge; the rebel army was terribly battered at the edges, but there full in our front it
            grimly waited, biding out its time. If the horns of the rebel crescent could not be
            doubled crushingly together, in a shapeless mass, possibly it might be sundered at  its center, and tumbled in fragments over the other side of
            Missionary Ridge. Sherman was halted upon the left; Hooker was hard in Chattanooga
            valley; the Fourth corps, that rounded out our center, grew impatient of restraint; the
            day was waning; but little time remained to complete the commanding General's grand
            design; Gordon Granger's hour had come; his work was full before him.
          "And what a work that was to make a weak man falter and a brave man think! One and a
            half miles to traverse, with narrow fringes of woods, rough valleys, sweeps of open
            field, rocky acclivities, to the base of the Ridge, and no foot in all the breadth
            withdrawn from rebel sight; no foot that could not be played upon by rebel cannon, like
            a piano keys, under Thalberg's stormy fingers. The base attained, what then? A heavy
            rebel work. That work carried, and what then? A hill, struggling up out of the valley,
            four hundred feet, rained on by bullets, swept by shot and shell; another line of works,
            and then, up like a Gothic roof rough with rocks, a wreck with fallen trees, four
            hundred more; another ring of fire and iron, and then the crest, and then the enemy.
          "To dream of such a journey would be madness; to devise it a thing incredible; to do it
            a deed impossible. * * The story of the battle of Missionary Ridge
            is struck with immortality already; let the leader of the Fourth corps bear it
            company.
          "That the center yet lies along its silent line is still true; in five minutes it will
            be the wildest fiction. Let us take that little breath of grace for just one glance at
            the surroundings, since we shall have neither heart nor eyes for it again. Did ever
            battle have so vast a cloud of witnesses? The hive shaped hills have swarmed. Clustered
            like bees, blackening the housetops, lining the fortifications, over yonder  across the theater, in the seats with the Catilines,
              everywhere, are a hundred thousand beholders. Their souls are in their eyes. Not
            a murmur can you hear. It is the most solemn congregation that ever stood up in the
            presence of the God of battles. I think of Bunker Hill as I stand here; of the thousands
               who witnessed the immortal struggle; and fancy there is
            a parallel. I think, too, that the chair of every man of them will stand vacant against
            the wall to-morrow, and that around the fireside they must give thanks without him if
            they can.
          "Generals Grant, Thomas, and Granger conferred, an order was given, and in an instant
            the Knob was cleared like a ship's deck for action. At twenty minutes of four, Granger
            stood upon the parapet; the bugle swung idle at the bugler's side, the warbling fife and
            the grumbling drum unheard—there was to be louder talk—six
            guns, at intervals of two seconds, the signal to advance. Strong and steady his voice
            rang out: 'Number one, fire! Number two, fire! Number three, fire!' it seemed to me the
            tolling of the clock of destiny—and when at 'Number six, fire!' the roar throbbed
            out with a flash, you should have seen the dead line that had been lying behind the
            works all day, all night, all day again, come to resurrection in the twinkling of an
            eye—leap like a blade from its scabbard, and sweep with a two mile stroke toward
            the Ridge.
          "From divisions to brigades, from brigades to regiments, the orders ran. A minute, and
            the skirmishers deploy; a minute, and the first great drops begin to patter along the
            line; a minute, and the musketry is in full play, like the crackling whips of a hemlock
            fire; men go down, here and there, before your eyes; the wind lifts the smoke and drifts
            it away over the top of the Ridge; every thing is too distinct; it is fairly palpable; you can touch it with your hand. The divisions of Wood and
            Sheridan are wading breast deep in the valley of death.
          "I never can tell you what it was like. They pushed out leaving nothing behind them.
            There was no reservation in that battle. On moves the line of the skirmishers, like a
            heavy frown, and after it, at quick time, the splendid columns. At right of us, and left
            of us, and front of us, you can see the bayonets glitter in the sun. *
              *
          
          "And so through the fringe of woods went the line. Now, out into the open ground they
            burst at the double-quick. Shall I call it a Sabbath day's journey, or a long one  and a half mile? To me, that watched, it seemed as
            eternity, and yet they made it in thirty minutes. The tempest that now broke upon their
            heads was terrible. The enemy's fire burst out of the rifle-pits from base to summit of
            Missionary Ridge; five rebel batteries of Parrots and Napoleons opened along the crest.
            Grape and canister and shot and shell sowed the ground with rugged iron, and garnished
            it with the wounded and the dead. But steady and strong, our columns move on. 
                "By heavens! It was a splendid sight to see.
                For one who had no friend, no brother there."
               But to all loyal hearts, alas! and thank God, those men were friend and
            brother, both in one. 
          "And all the while our lines were moving on; they had burned through the woods and
            swept over the rough and rolling ground like a prarie fire. Never halting, never
            faltering, they charged up to the first rifle-pits with a cheer, forked out the rebels
            with their bayonets, and lay there panting for breath. If the thunder of guns had been
            terrible it was now growing sublime; it was like the footfall of God on the ledges of
            cloud. Our forts and batteries still thrust out their mighty arms across the valley; the
            rebel guns that lined the arc of the crest full in our front, opened like a fan of
            Lucifer and converged their fire down upon Baird, and Wood, and Sheridan. It was rifles
            and musketry; it was grape and canister, it was shell and shrapnel. Missionary Ridge was
            volcanic; a thousand torrents of red poured over its brink and rushed together to its
            base. And our men were there halting for breath! And still the sublime diapason rolls
            on, echoes that that never waked before, roared out from height to height, and called
            from the far ranges of Walden's Ridge to Lookout. As for Missionary Ridge, it had jarred
            to such music before; it was the "sounding board" of Chickamauga; it was behind us then; it frowns and flashes in our faces to-day; the old Army of the
            Cumberland was there; it breasted the storm till the storm was spent, and left the
            ground it held; the old Army of the Cumberland is here! It shall roll up the Ridge  like a surge to its summit, and sweep triumphant down the
            other side. Believe me, that memory and hope may have made the heart of many a blue-coat
            beat like a drum. 'Beat,' did I say? The feverish heat of battle beats on; fifty-eight
            guns a minute, by the watch, is the rate of its terrible throbbing. That hill, if you
            climb it, will appal you. Furrowed like a summer-fallow, bullets as if an oak had shed
            them; trees clipped and shorn, leaf and limb, as with the knife of some heroic gardener
            pruning back for richer fruit. How you attain the summit weary and breathless, I wait to
            hear; how they went up in the teeth of the storm no man can tell.
          
          "But our gallant legions are out in the storm; they have carried the works at the base
            of the Ridge; they have fallen like leaves in winter weather. Blow, dumb bugles! Sound
            the recall! 'Take the rifle-pits,' was the order; and it is as empty of rebels as the
            tomb of the prophets. Shall they turn their backs to the blast? Shall they sit down
            under the eves of the dripping iron? Or shall they climb to the cloud of death above
            them, and pluck out its lightning as they would straws from a sheaf of wheat? But the
            order was not given. And now the arc of fire on the crest grows fiercer and longer. The
            reconnoissance of Monday had failed to develop the heavy metal of the enemy. The dull
            fringe of the hill kindles with the flash of great guns. I count the fleeces of white
            smoke that dot the Ridge, as battery after battery opens upon our line, until from the
            ends of the growing arc they sweep down upon it in mighty Xs of fire. I count till that
            devil's girdle numbers thirteen batteries, and my heart cries out, 'Great God, when
            shall the end be?' There is a poem I learned in childhood, and so did you: it is
            Campbell's 'Hohenlinden.' One line I never knew the meaning of until I read it written
            along that hill! It has lighted up the whole poem for me with the glow of battle
            forever: 
                And louder than the bolts of heaven,
                Far flashed the red artillery.
               "At this moment, General Granger's aides are dashing out with an order; they
            radiate over the field, to the left, right, and front; 'Take the Ridge if you
            can'—' Take the  Ridge if you can"—and so it
            went along the line. But the advance had already set forth without it.
            Stout-hearted Wood, the iron-gray veteran, is rallying on his men.
          "And now you have one of the most startling episodes of the war; I cannot remember it
            in words; dictionaries are beggarly things. But I may tell you they
            did not storm that mountain as you think. They dash out a little way, and then slacken;
            they creep up, hand over hand, loading and firing, and wavering and halting, from the
            first line of works to the second; they burst into a charge with a cheer, and go over
            it. Sheets of flame baptize them; plunging shot tear away comrades on the left and
            right; it is no longer shoulder to shoulder; it is God for us all! Under tree trunks,
            among rocks, stumbling over the dead, struggling with the living, facing the steady fire
            of eight thousand infantry poured down upon their heads as if it were the old historic
            curse from heaven, they wrestle with the Ridge. Ten, fifteen, twenty minutes go by like
            a reluctant century. The batteries roll like a dream; between the second and last lines
            of rebel works is the torrid zone of the battle; the hill sways up like a wall before
            them at an angle of forty-five degrees, but our brave mountaineers are climbing steadily
            on—up—upward still! You may think it strange, but I would not have recalled
            them if I could. They would have lifted you, as they did me, in full view of the heroic
            grandeur; they seemed to be spurning the dull earth under their feet, and going up to do
            Homeric battle with the greater gods.
          What colors were first upon the mountain battlement I dare not try to say; bright honor
            itself may be proud to bear—nay, proud to follow the hindmost. Foot by foot they
            had fought up the steep, slippery with much blood; let them go to glory together. But
            this I can declare: the Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana, of Wood's division,
            fairly ran over the rifle-pits, and left their whole line in the rear, and their
            breathless color bearers led the way. A minute and they were all there, fluttering along
            the Ridge from left to right. The rebel hordes rolled off to the north, rolled off to
            the east, like the clouds of a worn out storm.
          
          "These three days' work brought Tennessee to resurrection; set the flag, that fairest
            blossom in all the flowery world, to blooming in its native soil once more.
          "It made that fleeting November afternoon imperishable. Than the assault upon
            Missionary Ridge, I know of nothing more gallant in the annals of the war. Let it rank
            foremost with the storming of Fort Scharnitz and Alma, that covered the French arms with
            undying fame.
          
          Let the struggle be known as the battle of Missionary Ridge, and when, in calmer days,
            men make pilgrimage, and women smile again among the mountains of the Cumberland, they
            will need no guide. Rust will have eaten the guns; the graves of the heroes will have
            subsided like waves; weary of their troubling, the soldier and his leader will have lain
            down together; but there embossed upon the globe, Missionary Ridge will stand its
            fitting monument forever." 
        
        
          CHAPTER XVIII.  ON TO KNOXVILLE.
          After the Battle the Rescue—Through Mud and Through Stream—Over Hill and
            Down Dale—The Fourth Corps Marched to Succor the Army of the Ohio and the Gallant
            Burnside—An Attenuated Diet—Parched Corn and Government Bacon—An
            Exciting Though Amusing Incident—The Arrival at Knoxville—A "Sick Flour"
            Experience.
          Immediately after the successful assault on Missionary Ridge, the Fourth corps,
            commanded by Major General Gordon Granger, was ordered by General Grant to march at once
            to the relief of General A. E. Burnside and the Army of the Ohio, besieged at Knoxville
            by Lieutenant General James B. Longstreet, then the Confederate's most skillful and
            daring battle chief. Lee had called Longstreet his "old war horse," as Longstreet
            himself records. After a rainy night, on the morning of the 28th of November the  bugles of the Fourth corps sounded the reveille at 4
            o'clock. The regiment formed by companies, answered roll-call, prepared and ate
            breakfast, and was ready for the march. The orders were to march at 6 a. m., but it
            continued to rain and the order to move was not given until 2 p. m. The Eighty-sixth was
            soon ready. The regiment was ordered into line and stacked arms, after which the men
            lounged about the old camp and discussed the probable course of the march, the time it
            would require to reach Knoxville, the general results and the thousand and one things
            that soldiers are always discussing when time and opportunity for discussion are given.
            However, about 4:30 p. m. the word was given to "Forward march," and the regiment was
            enroute for Knoxville and the relief of Burnside.
          Although late in starting, it was not too late. The men were heavily laden with
            rations, ammunition, blankets, and tents, and all the paraphernalia of the infantry
            soldier. The roads were execrable and the marching was wearisome. It was a forced march,
            as the object was to succor and relieve the besieged army at Knoxville. The first
            evening the command covered four miles and bivouacked after dark. The Eighty-sixth,
            however, did not have the pleasure of sharing the bivouac with the command, it being
            detailed for picket. Performing picket duty while on a march is what might be considered
            doing double duty, but then it was one of the "diversions" in the life of soldiers. The
            evening was pleasant but as the night advanced it became quite cold and all who were at
            all exposed were thoroughly chilled.
          Sunday morning, November 29, the regiment was up by 4 o'clock, and after a hasty meal
            was soon ready for another day's tiresome dragging through the mud. Resumed the march
            about daylight, but little progress was made because of so many halts. About noon the
            command halted for dinner. The march was resumed at 1 o'clock, and shortly afterward
            crossed the South Chickamauga creek. The pace was still moderate and continued so until
            about one hour before sundown, when it was quickened, and the regiment marched rapidly
               forward. The roads were muddy, but mud was not to be
            considered. Nothing was to be thought of only to attain the highest rate of speed
            possible and maintain it. The regiment went splashing along through the mud like so many
            wild horses, wading streams knee-deep and deeper, stopping for no obstacle, halting for
            no rest it pressed forward until the sweat ran from every pore, notwithstanding the
            night was cold. This rate of speed was maintained until 9 o'clock, when the command
            arrived at Harrison, twelve miles from Chattanooga, and bivouacked. The men were wet to
            their trunks by plunging into mud holes and wading streams. Their bodies were heated and
            damp with perspiration from their great exertion, and these unfavorable conditions
            caused them to suffer intensely from the cold as soon as the halt was called. In fact,
            they were nearly frozen before fires could be started to warm and dry their clothing.
            But finally the fires burned brightly and the coffee boiled. After supper the fortunate
            ones sat round the bivouac fires, and parched corn and ate it for an hour or so before
            retiring in order to economize their scant supply of rations.
          On the following morning the bugles sounded reveille at 4 o'clock, and the regiment's
            bivouac was soon lit up by the bright fires, and dark forms could be seen flitting here
            and there preparing the morning meal for the various messes. The morning was clear and
            cold. The column set forward at the appointed time. The whole force went forward with
            all the speed possible, and it was maintained until the endurance of all was taxed to
            the uttermost. Many fell behind their comrades. Excellent time was made. An occasional
            halt was allowed for a brief rest, else the speed could not have been so long maintained
            over such roads. A brief halt at noon for dinner revived and refreshed many who would
            otherwise have been unable to keep their place in the column. Bad as the roads were
            General Wood's division covered twenty-four miles during the day. All were tired, stiff,
            and sore when camp was reached. To add to the exhaustion of the men, rails for fuel had
            to be carried a long distance. Weary as they were some of the boys had the pluck to
            gather  in and bring to camp some provender found by the
            wayside. It was needed as they journeyed on their pilgrimage.
          On the following morning, December 1, it was expected to resume the march early, but
            having to cross the Hiwassee river on a boat, Wood's division, at least Beatty's
            brigade, was delayed. The boys remained about the bivouac fires whiling away the time by
            parching corn. The command at this camp drew that which purported to be three days'
            rations of hard bread, sugar and coffee, but the allowance was very scant. The rest
            given by this waiting would have been most gratefully accepted had the men not known
            that they would have to pay for it with the most painful and weary leg service. The
            command crossed the Hiwassee on a boat called the "Paint Rock" between 6 and 9 o'clock
            p. m., and got to camp at 9:30, bivouacking a mile from the river in a thicket of
            brush.
          On the morning of December 2, the command resumed its line of march at daylight, and
            pressed forward as rapidly as the condition of the roads would permit. The roads were
            heavy and the marching extremely slavish. The men became greatly exhausted, many falling
            behind. A half hour halt at noon for dinner refreshed the men and the column pushed
            ahead, passing through Decatur, the county-seat of Meigs county, and bivouacked, having
            marched seventeen miles. The men were aware of the object of the march and the little
            murmuring indulged was not proportionate to the hardships endured.
          Reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock the following morning. The "thin clear notes" of the
            last bugle sounded to waken the weary soldiery had not ceased their echoing when the
            flames of fires began to leap, flicker, and play and throw backward from them the gloom
            of night. Fires speedily sprang up, and the moving torches carried to kindle other more
            distant fires revealed the muffled forms of the more drowsy comrades, the stacked arms,
            the cooking utensils, and the many wild, strange scenes which are common to the bivouac
            of a campaigning force. A bivouac is bizarre at best, but that of a command on a forced
            march is of the rudest  and most grotesque form. Such was
            this morning's bivouac. Many of the boys weary and sleepy as only soldiers can get,
            after hurling some fierce denunciation at the "blasted bugler," slept again after
            reveille. But they had as little time for sleeping as others had for noting the beauty,
            and the picturesqueness of their surroundings. The morning meal was to be prepared and
            eaten; cooking utensils were to be packed for marching; blankets were to be rolled up;
            in short, all those things which are so necessary to the soldier when in camp and so
            cumbersome to him in ranks, were to be arranged that they might least feel the burden.
            These things emphasized themselves on this march as it was not one where "the column
            dragged its slow length along," but a rushing one to succor and to save comrades in
            extremest peril. The command was led by the grandest of all raiders, the gallant and
            matchless Sherman, who marched with unapproachable celerity, and struck, with unerring
            aim, blows that went home to the heart of the Confederacy. Therefore, it was neccessary
            to start in the morning of every day's march in the best possible trim. But the command
            was soon ready, and just at sun-rise the Eighty-sixth filed out from its bivouac on to
            the road. The column set forward at once, halting only for brief rests every three or
            four miles until 1:30 p. m. when, upon reaching Pond Spring, "thirty minutes for dinner"
            was announced. The meal consisted of the conventional hard tack, of which the supply was
            almost exhausted, bacon and coffee. At 2 o'clock the tramp was resumed at the same rapid
            gait as before. On that afternoon's march the men were informed by the officers that
            they would not draw any more rations until they reached Knoxville—not very
            encouraging information to a hungry set of men. About this time the command turned from
            its easterly line of march and bore off nearly due south, crossing a low mountainous
            ridge into a fine open valley. Covering three or four miles after crossing the ridge it
            came to a nice little town called Sweetwater, situated in the valley which is known by
            the same name. Wood's division passed beyond the town one mile and bivouacked on a
            slight elevation of ground in an  open field with a higher
            wooded hill to the southeast and three hundred yards distant. The regiment and most of
            the brigade stacked arms in line with this rise of ground, and its line of battle facing
            southeast.
          With the alacrity which the necessity of fleeting opportunity imposes on the slothful
            and inspires in the more energetic, the men quickly had a snug pile of rails and were
            busily engaged in preparing to make themselves as comfortable for the night as a limited
            "commissary department" would hermit. It was at this Sweetwater camp that a thrilling
            and exciting incident occurred which all who were with the regiment on that march will
            remember. The principal actors were W. W. Barnes and John D. Packer, of Company H. The
            announcement that no more rations would be issued until Knoxville was reached induced
            these two soldiers to sally out of camp on an independent foraging expedition before the
            picket line was established.
          Packer was an original character, the like of which is seldom seen actively engaged in
            the exercise of all of his fully developed powers in the respectable walks of civil
            life. In person he was tall and well proportioned. He was young, active and apparently
            tireless, generally good humored but sometimes irritable, venting his ill-humor on his
            comrades. A natural straggler and forager when on the march, he refused to be confined
            to the ranks, always looking for and scenting plunder. He would pillage on the left
            flank in the morning and bestow his plunder upon his comrades at the noon-halt with
            unrivaled prodigality. He would renew his ravages in the afternoon on the right flank
            despoiling larders, sacking smoke-houses, and devastating barn-yards and poultry roosts,
            bribing messmates to carry the spoils to camp by the prospect of a feast, but guarding
            and hoarding the loot when it once reached the bivouac with a miser's care and
            crabbedness, for he had a soldier's stomach and appetite. He had fairly earned his
            various titles of "pot-hound," "jay-hawker," "poacher," and "bummer." As a vigorous
            universal "in gatherer of provender" he would have taken rank with General Dan
            Macauley's famous "pirooter" in his  palmiest days. A lark
            in the morning, a hawk at noon, and an owl at night. He could double discount skunk,
            weasel, and fox combined in catching chickens. He would filch from the dignified country
            gentleman, or his old decrepit African "mamma" with equal indifference. In the very
            wantonness of this "pirooting" spirit, he would steathily abstract the choicest viands
            from the table of the most beautiful and refined lady, who, out of the goodness of her
            heart and in the most gracious manner, had bestowed upon him enough of excellent food to
            satisfy hunger for days all of which he would receive with the greatest humility and
            even servility, or he would rob the half naked, poorly fed pickaninny of its coarest
            corn-dodger and its greasiest "sop" with a nonchalance of manner and buffoonery of
            action which both astonished the beholder and forced him to laugh, in spite of his
            better nature, at the ridiculous conduct. Such was his indifference that it was often a
            question whether it arose from a heart devoid of sympathy or from a lack of
            intelligence.
          In a very few minutes after reaching the place of bivouac they were ready. Barnes took
            nothing but a large butcher knife and Packer his gun and a few cartridges in his pocket.
            Not thinking of the hard march they had made, but anticipating the nice piece of fresh
            Tennessee pork they would bring back to camp, they sallied forth in high hopes. Glancing
            up at the sun to calculate the time at their disposal they sped away at a rapid pace.
            Barnes with his quick, strong, sweeping stride in the lead, followed by Packer with his
            gun on his shoulder and with a quick, jerking step and his hat cocked over his eyes.
            "You may go ahead now, pardner, but I'm chief of this expedition, all the same, and
            don't you forget," and so he swaggered on. They had passed out into a lane that ran
            along the right of the regiment as it lay in bivouac, and were rapidly nearing the woods
            on the hillside, when a shot was heard, and some one remarked: "Why, the boys soon found
            a hog." Barnes, too, at this time remarked to Packer, "We'll have to hurry up, John,
            some one is ahead of us," and they pressed forward with still greater alacrity.  Somebody was ahead of them, sure enough,
            but they were not hunting hogs. The boys were now drawing quite near the woods and were
            somewhat startled to hear the challenge thundered close to them in rather more than
            ordinary military sternness, "Halt, you blank Yankee blank of blank," and with the word
            two mounted rebel cavalrymen rode down the hill, out of the woods, almost upon the boys,
            and opened a brisk fire upon them from their revolvers and carbines. It looked like
            certain death for both of the blue-coats right in the face of the whole division. Pop,
            pop, went their revolvers, szip, szip, came the balls. Barnes had no gun and
            consequently at that distance had no means of either attack or defense, and, of course
            limbered to the rear at once at a more rapid pace than he had gone forward. Pop, pop,
            went the carbines. He came down the lane as he had gone out in the advance of the column
            of two. Pop, pop, went the carbines, szip, szip, came the balls. The boys came flying
            down the lane. Pop, pop, went the carbines, szip, szip, came the the balls in close
            proximity to their ears, and tired legs could not carry them half fast enough. The balls
            hissed spitefully and unpleasantly near the boys as they came rushing down the lane.
            Packer kept Barnes close company for perhaps half the distance to the bivouac, then
            taking shelter in a fence corner returned the bushwhackers' fire. Not knowing but that
            these daring fellows were the skirmishers or scouts of a strong cavalry force near at
            hand, Colonel Dick ordered the regiment to stand to arms, and at the same time ordered a
            company to be thrown forward and deployed as skirmishers. The company at once opened
            fire on the valorous enemy to develop his strength. But it proved to be just two
            adventurous spirits who saw their chance to have a crack at a "Yank." The skirmishers
            pressing rapidly forward succeeded in killing one of their horses, and as a trophy,
            brought in the saddle; but the men made good their escape by doubling on the remaining
            horse.
          The two would-be foragers came safely to the bivouac. It was really a close call for
            both of them, yet it served as matter for quite a good deal of good humored raillery
            among  the comrades for some days. Soon the report came
            back from the skirmish line that no enemy was in sight and the regiment again broke
            ranks and proceeded with the preparations for the night's bivouac. The menu was
            exceedingly scant. There was no savory smell of fresh pork, only a very small supply of
            hard tack, parched corn, and coffee.
          Reveille was sounded next morning, the 4th, at the usual hour, 4 o'clock, and the
            Eighty-sixth filed out upon the road in the advance of the brigade at sunrise. The
            column started out on the road to Loudon. Details of foragers were made from all the
            regiments to secure supplies of provisions. The Eighty-sixth's foragers having to travel
            over the same ground passed over by the foragers of the two brigades in advance had but
            little success in getting supplies without traveling great distances on the flank, which
            at the rate of speed the column was moving they could not easily do. This placed them at
            a great disadvantage and the men were consequently extremely scarce of anything to eat.
            Still the foragers, detailed and independent, came not to camp entirely empty handed. A
            noon halt was made for dinner and the march then continued. The brigade bivouacked
            between 3 and 4 o'clock in the afternoon, the Eighty-sixth being detailed for
            picket.
          Notwithstanding the boys had been notified that they would not receive any more rations
            until they reached Knoxville, on the morning of the 5th an issue was made to the
            command. The allowance was very scant and required more care and time to divide and
            distribute than if the supply had been more plentiful. About 7 o'clock a. m. the march
            was resumed. Arriving at the Little Tennessee river there was delay on account of the
            bridge being broken. The command remained here until about noon and got dinner before
            crossing the river. The crossing was made at Morgantown. The column was rushed forward
            as though it was going all the way that afternoon—almost on the run with very few
            rests. The command was strung out upon the road and badly scattered. This pace was
            maintained for hours. The men who got behind their commands knew it was impossible to
            catch  up and therefore took things easy. Many of them
            began foraging, raking in without mercy everything edible. The command bivouacked about
            10 o'clock p. m. The men who had kept their places in the ranks were almost completely
            exhausted. Leg weary and footsore many threw themselves down to sleep without awaiting
            to prepare their usual cup of coffee. It was a desperate push and the men would have
            been more than human if they had uttered no protest against the unexampled exertions
            they had been required to make on this occasion. It fell with particular force upon the
            Eighty-sixth on account of its vigil while on picket the previous night. The distance
            marched that day was eighteen miles.
          On the following morning reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock and the regiment breakfasted
            almost entirely on forage provisions, save good old government coffee. Its place could
            not be supplied by any article which could be foraged, though the men were compelled to
            use it sparingly on account of its scarcity. The command resumed the route step about
            daylight and speedily covered three miles and arrived at Maryville, the county seat of
            Blount county. Here the command rested for a short time. A part of Sherman's troops, of
            the Army of the Tennessee, were here also. After leaving Maryville the regiment
            proceeded at a rapid pace and reeled off about five miles without a halt. Passing
            through a small place called Springfield it reached a stream known as Little river. Here
            the men were informed that they would remain an hour or two and possibly all night.
          During the afternoon flour was issued to the regiment—about a tablespoonful and a
            half to the man. But to encourage the men they were informed that both flour and meat
            would be issued some time during the night. About sundown a few potatoes were issued,
            and so far as they went, were very acceptable. The day had been fine and was quite
            comfortable and agreeable in that respect, but as the men could not live on fine weather
            it did not satisfy or compensate them for. their lack of rations. The command was
            getting farther and farther from its base of supplies, and consequently  the difficulty of supplying it with rations greatly
            increased. The single line of railroad to Chattanooga was barely sufficient to supply
            the troops there and along the line. Now, if the Army of the Ohio and the Fourth corps
            had to be supplied from there and depend upon one or two small boats to convey the
            supplies up the river to Knoxville with what their small wagon train could haul over
            such villainous roads, the outlook for the winter was not particularly bright.
            Consequently the troops must, under the circumstances and conditions, often be
            destitute, or live off the country. The latter alternative was far from encouraging, as
            the rebel army had already pretty effectually collected the surplus for its subsistence.
            This rendered the situation more alarming than it otherwise would have been. The command
            bivouacked here on the night of the 6th.
          On the morning of the 7th reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock, and the orders were to
            march at 7 a. m., but the Eighty-sixth with the Third brigade did not start until 8:30.
            They marched about a mile and came to the place of crossing Little river, and were
            delayed for some time. The place of crossing was at Rockford, a small village ten miles
            from Knoxville. When the brigade was across the stream the column marched at a rapid
            rate, at least, wherever the roads would permit a show of speed, but as the roads were
            muddy and the country broken and hilly, great speed was out of the question. Dragging
            through the mud up and down hill was very tiresome, and as many were destitute of bread,
            and no halts were called which would enable them to bake, they became weak and
            exhausted. The halts were few and brief, and there was a very tired and an extremely
            hungry command when the Third brigade of Wood's division bivouacked on the evening of
            the 6th of December—about sundown in the edge of a strip of timber not far from
            the Holston river, two miles south of the city of Knoxville. The goal was reached. The
            prize was won. The city was saved and the imperiled army succored. Gen. Longstreet on
            hearing of the advance of the forces of Sherman assaulted Burnside's works—Fort
            Sanders—attempting to overpower him before the rescuing  column could get within striking distance. The assault was made just at
            daybreak on the morning of the 29th of November, and was of the most determined and
            desperate character, but was handsomely repulsed. Longstreet lingered a few days about
            the city's works and drew away on the 4th of December, retiring toward Virginia.
          The steady tramp of Sherman's column was inexorable as fate, and Longstreet, cool and
            daring as he was, knew it was worse than useless to face and contend
            with both Sher- and Burnside. He gave up the struggle, but for the Fourth corps it was
            only fairly begun. It was true the forced march for the rescue was over. Success had
            crowned the effort after much suffering. But now Sherman was to return to his own
            department, while Wood's and Sheridan's divisions, of the Fourth corps, were to remain
            in the Department of the Ohio, and render Burnside's success secure from future attacks.
            The late perilous situation of his army had been too great for those in authority to be
            willing to again expose it to the risks of such a siege. Therefore, two divisions of the
            Fourth corps were left as reinforcements for the Army of the Ohio upon the request of
            General Burnside.
          The Fourth corps was to remain in East Tennessee—in the Department of the Ohio,
            and endure the hardships of that isolated command. And most of the rank and file always
            contended that Wood's division suffered more than the Army of the Ohio; that being only
            detached troops they did not have the favors extended to them from the commissary
            department which the troops of the department received. Be that as it may, it is certain
            that all suffered great hardships and endured the most severe privations. Perhaps the
            suffering of the troops in East Tennessee during the winter of 1863-64 was the most
            severe of any general body of troops of the Union army during the war, not even
            excepting the siege of Chattanooga. But the men had no thought of these great trials in
            store for them on their arrival at the bivouac on the bank of Holston river opposite
            Knoxville.
          At this camp opposite Knoxville, the Eighty-sixth made its first batch of flapjacks out
            of that abominable stuff known  in East Tennessee as "sick
            flour." It would be futile to attempt to describe the sensations one experiences from
            eating it. Ipecacuanha, or lobelia, is not more sickening. The suffering one endures
            from it is of the depressing and nauseating character with various extras thrown in. The
            regiment had a good supply of rails and only lacked in rations to be reasonably
            comfortable when the first supply of this flour was procured. The men were delighted and
            expected to live well so long as the flour lasted. All were soon busily engaged baking
            flapjacks, and there was not a great deal of ceremony wasted until they were disposed
            of, for the time being at least, but it did not prove to be the final disposition. Soon
            the fun began, if fun it may be called. First the saliva began to flow, then the stomach
            began to have its misgivings, then rebellion and tumult became evident and the poor
            weakened stomach insisted on throwing off the vile mixture. It was soon very evident
            that these stomachs did not propose to be imposed upon in any such a manner. Their
            function was to digest food and this was no food, but a poison. In fact, many of the
            boys imagined that some rebel fiend had actually attempted to poison them by poisoning
            the flour, and concluded that in his efforts to poison a whole army he had mixed the
            poison with so much flour that it was so divided up until each one only got enough to
            sicken and disquiet him instead of enough to kill as was intended. But it certainly
            would have been laughable to a person not interested to have watched one who had eaten
            heartily of these flapjacks. First, he would be a little uneasy and restless. If sitting
            by the fire he would change his position frequently, probably get up and stand by the
            fire, turning a few times this way or that as if he were undecided as to the position he
            wished to assume for comfort But the decision was. soon made. He would battle against
            fate and strive at first to control the internal commotion and put the rebellion down.
            That was what he had enlisted for. But the tenacious, stringy saliva would soon begin to
            flow in unmistakable ropes from the unwilling mouth. The sufferer would turn deathly
            pale, take a few quick steps away from the 
            campfire—a sudden upheaval from the stomach, a volcanic eruption, minus the fire,
            and the climax was reached. It was a topsy-turvy, side splitting effort made to empty
            the stomach, and it was usually quite effectual. It was to the hungry soldiery a
            calamity. They were lanker than hounds and there lay their flapjacks on the ground with
            no other provisions in sight except this same "sick flour."
          There were a few men with cast iron stomachs who did not at first get sick, and these
            guyed, in a most unmerciful manner, those who complained of this sickening stuff. These
            cast iron fellows accused the sick ones of making gluttons of themselves, averring that
            their sickness was not on account of the bad qualities of the flour but owing solely to
            their excessive indulgence, and it was therefore merely a just punishment which they
            richly deserved. However, sooner or later even these cast iron fellows had to succumb to
            its overpowering qualities and acknowledge the potency of its debilitating influence.
            Sometimes it did not vomit, but sickened, and caused, an obstinate and debilitating
            diarrhea that had a strong tendency to assume the form of dysentery. It produced the
            severe headache which usually accompanies indigestion and also the general malaise. Of
            course as one might suppose the symptoms of an acute attack of indigestion were present
            and even exaggerated. But the men were not long in learning the nature of their ailment.
            Yet when they came to know its nature very well, as an old and familiar acquaintance, a
            thing indigenous to this locality, while they remained in this department they were
            often compelled to use it, notwithstanding they knew at the time they were ingesting
            pain and sickness, and perhaps untold misery. It is probable that this "sick flour" was
            responsible for the loss of more than one life to the Union cause. Frequently, however,
            it was Hobson's choice, that or nothing, and sickness although painful and extremely
            annoying was preferable to starvation. So the men ate to live, although they were sick
            unto death always after eating it. This was a case equal to eating the first army
            blanket at Camp Tippecanoe. "Sick, flour" was not only an unsubstantial diet, but a most
               distressing one. There was no way of testing the flour
            but by eating it. It was indeed a sore and heavy trial to weary, hungry men.
        
        
          CHAPTER XIX.  KNOXVILLE AND BEYOND.
          Blain's Cross Roads—House Mountain—Lye Hominy—Parched Corn—A
            Bleak December—Gaunt Hunger, Rags and Icy Winter Go Hand and Hand—Christmas
            Thoughts—That Cold New Years—A Mail From Home—Strawberry
            Plains—To Dandridge and Back—A Second Valley Forge.
          The Eighty-sixth remained in camp near Knoxville until the 16th of December, performing
            the various duties incident to camp-life. The supply of rations continued extremely
            meager. Meat principally consisted of mutton, but occasionally the boys had a little
            poor beef. For bread-stuff sometimes they had a little meal, and it was very little, and
            occasionally they had the "sick flour," The price of all kinds of provisions was very
            high. A very dark and poor quality of sorghum molasses was readily sold at 25 cents a
            pint or $2 per gallon. There was no grumbling at prices when anything to eat could be
            purchased. The men were frequently out of bread, and then they would forage corn, and
            parched and ate it to appease hunger. In fact, parched corn was about one-half of the
            Eighty-sixth's living during the entire winter. On the 14th appearances indicated that
            the regiment would remain at this camp for some time, and the men, therefore, set about
            to make themselves more comfortable. Huts sprang up everywhere, covered with shelter
            tents. From a brick kiln near by bricks were procured to construct chimneys, and the
            camp of the Eighty-sixth at once swarmed with carriers of brick, mixers of mortar, and
            brick-layers. The walls and the chimneys grew apace and it soon looked like a city
            springing up as if by magic. Although it was  hard work,
            yet all exerted themselves as faithfully as beavers. The work was continued on the 15th.
            Hard work and scant rations did not harmonize well together. It was on this day that
            Captain C. P. Rodman made glad the hearts of Company H by buying a dressed hog of an old
            Tennessee farmer who was taking it to the city for sale, paying at the rate of 12 cents
            per pound. The work on the shanties was pushed forward with great vigor. The toilers
            were weary and their labors were almost completed when orders were received for the
            command to march immediately. The afternoon was at least half gone. The regiment was
            soon ready, fell into line, stacked arms and waited further orders. About sun-down word
            was received that it would remain in its present camp over night. This gave the men one
            night in their log-houses with brick chimneys which they had labored so hard to build.
            It seemed the fate of the private soldiers that if they undertook any improvements for
            their own comforts, just about the time they neared completion and the men almost
            exhausted with their toil, the orders would come to march.
          On the following morning, the 16th, reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock. The regiment was
            up promptly, breakfasted and packed up ready for the tramp. Before marching the men drew
            ammunition to complete sixty rounds. The Eighty-sixth filed out at 6 o'clock a. m. and
            took its course toward the Holston. The command was delayed at the river waiting for
            other troops to cross. After crossing it marched through the city, turning east on its
            streets, and proceeded up along the general course of the Holston river. The march was
            steadily maintained, few stops for rest being made. After noon a halt for dinner was
            called, but the tramp was soon resumed and at a rapid pace. Rumors in ranks were current
            of fighting at the front farther up the country than the day's march. These rumors were
            various and conflicting, so little dependence could be placed in them. The Third brigade
            bivouacked about sun-down on a hill somewhere near half-way between Strawberry Plains
            and House Mountain. The day's march was a hard one, covering, as General Wood said,
            about twenty-one and a half miles, and this, too, over very muddy  and heavy roads. The camp was in the timber, consequently fuel was plenty
            and the boys soon had good fires. This camp was sometimes denominated Camp on Flat
            Creek, and sometimes Camp near Blain's Cross Roads, or near House Mountain. It was two
            or three miles from the mountain, and about two miles from the Cross Roads.
          At this camp the regiment remained until the 14th of the following January. Life here
            was one continual round of duty and struggle for subsistence, and in procuring fuel to
            make fires to keep from freezing. The first night here the men slept without tents and a
            terrific rainstorm drenched everybody from head to foot. It turned cold and all were
            nearly frozen before morning. Thus the changes and vicissitudes of inclement weather
            were added to the suffering from hunger, testing the fortitude of the most resolute. At
            this camp was one of their hardest times for rations of the regiment's entire' term of
            service. Directly after its arrival the rations were exhausted and the men had nothing
            but parched corn, and not enough of that at times. Lye hominy was made by boiling the
            corn and the ashes together in a camp-kettle. After the supply of hominy failed, the men
            had more "sick flour." Then a mixture of flour and meal, a half-pound to the man as a
            daily ration, presumably mixed by the commissary with the hope that the meal would
            prevent the flour from making them sick. Gradually rations grew more scare and the men
            had in a great measure to depend upon themselves. Many of the regiment, almost every
            mess, went to the Holston river, obtained boats, crossed the stream with ice running
            dangerously thick, and went miles beyond, procured corn and carried it on their backs,
            recrossed, and returned to camp that they and their comrades should not suffer the pangs
            of starvation. Sometimes a little meat could be foraged, but it was rare. The beef
            issued was of the poorest conceivable quality. General Jacob D. Cox in his history of
            the Atlanta Campaign, speaking of the destitution of the army in East Tennessee during
            the winter of 1863-64, says: "The country was stripped bare, and during the month of
            January the cattle that were turned over to  the troops
            for beef were so poor they could hardly stand up. It is literally true that it was the
            custom of the commissaries to drive the cattle over a little ditch in the field where
            they were corralled, and those only were killed which could not get over, their weakness
            proving that it would not do to keep them longer, whilst the others might last for
            future use. Indian corn was ground up, cob and all for bread. Bran and shorts were
            diligently hunted and used for the same purpose. The country was scoured for subsistence
            stores." This statement would show the destitution of the army to have been extreme, but
            the actual condition was even worse than this portrayal would indicate. Of the beef
            cattle of the division many were killed that were so poor that they had to be lifted up
            to be knocked down. Strange and improbable as this statement may seem to those
            unaccustomed to army life, yet it is a fact, and one not hard to explain. These cattle
            had to be driven on foot with the army and as the country was almost stripped of all
            kinds of forage for the horses and mules, the cattle ate only that which they could pick
            by grazing and browsing, and in the cold and storm of an extremely inclement winter, one
            can easily comprehend how poor and weak they would become. The butchers always killed
            the poorest, as they were no longer able to move and keep pace with the column in case
            the command had to march. The stronger ones were saved, as General Cox says, for future
            use. They would probably be sufficiently strong to move with the troops if not hurried.
            The poorest would get down and were unable by their own strength to get up. After they
            had lain there any length of time it would be necessary, for obvious reasons, to move
            them before butchering. Consequently the butchers would help them up, move them off to a
            more desirable place, knock them down and dress them. How would the fastidious palate of
            to-day like such beef? The meat was so poor and gluey that had a piece of it been thrown
            against a brick-wall or a beech tree it certainly would have adhered to it. But mark now
            the destitution of the men. Often would soldiers gladly pay one dollar a piece for the
            head of such a beef.  Sometimes they would get the head
            and the melt for one dollar, but usually only the head. The head would be cleaned, the
            eyes taken out and then the whole head boiled in a camp kettle, and the bones picked
            clean of every fibre of meat. Thus did the Eighty-sixth subsist, suffer and endure,
            almost without a murmur, during this dreadful winter. Sometimes indeed the men did not
            have even the poor beef's head to pick, or corn to parch. Once while the men were out of
            meat the Holston river ran so high and full of ice that none ventured to cross its angry
            flood, and corn could not be procured on their own side of the river. Once or twice
            while here at this camp the regiment drew some musty, worm-eaten hard tack that was
            almost as villainous as the bread made from the "sick flour." The risk of losing the
            bread was too great to attempt to pick the worms out of it until broken in the coffee.
            The worms that were freed from the cracker by the softening effect of the hot coffee
            would swim on the top. They were scooped out with spoons and then blindly gulped
            down.
          With scarcity of rations there was another trouble almost equally serious during the
            cold weather; namely, the lack of clothing. Many a poor boy could be seen with his
            pantaloons worn out at the knees, and no under-garments, his blouse in rags, his gray
            army shirt in tatters, socks with neither heels nor toes, and shoes almost gone. In such
            weather to which the men were exposed and thus wretchedly clad the suffering was great.
            Many slept on the ground with only their ponchos to protect them from its dampness and
            cold, while for covering they had but a single woolen blanket. It is extremely doubtful
            if the suffering of the patriotic army of Washington at Valley Forge could have exceeded
            the sufferings of the Fourth army corps during the winter spent in East Tennessee! Those
            desperate trials made things look gloomy. It either looked like the government at
            Washington was poverty stricken or was criminally negligent. Yet the men bore up,
            knowing that the cold weather could not last long. Nor did they then as now so fully
            appreciate the tremendous responsibilities resting upon President Lincoln and his
            cabinet in  their efforts to crush the great rebellion,
            nor the almost insurmountable difficulties that had to be met and overcome on every side
            to get supplies, and, at the same time, lay up stores at the base and sub-base for the
            ensuing campaign, the latter being almost equally necessary to that of subsistence
            during the winter. But parched corn seldom failed entirely, although it frequently ran
            low, and it general required herculean exertions to procure corn after the little army
            had remained here two weeks, and had used the corn in the immediate vicinity. Picket
            duty was particularly heavy here, so that the men rarely had more than two days' rest
            off the line at a time. Between picketing, foraging, and procuring fuel they were kept
            quite busy. No doubt there would have been much more discontent and grumbling among the
            troops, if there had been more idleness. But the morale of the Fourth
            army corps was almost perfect, as was proven on all occasions during the winter and
            during the campaign the following summer with Sherman to Atlanta.
          About 2 o'clock p. m, December 24, the Eighty-sixth received orders to be ready for
            picket at 3 o'clock. By 4 o'clock the men of the regiment were on duty on the picket
            line. Such was their promptness under the most discouraging and trying circumstances.
            Colonel Dick, the very soul of promptness himself, never tolerated any dilly-dallying
            when the time came for the performance of duy, and the regiment had learned to act
            without a second command. No difference what difficulties confronted it, its every duty
            was performed with promptness and alacrity suited to the occasion. But once arrived at
            the picket-station the men had to supply themselves with fuel at the station and at the
            outposts, as the extreme cold made fires an imperative necessity. The chilly winds of
            that "bleak December day" went to the marrow through their rags. Labor, poorly clad,
            cold and hunger, with the vigils of guard duty, made the situation an extremely trying
            one. This Christmas eve brought no gayeties for the men of the Eighty-sixth. How many
            poor fellows on this occasion longed for the pleasures at home, the greeting and smiles
            of loved ones, the tender caresses of  parents, of
            brothers and sisters, the kind good nights, each face beaming with the anticipated joys
            of the morrow's glad surprises for the dear one gathered round the hearth-stone of the
            far away but ever dear Northern home, where at their mother's knee long ago they learned
            the lessons of love and duty, as she plied the nimble needle and made "old clothes look
            maist as weal's the new," to give to each other tokens of pure affection on the annual
            return of this day. But alas! the cruel breath of war blew over the land and separation
            from home, kindred, and friends became a duty not to be shirked—a call not to be
            denied, however bitter the anguish of the separation. The former joys of the day's
            annual return were not now to be enjoyed, and the thoughts of those bygone days and
            their happiness, brought only pain and distress. The brave sentinel, as he paces his
            lonely beat, may think of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the Prince of Peace, of
            His goodness and mercy, but this does not wholly assuage his grief at the cruel
            disappointments he is made to feel just at this time, when his hard life seems to be
            crushing every particle of joyousness out of his nature. But the true soldier, after
            thinking over these things, the thought comes to him: it is for country, for home and
            kindred, that I am battling. What infinite good may be reaped from the harvest of the
            seed of self-abnegation sown by the fearless hand of a true man, and dashing a tear from
            his young, clear, manly eye he straightens himself up and looks the conqueror that he
            is. He has conquered self—a prime element to a perfect soldier. He now paces his
            beat with the steadiness of tread and the martial air of a veteran of years of training.
            He has put all else behind him but the cause he has espoused. He has in this solitary
            manner renewed and reaffirmed his covenant in his innermost soul to stand by and support
            his comrades, uphold the "colors," and reaffirmed his allegiance to the cause of
            country, duty and the right. The sacrificial offering is now complete. None may know the
            sacrifices of a soldier's life who have not abode for a time upon the tented field, and
            been exposed to the extremes of winter's cold and summer's heat, and met the desperate
            foe upon the  ensanguined plain where the embattled hosts
            have striven in charge and counter-charge. Nor is it supposed, that now with so many
            years intervening, that one in a thousand of the veterans of '62 and '65 can fully
            recall all the terrible vicissitudes of those break, chilly days of that cheerless
            December time. Much has been forgotten of the anguish suffered from the pinching cold,
            the pangs of semi-starvation and of exhausting labors to procure fuel and food. It is
            only when a number of "the boys" congregate and hold communion in the spirit of old
            times that suggestion plays it full part, that an approach in imagination to the reality
            of those dreadful times can be made. This was one of the darkest periods of the
            regiment's service—about the holidays—at the close of 1863 and the incoming
            of 1864. The gloom that hung over the regiment immediately after the battle of Stone's
            River, where it was almost annihilated, may only be allowed to have been greater than
            that at the camp at Blain's Cross Roads. But the men bore up better at the latter place.
            They seemed to be actuated by the motive 
                "As Christ died to make men holy
                Let us die to make men free."
              
          
          This may not have been the sentiment of every private soldier and officer of the
            Eighty-sixth, but it was what they were virtually offering to do by serving in the army
            at that time. Many claimed that they only fought to maintain the country's unity and the
            constitution as it was, but President Lincoln has said, with that prescience for which
            he was so remarkable: "This country cannot endure part slave and part free." It was for
            the freedom of the slaves they fought, thus making possible the unity of the
            country—all free. It is doubtful if such thoughts entered the minds of many of the
            rank and file of the Eighty-sixth on Christmas morning, 1863, when first aroused from
            their slumbers. The conditions and circumstances of their environment claimed most of
            their thoughts rather than the wider field relative to the general purposes and causes
            of the war. That environment was not a joyous one. No glad shouting of merry children,
            no cheerful greetings and the wishing for each other "A 
            Merry Christmas." The spiritual barometer was too low for this. But the stern command of
            officers broke the slumbers, for they had slept soundly even if it was Christmas
            morning. Their commands were: "Prepare to go on out-post," and, "Prepare to go on the
            line immediately." This was the Christmas greetings. And in the gray of the cold bleak
            morning the Eighty-sixth went on the line and gazed upon the rugged heights of House
            Mountain as the darkness disappeared. The Christmas dinner of 1863, for the most part in
            the Eighty-sixth, consisted of a small piece of corn bread made of unsifted meal, mixed
            with water and a very little salt, and baked or fried in the irrepressive army
            frying-pan, and a small bit of third or fourth grade army bacon. It is hardly necessary
            to say that it was not a banquet or a feast. Turkey, cranberry-sauce, or scalloped
            oysters could not be indulged in.
          The regiment was relieved about 4 o'clock, by the Nineteenth Ohio, Colonel Manderson,
            and at once marched back to camp. But the labors for the day were not ended. The Colonel
            had determined to move the place of camping and the only suitable place found was almost
            an impenetrable thicket of brush. It was at no time an inviting place for a camp, but at
            this time just coming off of picket, the boys regarded this change as a particular
            hardship. Camp was finally arranged and tents put up. Tired and worn out with guard
            vigils and labor, all felt the need of rest and sleep. The meager suppers of corn bread
            and bacon were soon dispatched and immediately after tattoo the camp of the Eighty-sixth
            was silent as a city of the dead. The flicker of the camp-fires alone redeemed it from
            the gloom of night. But alas! for weary mortality. Some picket firing occurred and the
            regiment was ordered into line of battle, and stood there in the cold for two long
            hours. Tired, sleepy, and half frozen those two hours seemed an eternity. There being no
            other indications of an attack the men were at length permitted to break ranks and lie
            down. This was Christmas for the Eighty-sixth.
          Never will it be forgotten by the members of the Eighty-sixth  so long as life and memory shall last. After being permitted to retire to
            rest the men slept undisturbed for some time when one of the tents of Company H caught
            fire. This aroused the inmates who at once raised an alarm which awakened others of the
            company and regiment. The spirit of Christmas, of fun and frolic, took hold of all for a
            short time, and the camp of the Eighty-sixth became a perfect bedlam beyond all
            description. Cat-calls, yells and camp slang made it an uproarious time for the space of
            fifteen or twenty minutes when nature again asserted herself and all returned to bed to
            secure the much needed rest.
          The men were again out of rations and drew for bread-stuff on the 26th a miserable lot
            of flour. It was alive with worms, and it is quite safe to say that the picking of worms
            out of that flour was the business of at least one man in each mess of the entire
            regiment until all were tired. The flour proved to be not only wormy but "sick" and was
            an abomition to any half civilized stomach. The filthy pools of stagnant, green-scummed
            and rank water of Kentucky, in which decaying mules festered and rotted in the sunshine,
            were not more trying to the stomach than this despicable, maggotty, "sick flour," loaded
            with other nauseating and poisonous qualities, which every soldier well knew were quite
            sufficient to make him a fit subject for the hospital.
          After foregoing the pleasure of a mail for nearly a month the Eighty-sixth received a
            large one on the 29th of December. Many hearts were made glad by the perusal of missives
            from the dear ones at home. When it was announced that the mail had arrived the entire
            regiment took on a new life. How welcome was a letter from home to the soldier, and how
            sad he felt when those at home neglected to write. The differences on the countenances
            of those who received and those who did not were particularly noted on the arrival of
            this mail, so long had it been since one had been received. The features of the one lit
            up with pleasure, as he perused the epistle in his hand—doubtless the letter of
            some dear wife or mother, or may be sweetheart—and as he read it, a smile of joy
            illumined his weather-beaten face. This was  happiness. It
            was an oasis on the desert of his rough life of danger and suffering. With the other the
            opposite effect was observed; as soon as the word "none" had passed the lip of the
            regimental postmaster the look of anxiety faded away, and an appearance of extreme
            sorrow could be seen plainly stamped on his features, while a feeling of envy at his
            more fortunate comrades was plainly apparent. This was unhappiness. The song of hope
            that had illumined his heart when he inquired if there was any letter for him had died
            away, and a feeling of loneliness and regret of the neglect of those at home took
            possession of him. Happy were they who had homes and loved ones to hear from!
          Next to the scarcity of rations the hardships incident to being poorly clad during the
            extreme cold weather were most severely felt. It was often so cold that when attempting
            to write letters or make entries in diaries the ink would freeze on the pens. It would
            often be necessary to heat the pen and write as rapidly as possible until it cooled off.
            Another plan was to sit near the camp-fire, which was usually a veritable log-heap, and
            roast one's-self while writing, placing the ink bottle in the hot ashes. The men would
            sit up late at night roasting themselves around the fires—roasting one side while
            the other was almost frozen. A few brief hours' exposure to cold in civil life is
            sometimes thought to be quite a hardship, but when it comes to suffering from morning
            until night, and from night until morning, day in and day out, week in and week out, the
            suffering is real and almost unendurable, and one returns to the child's philosophy and
            wonders "where all the cold comes from." Lying down at night somewhat warmed, at least
            partially thawed out, by the great fires in front of his tent, the soldier would sleep
            soundly for a time. At length the fire would burn low and the cold would begin to
            assert. Then he would awaken with benumbed and aching toes, stirring up the fire he
            would "thaw out" his pedal appendages and return to his couch of leaves, straw or the
            cold ground, curl up "spoon" fashion with his bunkmate for another brief nap. Thus did
            the soldiers sleep and rest. This is not the history of sieges or  gory fields of glory, or even important military movements, but it was the
            actual life of the Eighty-sixth while at Blain's Cross Roads.
          General Cox in his history of the Atlanta Campaign, speaking of the incoming year 1864,
            says: "The new year opened with a furious gale and icy storm, which came as a cyclone
            from the northwest, reducing the temperature suddenly below zero. The half-naked
            soldiers hovered around their camp-fires, some without coats, some without pantaloons,
            some with tattered blankets tied like petticoats about their waists." This is a fair
            statement so far as it goes as to the ill condition of the clothing of the troops, but
            it is in part misleading. The account is only half told. The soldiers could not "hover
            around the camp-fires" until the campfires were built. Wood had to be chopped and
            carried up, and the chopper and carriers, although half-naked, could not hover about the
            fire. Provisions had to be secured and the foragers could not "hover about the fire,"
            nor the lone picket far away from the fire on the bare bleak hillside with his faithful
            Enfield ever in hand—he most of all suffered in this terrific blizzard. The like
            was never before known in Tennessee. It was indeed a pitiable time, for the men in
            ranks. New Year's day, 1864, is yet known all over the Northwest as "the cold New
            Years."
          As early as December 14, Dr. W. W. Blair, Medical Director of the Third division,
            Fourth corps, made a personal inspection of the men in this command. He reported to
            General Wood that he found them exceedingly destitute of clothing. He said that the
            entire outfit of many soldiers consisted of a blouse, worn as a shirt, a pair of pants
            well worn, a pair of shoes, and in some instances not even those, an oil or woolen
            blanket, and a hat or cap. As one of the results of this exposure, he found the men
            attacked with rheumatism, with diarrhœa, and with fever of a typhoid character. General
            Wood thereupon addressed a communication to General Granger, commanding the Fourth
            corps, enclosing Surgeon Blair's report, who referred it to the commanding general of
            the department with his approval endorsed.  General Wood
            in the course of his communication said: "It is very evident from Surgeon Blair's report
            that, if the command be left much longer in its present exposed, unprotected, and
            unprovided condition, the ordinary military commanders will be relieved soon of further
            care of very many of the men, as they will have been placed by Generals Rheumatism,
            Diarrhœa, Pneumonia, and Typhoid Fever beyond the reach of further human care. The
            Second and Third divisions have not been supplied with clothing since the march from
            Middle Tennessee in August last. After fighting a great battle, we were hurried off to
            the relief of the beleaguered garrison at Knoxville. We came cheerfully and with
            alacrity, not only as a matter of duty, but as a work of love. But the siege having been
            raised, and it being apparent that further active operations in this field for some time
            to come are impossible, we ask now that immediate and effective measures be taken to
            supply our wants." General Wood went on to say that the men were not only destitute of
            clothing, but men and officers were suffering for want of sufficient protection in
            tents. He thought the only effectual remedy was to be permitted to return to Chattanooga
            where the officers and men had left their baggage and shelter. But the appeals of
            Generals Wood and Granger were in vain, and the two divisions of the Fourth corps
            remained in East Tennessee during the entire winter. Deplorable as was the condition of
            the command in the middle of December it became lamentably wretched as the days wore
            on.
          On January 13, orders were received that the command would march on the following
            morning at 7 o'clock. The work of preparation commenced at once. The corn bread had to
            be baked that the men might have bread while on the march. In this way they came to more
            fully appreciate the hard tack which was at first so bitterly denounced. It required no
            baking or preparation when other duties required their attention, but like the true
            soldier in ranks it was always ready at a moment's notice. The "general call" was
            sounded by the brigade bugler about 6:30 a. m. on the morning of the 14th, and the Third
            brigade filed out upon the  road to Strawberry Plains at 7
            o'clock. It crossed the Holston river at the Plains and proceeded in a southeasterly
            direction. The weather was warmer than the first few days of the month and the roads had
            thawed out and were exceedingly muddy, consequently all who were on foot were very much
            fatigued before the night's bivouac was reached. The command covered fourteen or fifteen
            miles, notwithstanding the very bad condition of the roads and the delay caused in
            crossing the river. On the morning of the 15th there was but little to eat in the camp
            of the Eighty-sixth, except mutton and parched corn. These articles with a little coffee
            made the meal for about one-half of the regiment. Many had less, and a few fortunate
            foragers, perhaps had more. The column resumed the march about 7 o'clock, the
            Eighty-sixth having the advance of the brigade. After covering eight miles with one
            brief halt for a rest, the brigade arrived within about a mile of the town of Dandridge
            and bivouacked in the woods along side the road. The advance guards had driven the enemy
            out of the town. Dandridge is the county-seat of Jefferson county, located on the French
            Broad river, thirty-two miles east of Knoxville. Before the breaking out of the war it
            contained about 1,500 inhabitants.
          Foragers were detailed and sent out immediately to procure provisions, as the regiment
            was almost destitute. The foragers brought in fresh pork, chickens, geese, ducks, corn
            and whatever would sustain life. The products of the country were not plentiful and some
            ventursome expeditions were made, especially as it was known that the enemy was hovering
            near. On the 16th many of the boys had sallied forth in every direction to replenish
            their stores, when cannonading opened in the direction of camp which brought them in at
            a lively speed. The progress they made did the command full credit, as it was then known
            as "Wood's Greyhounds." Musketry became quite lively, and the men fully expected to be
            ordered out upon the battle line. Just after noon the regiment was ordered into line and
            held in readiness for attack or defense at a moment's notice. The fighting continued
            throughout the afternoon and far into the night, but the 
            Eighty-sixth was not needed. Late in the evening a small supply of clothing was issued
            to the most needy.
          On the morning of the 17th the regiment was ordered into line of battle very early and
            held thus for some time as a precautionary measure, but as there were no indications of
            an advance by the enemy the men were permitted at length to break ranks and get
            breakfast. Early in the forenoon the regiment received orders for picket duty, but in a
            short time this was varied to orders to be ready to march at a moment's notice.
            Everything was packed in short time. The men remained at the bivouac, lounged about the
            campfires and discussed the situation of affairs here and the probability of a battle
            being fought at this time. No attack was made until about 3 o'clock in the afternoon,
            when cannonading and musketry fire both opened up in a brisk manner. The men momentarily
            expected to be called upon to go and repel the attack, but no call came until about
            dusk. The regiment marched out about a quarter of a mile from camp and there held in
            readiness for two hours, waiting the development of the enemy's plan of operations. It
            then marched back to its bivouac. Orders were given to march. The men sat round the
            camp-fires chatting, a few falling asleep in a half-reclining posture against stumps,
            trees, or piles of wood. Others threw themselves upon the ground and slept soundly,
            while many did not shut their eyes. About 3 o'clock on the morning of the 18th the men
            were ordered to "fall in." The regiment took arms at once and marched slowly out in the
            direction of Strawberry Plains. The night was cold, the ground was frozen, and in many
            places the road was icy. Here on the icy road the men would slip and slide and sometimes
            fall heavily to the ground, stuggle to their feet and tramp on. Soon after starting the
            men were compelled to wade a stream of water half-leg deep with the water at the
            freezing point. This did not add to their comfort or good humor, but there was no time
            then to build bridges and the Irishman's pontoons were always at hand. But the column
            pressed on. No stop was made until after daylight, when a brief halt was called and the
            command breakfasted. It was  a scant meal for most of the
            rank and file of the Eighty-sixth. Some had corn bread and beef, some had corn bread and
            mutton, some had bread and chicken, and others had chicken without bread, some had bread
            but no meat, and still others had only a little parched corn. The spirits of the men
            were not the best, yet they were not despondent and they kept up well, considering the
            situation. The rest, the meal, and daylight reanimated the command somewhat, and the
            march was resumed in better humor than when the halt was ordered. The men were now
            relieved of the frozen, icy condition of the road, but the mud and water occasioned by
            the thawing was about as bad as the slippery condition of the road when frozen. It soon
            began to rain which down pour continued nearly all day. The men, therefore, only escaped
            from one evil of the road to find themselves confronted by another quite as bad, if not
            worse. The mud grew deeper and deeper, and every step taken was in mud up to shoe-mouth.
            It was utterly useless to try to go round it, or avoid it in any way. Therefore the men
            went "like dumb driven cattle" straight forward, turning neither to the right nor to the
            left, for the mud was everywhere. The day's march was a desperate one, considering the
            condition of the roads. The command reached Strawberry Plains a little after dark,
            having covered during the day's march, as estimated, about twenty-six miles, and that,
            too, over the very worst of roads. Having reached their bivouac, the men had to carry
            rails a long distance-a good half mile-procure water, build fires and get supper before
            resting for the night. It is doubtful if even those who participated in this march can
            at this late day fully comprehend their extreme fatigue and weariness, and the soreness
            of their muscles, when they had cooled off after the march was over. The frugal meal
            dispatched, the men made down their beds for the night. It had again turned cold, and it
            was quite windy and disagreeable and threatened a storm. They turned in early "to sleep,
            perchance to dream" of home and its comforts and its happiness.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XX.  EAST TENNESSEE.
          The Bivouac in the Snow—Back to Maryville—A Laughable
            Incident—General Willich in Temporary Command of the Division—Again on the
            Move—Smoky Hollow—At Knoxville—On to Morristown—Back to New
            Market—Again at Morristown—Strawberry Plains—Off to Rutledge-=The
            Clinch Mountains=-A Scouting Expedition-=Bound for Chattanooga-=The Campaign Ended-=At
            McDonald Station.
          The morning of the 19th dawned, but it was a rude awakening for the soldier, tired in
            every limb and muscle, stiff in every joint and lank as a fox-hound after a long chase.
            The men had slept soundly, and not a gun or bugle note disturbed their repose. It was a
            January morning long to be remembered by the Eighty-sixth. There lay the command on open
            ground and covered with snow five or six inches deep! The words of Margaret J. Preston
            came vividly to mind: 
                "Halt—the march is over,
                 Day is almost gone;
                Loose the cumbrous knapsack,
                Drop the heavy gun.
                Chilled and wet and weary,
                Wander to and fro.
                Seeking wood to kindle
                Fires amidst the snow.
              
              
                "Round the bright blaze gather.
                Heed not sleet or cold;
                Ye are Spartan soldiers,
                Stout and brave and bold."
              
          The various bunks lay around over the ground like so many logs rolled together and
            buried in the snow. No sign of life revealed itself for some time. First one, and then
            another, would gently lift the blanket covering his head and stretch his neck out like a
            turtle from under his shell, take a brief observation of the appearance of things,  utter some exclamation of surprise, and quickly withdraw
            his astonished countenance from sight. Carefully tucking the blanket around his head, to
            keep the snow from tumbling about his ears, he meditates. But there was work to be done.
            More rails had to be procured for fuel, and it was a particularly unpleasant task for
            weary soldiers to turn out into the snow and trudge a half mile or more. But
            difficulties never vanish by trying to evade them. They must be met and overcome.
            Finally all were up and at work. Here, too, was an occasion where work was a benefit to
            the laborer in and of itself, not that he particularly needed the exercise for the sake
            of exercise, but the work was highly beneficial both for the physical well-being of the
            soldier and for the morale of of the command. At the first look to the
            half-rested, half-starved, poorly clad, sore-legged soldier it was a gloomy morning
            indeed—a disheartening prospect that well-nigh overmastered him. Under such
            depressing conditions and circumstances the renewal of work is the great
            panacea—the one great safeguard, the surest cure, and so it proved with the
            Eighty-sixth. When the effort was made to meet the difficulties, great as they appeared
            to be at first, it was soon seen that they were not insurmountable, and as the blood
            began to flow more freely from exertions put forth, the spiritual barometer began to
            indicate fair weather, figuratively speaking and the gloom began to disappear. The
            morning meal over, the next task was to dry the blankets, put tents and haversacks in
            order to be ready to march. Although the tents were not pitched they were used for a
            covering. Blankets held the more moisture and were the first to receive attention. Fires
            were built and the blankets stretched upright on the muskets as near them as possible.
            By the time the men were ordered to "fall in," which was between 11 and 12 o'clock, they
            had their blankets and tents pretty well dried. The regiment crossed the Holston river
            after some delay, and marched about four miles from the river toward Knoxville and
            bivouacked. The afternoon was cold and windy, being very disagreeable, and the
            indications betokened a stormy and unpleasant night. The men, therefore,  busied themselves in making preparations for the night.
            Sheds, bowers, lean-tos, and, in fact, all kinds of temporary makeshifts for protection
            from the piercing wind and the coming night's cold, were erected. A little flour and
            meal in lieu of bread, and a very scant rations of coffee, sugar, and salt were issued
            at this place. A mail in the evening gladdened the hearts of many.
          On the following day, January 20, the weather moderated and was quite pleasant as the
            day advanced. The troops lay round the bivouac all day until about one hour before
            sun-set, when the "general call" was sounded by the brigage bugler. The command was soon
            marching "route-step" in the direction of Knoxville. The roads were muddy and the
            marching heavy and slavish which made the progress slow. The command covered four or
            five miles and bivouacked about 8 o'clock in a thick woods alongside of the road. Rails
            were procured for fuel and supper prepared. It was both late and light of necessity. On
            the following morning, the 21st, reveille was sounded at 5 o'clock and the men were soon
            busily engaged in baking "flapjacks" or corn bread for the day's rations. These
            constituted a very poor substitute for hard tack when on the march. The command marched
            out a little after sunrise in the direction of Knoxville, passed through the city,
            crossed the Holston river, and went about two miles beyond and bivouacked. On the 22d,
            the regiment remained in bivouac. General John G. Foster, at this time in command of the
            Department of the Ohio, passed the camp on the 22d, doubtlessly, looking out a location
            for the brigade and division. Some teams were sent foraging during the day, and in the
            evening orders were received to be ready to march at 8 o'clock the next morning. It was
            also "grapevined" through camp that the enemy was advancing and was within four or five
            miles. It was not believed.
          Saturday, January 23, the bugles sounded reveille at 6 o'clock. Soon all was bustle and
            hurry. The march was resumed at the hour appointed. The command covered about two miles
            and was halted. A small supply of clothing  was here
            issued to the Eighty-sixth. Many were in great need, and were very glad to get it, as
            all had been more or less destitute ever since being cooped up in Chattanooga by Bragg.
            The needy were now only partially supplied. Many were greatly disappointed in not
            receiving the much needed articles The march was resumed as soon as the clothing was
            distributed. However, the march was not at a rapid rate and the regiment was frequently
            halted for rests. When Little river was reached the command was delayed for some time as
            it had to cross in single file.
          A laughable accident occurred here. The command crossed just above a mill-dam on two
            hewed logs, the ends of which were chained together in the middle of the stream, while
            the other ends were safely anchored to the banks. Of course the force of the current
            carried the ends of the logs in the stream down with it so there was an angle formed in
            the middle of the stream where the water was quite deep, the logs lying almost at right
            angles with one another. Consequently the distance to be traveled in crossing was
            increased and the progress delayed. Besides the logs lay in the water and every step
            taken gave them more or less motion and rendered them not a perfectly sure and stable
            footing to one inclined to be timid. The majority of the Eighty-sixth were becoming
            impatient at the long delay and hurried across as rapidly as possible when their turns
            came—most of them at a brisk trot. When Company H's turn came all were in a hurry
            but one man, Leander W. Friend, known the regiment over as "China," on account of his
            being so fat and "chuffy." As a natural consequence of his superabundance of adipose
            tissue he was as clumsy as a bear. When his turn came, and he was among the first, he
            passed along very slowly and deliberately, notwithstanding the calls of comrades to
            hurry. His best pace was decidedly slow and he was afraid of tumbling into the water and
            being drowned. Just behind him was a comrade of the exact opposite physical make. John
            Worden was one of the quickest, most. active, nervous men in all the regiment. Whatever
            he did, he did with all his might and with lightning like 
            rapidity. "China" waddled along like a fat pig, Worden dancing along behind him on
            nettles, as it were, at his delay, until they reached the angle made by the logs in the
            middle of the stream. Here Worden's impatience would brook no further delay without an
            extra effort on his part, so he made a spring to get ahead of "China" as he turned from
            one log to the other. But the second log being somewhat broader than the first one gave
            "China" more confidence and he quickened his pace and reached the point of Worden's
            landing a second too soon for the latter who only succeeded in striking his more bulky
            and weighty comrade and bounding back into the water. He went down like a shot up to his
            neck. With knapsack, haversack, gun and cartridge-box he was pretty heavily handicapped
            for a struggle in the water, but caught hold of the log quick as a flash and thus saved
            himself until the clumsy "China" very deliberately stooped over and pulled his agile
            comrade out of his ludicrous predicament amid the shouts of laughter of all those who
            witnessed it.
          The Eighty-sixth proceeded about two miles beyond the river, and bivouacked for the
            night on the side of a hill near one of its old camping places as it marched up to
            Knoxville from Chattanooga. The bivouac was located near a grist mill and the traffic
            between the boys and the miller was quick brisk for a time. Many had carried a supply of
            corn all day, others most of the day, in fact, wherever and whenever it could be foraged
            a supply was laid in, and now the supply on hand was traded for meal. Orders were
            received in the evening that the command would march at 7:30 the following morning.
          On the morning of the 24th the column resumed the march at the appointed hour. The pace
            was moderate, with frequent rests, until about 10 o'clock a. m., when the out-skirts of
            Maryville were reached. Here it halted, closed up in mass, and General Willich, then
            temporarily in command of the division, made a short speech in his broken English. He
            said that the Third division, Fourth army corps, was here alone, and that it would be
            compelled to depend upon itself.  He further said that
            there should not be any foraging or scouting, except when ordered. Free and independent
            excursions for any purpose must not be thought of for fear of capture by the enemy's
            cavalry that was continually scouring the country and picking off prowlers who ventured
            away from their commands. His blunt, out-spoken manner, and the peculiar way he had of
            putting things created much merriment and he was greeted with shouts and laughter. This
            speech of the General's greatly amused everybody, and put the rank and file in great
            good humor. His kinds words endeared him to the men, and then he had shown himself so
            considerate of them in his manner directing and conducting the march that all were fully
            convinced that he would do the very best he could for them on all occasions.
          The brigades were assigned their positions by General Willich, and the regiments took
            their respective positions according to the order of the day's march. Immediately after
            dinner the Eighty-sixth began work upon quarters to make themselves comfortable. All
            were busy and more or less successful, so in a comparatively short time the men were
            comfortably cantoned. Most of the bunks of the regiment built shanties and covered them
            with their shelter tents, and constructed fire-places of clay and rock with "stick and
            mud" chimneys. This work, however, created extra keen appetities, and as rations were
            decidedly short many imagined that it was absolutely necessary that they disregard one
            of General Willich's positive commands. Cattle, hogs, chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks,
            corn-pone, corn and potatoes did not come amiss, but there was not a great amount of any
            these productions in the country. Corn was the most plentiful, and with this the men
            generally supplied themselves. This was grated into meal and made into bread without
            sifting. The forms of making bread were numerous. Hoe-cake baked on a board before the
            fire, griddle cake, ash cake, dodger, and corn-pone, were all attempted to give variety
            to the bill-of-fare, and according to the conveniences of the culinary department.
            Occasionally the men would draw a ration of beef "dried on hoof" from the commissary  department, but this was rare. Sometimes a pie could be
            bought. The price for an ordinary Tennessee pie at this time was thirty cents.
          The regiment's military functions consisted of picket duty, which was quite heavy, and
            details for foraging. When not on duty the men employed their time, at first, in fixing
            up and improving the camp, cutting down and leveling up the floors of their shanties,
            ditching them and making their temporary homes more comfortable. They made stools,
            bunks, tables, and many other little conveniences, so at the end of a couple of weeks
            they were quite comfortably situated. After the camp was established, a ball ground was
            laid off, and daily, when the weather was favorable, those not on duty took exercise by
            playing a few games of "town ball." Later on, while here, a violin was procured, and,
            when the evenings were fine, dancing was engaged in. Of course, it was a veritable "stag
            dance." However, it was entered into with great gusto and thoroughly enjoyed.
            Notwithstanding all this, the health of the regiment remained reasonably good. Of course
            some of the weaker ones broke down during this time, and others felt the effects of the
            winter's hardships later.
          About the last of January the other regiments of the brigade went on a scout, and it
            fell on the Eighty-sixth to do the picketing for the entire brigade. This made extra
            duty which kept the men quite busy for some days. But the picketing was not particularly
            disagreeable here, excepting in bad weather. Yet this duty is always unpleasant in
            inclement weather. About the 4th of February, the non-veterans of the Thirteenth Ohio,
            and those of the Fifty-ninth Ohio, came to the Eighty-sixth to remain with it for duty
            while those who re-enlisted went home on their veteran furloughs. Those of the
            Thirteenth had some hard cases among them, and occasionally made trouble for the company
            officers in which they were placed.
          Along about this time, too, the rumors of the enemy's advance, of cavalry fighting at
            Seveirville and to the south of Maryville, about the Chilhowee mountains, began to make
            the  rounds of the camp, and the reports were constantly
            changing from the report of light skirmishing to that of severe fighting, and from that
            again back to unimportant skirmishing. On the 7th of February a cavalry guard conducted
            a small squad of rebel prisoners by the camp of the Eighty-sixth in the direction of
            Knoxville, which confirmed, to a certain extent, the report of some skirmishing, at
            least. About this time, too, orders were given which were a little more strict
            concerning absence from camp and for a closer watch by the pickets. On the 10th orders
            seemed to point to an expected attack. The cavalry videttes, out perhaps five miles,
            were fired upon, and a camp rumor grew in proportion, the "grapevine" worked the more
            rapidly. On the 12th the regiment received the stores which they had packed and sent
            back early in the fall. With these goods were the overcoats of almost every private in
            the regiment. While near Blain's Cross Roads the men sorely needed their overcoats, but
            their wants did not furnish transportation. As badly as the men needed clothing,
            provisions were equally as great a necessity, and the wagon trains had not been able to
            half supply the demand.
          On February 13, a number of disheartened Confederates came in and gave themselves up,
            saying they had enough of war and fighting, and wished to abandon the cause of the
            Confederacy. They were taken care of and sent to Knoxville to take the oath. Generals
            Wood and Willich were both now at home on leaves of absence, and the command of the
            division devolved on General Beatty, and that of the brigade on Colonel Dick. It had
            been raining quite hard and had made the roads very muddy, when on the night of the 15th
            of February the men were aroused by the officers and told to rise immediately, as orders
            had been received to march at once. They arose promptly, struck tents, and packed up.
            This was about 11 o'clock at night. At 2 o'clock a. m. on the 16th, the regiment filed
            out upon the road toward Knoxville, in mud shoe-mouth deep. The marching was slavish and
            the progress slow. Little river was not crossed until afternoon. Pushing ahead rapidly
            for some time good speed was made.  The command was then
            halted to allow the wagon train to take the advance. Once more the men plunged into the
            mud and water and forged ahead as rapidly as possible, but it was slow work. However,
            the command did not halt for bivouac until within about three-fourths of a mile of the
            pontoon bridge crossing the river :at Knoxville. The camping place was reached about 11
            o'clock at night. The regiment bivouacked in a ravine that ran down to the Holston
            river. The night was cold, only a few limbs could be found, although in the woods. This
            was one of the most uncomfortable bivouacs which the regiment had yet occupied. The
            location was not so bad, so much as the inclement weather rendered it disagreeable. On
            the following morning the men arose promptly at reveille, which was sounded at daybreak.
            It was disagreeably cold and the wind whirled in gusts in every direction, and yet there
            was no possible chance to escape from its terrors unless the men left the camp. and took
            their chances of freezing. The men were hungry, cold, and smoked almost blind, and the
            place in rememberance of their misery was denominated "Smoky Hollow." It might have been
            very properly called "Cold-Windy-Starvation-Hollow," to commemorate the trinity of the
            sufferings which the men endured. The regiment remained here from about 11 o'clock on
            the night of the 16th and until about 1 o'clock on the afternoon of the 18th of
            February. There was not a decent looking pair of eyes in the entire regiment when it
            marched out. Had there been a requisition made for a regiment of mourners the
            Eighty-sixth should have furnished the detail. It could have filled the bill to
            perfection.
          The command crossed the river, passed through the city and about one mile beyond and
            west of the town, bivouacking on the site of an old camp of a part of the Ninth army
            corps. Here it lounged in bivouac for several days without any special duty to perform.
            On the 20th the regiment was ordered out for general inspection by Major Comstock,
            General Grant's Inspector General: On the 22d it drew two months' pay which came very
            acceptable. On this day, too, most of the men of the regiment went to work on their own
               motion to build quarters. They worked hard the 22d and
            23d, and most of them had just finished and moved into very comfortable huts on the
            evening of the 23d, when orders were received for fatigue duty which was soon changed to
            march in the morning. On the morning of the 24th the regiment resumed its wanderings.
            Passing through the city and along up the Holston it made good time and halted for the
            night about one hour before sunset. Remained at this bivouac two days and a half and
            marched up to Strawberry Plains, crossed the river and bivouacked within a quarter of a
            mile of the ferry, having crossed the river in boats.
          The next day, February 28, at 12 o'clock noon, the regiment started for New Market,
            east on the railroad. After marching about two miles it halted for a rest. Here the
            Eighty-sixth first saw the new Department Commander, recently the Commander of the Army
            of the United States, Major General John M. Schofield. Arriving at New Market and
            passing through town about a quarter of a mile the Third brigade bivouacked, and
            received orders to be ready to resume the march at 5 o'clock the following morning.
          The march was resumed promptly at the hour appointed, but the marching was not so
            pleasant on account of a heavy fall of rain during the night. About 10 o'clock when
            halted alongside the road for a rest, General Schofield and staff came riding down the
            road. The brigade arrived at Morristown about 4 o'clock and the Eighty-sixth had the
            good fortune to occupy some very good "shanties" built by troops belonging to the
            division of the rebel General Johnson, which was learned by inscriptions on the walls.
            The command had covered eighteen miles over muddy roads, and the men were tired; they
            considered themselves fortunate to get to shelter in the rebel huts even at the risk of
            accumulating a supply of "graybacks." A soaking rain fell during the night, drenching
            everything that was not under roof. Reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock and the regiment
            was up and ready for any emergency. The rain continued to fall most of the time during
            the forenoon and the Eighty-sixth remained housed. Rations of hard tack, poor beef,
            sugar  and coffee were drawn. In the evening of March 1,
            orders were received that reveille would be sounded at 4 o'clock. Strict orders were
            given against straggling or scouting independently. The regiment was astir at reveille
            and at 5 a. m. filed out upon the road and took the back track to New Market. The march
            was pretty steadily maintained with occasional rests, however, and arrived at camp near
            New Market at 3 o'clock p. m. Here strict orders were received to remain in camp, as the
            command was liable to march at any time during the night. The rank and file knew nothing
            of the cause of these moves—this marching and counter-marching, but it kept them
            alert. The regiment remained at New Market until the 12th, a scarcity of rations
            existing most of the time, many of the boys spending their extra cash in town for
            something to eat. It was at this camp that Captain James Gregory, of Company C, sent in
            his resignation on account of ill health. George Storms, of Company I, and John M. Cast,
            who had been to Indiana on recruiting service, returned to the regiment while in camp at
            New Market. While at New Market the regiment had but little duty to perform. It had
            light details for picket, and prepare for inspection on Sunday.
          On Friday, March 11, orders were received to march on the following morning at 8
            o'clock. The bugles sounded reveille at 4 o'clock. The men breakfasted and were ready in
            good time, although the march was resumed at 6:30 a. m. instead of 8 o'clock. Passing
            through New Market the command took the road to Morristown again. The march was
            continued until 2 o'clock p. m., when the regiment bivouacked in a thick brushy woods
            near Panther Springs, four miles west of Morristown. Orders to march at 5 o'clock the
            next morning. Reveille at 4 o'clock, and the regiment was at once awake and busy
            preparing for the march. But there was no rush, and the command lay round the bivouac
            fires until sunrise, marched out for Morristown and arrived there between 8 and 9
            o'clock. The Eighty-sixth was again so fortunate as to be camped in the rebel
            "shanties." The regiment was ordered on picket, and went out about 10  o'clock a. m. At 2 o'clock p. m. five companies were
            relieved and ordered to return to camp. There were rumors of fighting, and strict orders
            were given forbidding the men to leave camp under any circumstances. The fire of the
            skirmishers could be plainly heard during the afternoon and evening. The weather was raw
            and cold, a strong wind was blowing the entire day, making it very disagreeable, and the
            rebel "shanties" were a great convenience. This was on the 14th of March. It was on this
            day that Lieutenant Yount, of Company K, sent in his resignation. In the morning of the
            17th, orders were received to march at 5:30 a. m.. Vacated the huts and marched through
            town to the southeast a half-mile and camped. There the regiment was called upon to
            furnish a heavy detail for picket. On the morning of the 18th orders to march again. The
            picket detail was in charge of Captain William S. Sims, of Company F. When the detail
            reached camp the regiment had already set out upon the march, and did not succeed in
            rejoining its command until Mossy Creek was reached. No halt, however, was made, the
            command pressing on to New Market, where it arrived at noon. This was a tremendous rush
            for burdened troops—eighteen miles for the command in six hours, and about twenty
            miles for the picket detail under Captain Sims in the same length of time. This was
            perhaps the most rapid marching for the time and distance the regiment ever made. And
            there was nothing known to the rank and file which seemed to indicate that there was the
            least need of such forced marching. In fact, as the regiment remained here the rest of
            the day was pretty good evidence that no such an effort was at all necessary.
          On the morning of the 19th the bugles sounded reveille at 4 o'clock. At 5:30 the march
            was resumed. Passed through New Market to the west, taking the road to Strawberry
            Plains. The pace this morning was moderate and frequent rests were made. Crossed the
            river at the Plains about noon, and proceeded about three-quarters of a mile farther and
            bivouacked. Here the men had another half day to rest and recuperate, and have a good
            time discussing their probable destination. The next morning they were not disturbed,
               and the men of the Eighty-sixth slept quietly until
            daybreak and breakfasted at their leisure on hard tack, bacon and coffee. The "general
            call" was sounded about 9 o'clock, and marched about noon, that is two brigades, Hazen's
            and Beatty's, passing the old camp at Flat Creek, leaving House mountain to the left and
            then behind, going up the valley toward Rutledge, the county-seat of Grainger county.
            Having covered eight or nine miles, the command bivouacked this time in an open field.
            On the 21st reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock. With skirmishers in front and flankers on
            either side of the line of march the two brigades proceeded up the valley. Clinch
            mountains were on the left and the Holston river on the right. The pace was not rapid,
            but sufficiently well maintained to make fair progress. The command reached Rutledge
            about the hour of noon. The luck of the Eighty-sixth did not desert it, and the regiment
            was sent on picket. All reliefs not on the line were called up at 4 o'clock, and after a
            hasty breakfast the regiment stood to arms until daylight, and was then permitted to
            break ranks. The regiment was relieved about 11 o'clock, and marched at once to its
            camp-ground. This was on the 22d of March, and during the forenoon quite a snow fell.
            The command only remained here until the 24th, when it marched back down the valley
            opposite a gap in Clinch mountain known as Powder Spring Gap.
          From there on the 26th the Eighty-sixth went on a scouting expedition over the
            mountain. Marching over hills and through hollows the regiment at length reached the
            foot of the mountain and began the ascent. It was toilsome marching, winding around over
            the mountainous roads, still ever creeping higher, higher, as the gap is comparatively
            but a slight notch out of the great ridge. However, there was some compensation for this
            laborious marching, for~-as the men went up the mountain they could look back far over a
            magnificent stretch of country. Away to the east and southeast lay a country
            sufficiently broken to show the ridge and small valleys, presenting a beautiful
            landscape. It was a grand and inspiring view. Going down the mountain on the  opposite side a like stretch of country was to be seen to
            the north and northwest, the eye almost reaching to Cumberland Gap. After crossing the
            mountain a lively pace was struck up the valley almost parallel with ridge. Bivouacked a
            little before dark in an open field. Strong pickets were put out as the country was
            reported to be infested with "bushwhackers." No attack was made on any of the pickets,
            although some of the sentinels seemed to think there were prowlers around camp during
            the night. The march was resumed on the morning of the 27th up the valley, following a
            road which ran near the foot of Clinch mountain, but which at length left the mountain
            and bore off to the north. A "bushwhacker" was captured before noon by a detachment of
            Union calvalry. As he attempted to shoot one of the cavalry officers, after having been
            taken a prisoner, he was promptly shot down and left lying in the road. The climate of
            the valley, especially in this immediate locality, was supposed to be very unhealthy for
            single blue-coats, or even small squads absent from their command, therefore the ducks,
            geese, chickens, pigs and lambs were safe. A halt was called at noon. After a brief rest
            the regiment started on its return trip. The march was made in the same rapid manner as
            that of the forenoon, and it bivouacked on the same ground of the previous night. When
            the regiment started oil its return a company was sent up on the mountain to patrol it
            for bushwhackers. The company captured three suspicious characters supposed to belong to
            that class. Mountain "rangers'" skulking away from the blue-coats were looked upon as
            dangerous, particularly in this region where it was known so many found hiding places.
            The regiment reached its place of camping about 4:30. A few squads ventured out a short
            distance from camp on independent foraging excursions and gathered in small quantities
            of corn pone and such other articles as were easily collected, but no extensive trips
            were attempted as they evidently would have been attended with great danger. When almost
            ready to resume the tramp down the valley Company E was detailed to go over on the
            mountain, deploy and scour the mountain from  this point
            to the gap. The march was resumed at a moderate rate in order not to get too far in
            advance of the company on the mountain whose progress was necessarily slow. Occasionally
            some one would loosen a huge boulder and it would come thundering down the mountain side
            with the force of many cannon balls crushing everything before it. Company E rejoined
            the regiment on the mountain in the gap. Marching steadily the regiment reached its camp
            safely at noon on the 28th. Remained here some days watching for the enemy in force, and
            for "bushwhackers" in particular, but with no great success.
          On the 3d of April Hazen's Second brigade came in from a two or three days' scout. On
            the evening of the 5th orders were received to march at 6 o'clock the following morning.
            The scouting and watching had been done to clear as thoroughly as possible East
            Tennessee of the enemy, and now the veterans were to join Sherman and Thomas, leaving a
            few regiments of veteran infantry and cavalry and the hundred delays' men to look after
            and protect the country in the rear, while the division was to go to the front to try
            conclusions with wily Joe Johnston's army. Johnston was perhaps the wariest and most
            skillful and able of all the Confederacy's generals. He was, too, when occasion demanded
            a daring fighter, a really capable battle-chief.
          On the morning of the 6th of April, the regiment marched at'6 o'clock and bivouacked at
            night near Strawberry Plains. The next day the command covered about twenty miles,
            passing through Knoxville and some distance beyond on the road to Loudon. At this
            bivouac a heavy rain fell, and the command lay by for a half-day. Then pressing on it
            passed through Concord and Lenoir's and reached the river opposite Loudon about 8
            o'clock a. m. on the 10th. As the command could not cross it marched back about a half
            mile and bivouacked until the following morning when between 9 and 10 o'clock it crossed
            on a boat, the "Kingston," and remained in camp here untill the 12th. On morning of the
            13th the tramp was resumed at 5 o'clock. Passed through Philadelphia and marching
            moderately  reached the town of Sweetwater about noon, and
            bivouacked for the night one mile beyond the town. On the morning of the 14th the bugles
            sounding reveille for the various brigades and regiments awoke the echoes of the hill
            and dale at 4 o'clock, "murdering sleep," and the men arose promptly, "bayonetted" their
            coffee and prepared a soldier's meal with a soldier's alacrity. But the hurry was
            entirely unnecessary as the Eighty-sixth being in the rear did not march until 9
            o'clock. That day the regiment passed through Mouse Creek Station and arrived within one
            mile of Athens and camped in a pine grove. On the 15th reveille was sounded at 4
            o'clock. Some one writing of the late war and speaking of reveille calls it "the
            morning's repetend" and speaks of its "repetitional notes." It would seem to be true to
            the tired soldier, and when sleepy to the last degree after a long and wearisome march
            were seldom more aggravated than when awakened, it seemed immediately after closing
            their eyes in sleep, by these "repetitional notes" of the bugle so often sounded under
            the same circumstances, always to awaken them, to disturb their slumbers if they were
            asleep, to call them to renewed labors of toilsome marching, was it any wonder that
            tired humanity sometimes swore at the bugler and wished him in Halifax. On the 15th the
            march was resumed at 5:30 a. m. Passing through Athens the command took the road to
            Charleston. After passing through Riceville, Calhoun was reached at 1 o'clock, crossed
            the Hiwassee river on pontoons and arrived at Charleston before it was late, near which
            place the regiment turned in for the night. On the 16th the regiment was on the march at
            5:30 a. m. going toward Cleveland, but the gait was moderate with frequent rests. The
            Eighty-sixth reached Cleveland at 2 o'clock. At the outskirts of the town the regiment
            was ordered to "fix bayonets." It was thrown into columns of divisions and marched
            through in fine style with colors flying and keeping step to the music of the Union. The
            command covered eighteen or nineteen miles on this day. On the following morning the men
            slept undisturbed. The morning's "repetend" had failed to repeat  and the "repetitional notes" themselves seemed to be sleeping, at last. It
            was refreshing, indeed, once more to sleep undisturbed. The regiment was now in camp
            near McDonald Station, between Chattanooga and Cleveland.
          And now the Eighty-sixth's campaign to Knoxville and East Tennessee for the relief of
            the Army of the Ohio was ended. It had returned to the vicinity of Chattanooga and
            rejoined the forces of the old Army of the Cumberland, after a long, dark winter of
            hardships, hunger, and suffering, such as had never been experienced in its own
            department, not even while beleaguered in Chattanooga.
        
        
          CHAPTER XXI.  SHERMAN'S CAMPAIGN IN GEORGIA.
          General Howard in Command of the Fourth Corps—The Eleventh and Twelfth Corps
            Consolidated and Designated the Twentieth—Sherman's Preparation for the Atlanta
            Campaign—The Importance of the Grand Movement—Tunnel Hill—Rocky Face
            Ridge—Dalton—The Battle of Resacca.
          On the 10th of April General Gordon Granger had been relieved of the command of the
            Fourth army corps, and had been succeeded by General O. O. Howard. At the same time the
            Eleventh corps, which up to that time had been commanded by General Howard, was
            consolidated with the Twelfth corps. and the designation changed to that of the
            Twentieth, with General Joseph Hooker in command. The Army of the Cumberland was now
            composed of the Fourth, Fourteenth, and Twentieth corps. While at McDonald Station
            making preparations for the Atlanta campaign some changes were made in the commanders of
            the Fourth corps divisions. General D. S. Stanley was placed in command of the First
            division, General John Newton of the Second, while General T. J. Wood retained the
            command of the Third. No changes were made in the brigade commanders of the Third
            division, of which the Eighty-sixth formed a part.
          
          General W. T. Sherman who had succeeded General Grant in the command of the Military
            Division of the Mississippi, had concentrated an army of nearly a hundred thousand men
            in the vicinity of Chattanooga, having for his chief objectives, the destruction of the
            Confederate army under General Joseph E. Johnston, then at Dalton, in northern Georgia,
            and the capture of the city of Atlanta. General Sherman's forces were composed as
            follows: Army of the Cumberland, General George H. Thomas in command, with 60,773 men;
            Army of the Tennessee, General J. B. McPherson in command, with 24,465 men; Army of the
            Ohio, with General J. M. Schofield in command, with 13,559 men; making a grand aggregate
            of troops of 98,797, and of guns, 254. General Johnston's army was composed of about
            55,000 men. It was arranged in three corps, commanded respectively by Generals W. J.
            Hardee, J. B. Hood, and Leonidas Polk.
          In importance of grand movements, continued skirmishing and close every day fighting
            from constant contact with the enemy, in numbers of momentous battles fought, and in
            practical lessons in the great school of war for both officers and privates, the Atlanta
            Campaign was incomparably the greatest of the campaigns in which the Eighty-sixth
            participated. Nor is it in any sense intended to speak disparageingly of its former
            campaigns and battles, as the regiment was engaged in three of the greatest battles of
            the war, namely, Stone's River, Chickamauga, and the battle of Chattanooga. But as the
            Atlanta Campaign was its most remarkable campaign, so the regimental experience partook
            of its thrilling nature. It is not putting it too strongly to say that it was the
            greatest campaign of the war. It is true the forces of Grant and Lee in the East greatly
            outnumbered those of Johnston and Sherman in the West, but they were not handled with
            the same masterful skill as were the western forces. Nor did Grant's successes of '64
            have the same determining effect upon the close of the war as did those of Sherman.
            Johnston's masterly retreat, covering every point of his route so completely as he fell
            back, is universally recognized as a remarkable feat in all the world's history of
            military  affairs, having few parallels in the history of
            retreats, and probably there has been none more skillfully conducted. A competent
            military critic who took an active part in the campaign says of it: "General Johnston,
            however, as he abandoned his entrenched positions, conducted his retreat, in my
            judgment, in a prudent and consummate manner, both in strategy and tactics. All
            positions chosen for making a stand were selected with the utmost sagacity and skill,
            and his defenses were thrown up and strengthened with the exercise of marvelous
            ingenuity and judgment. * * In fact, it was the cleanest and best
            conducted retreat, as was remarked by every one, which we had seen or read of."
          That General Sherman, acting on the offensive which put him at a great disadvantage,
            was able to overcome Johnston's force, skillfully as it was handled, the difficulties of
            a mountainous country, a long line of communications, strongly fortified positions on
            ground easily defensive-naturally almost impregnable-all this, too, in the short space
            of four months, must ever place him head and shoulders above all of his contemporaries
            as a master of the science and art of war.
          To have taken lessons of war in this grand school under two such masters as General
            Johnston and General Sherman, assisted by Hardee, Hood, Polk, and Pat Cleburne, on the
            one side, and by Thomas, McPherson, Hooker, Logan, and Schofield on the other, is no
            small honor, and the Eighty-sixth was in it from start to finish, and with credit to
            itself and the State of Indiana.
          As stated at the close of the previous chapter, Wood's division arrived at the camp
            near McDonald Station on Saturday, April 16. On Sunday the men were permitted to rest
            undisturbed, except they were required to appear in line for inspection. Lieutenant
            Kibler, the Brigade Inspector, perfunctorily passed up and down the lines and the men
            were soon dismissed. On the 19th the regiment marched a short distance to a new camp
            ground, which was found to be a wild woods with a dense growth of underbrush. The ground
            was soon cleared and the tents erected. Again came the 
            details for fatigue and picket duty at regular times, and after a few days,
            drill-recruit, company and battalion. The buglers were again busy sounding the calls for
            reveille, sick, picket, fatigue, meals, retreat, tattoo and taps, so that the time of
            the men was pretty well occupied. Still the duties were not exhausting and the men
            received a sufficient supply of good rations, so with few exceptions they were in
            excellent health. There were, however, a number in the regiment who were so completely
            worn out and broken down by the winter's hardships that they had to be sent to the
            hospital, some of whom died shortly after leaving the regiment. No doubt they were
            literally frozen and starved to death, although not dying immediately on experiencing
            these hardships. Besides the above mentioned duties the men were ordered to engage at
            target practice. This led them to think that they were likely to have some shooting to
            do in the near future which would mean something, and they entered upon the performance
            of the new duty with great zeal.
          On the 29th of April the Fourth army corps was reviewed by the new Corps Commander,
            Major General O. O. Howard—the Havelock of the army. He complimented his command
            highly and the men returned to camp in fine spirits. Dress parade was held almost every
            evening, and the army was being put in the best possible condition for the coming
            campaign. On the 1st of May at dress parade a general order was read to the regiment,
            informing the men that the army would move soon and directing that all extra baggage
            should be packed and sent to Bridgeport. On the 3d the sick who were unable to march
            were sent to the rear. The impedimenta were reduced to a minumum and
            orders were received to march at 12 o'clock.
          The command marched out in a southwesterly direction, covering about seven miles, and
            bivouacking in a fine pine grove. On the 4th it filed out upon the road at 6 a. m.,
            reveille having been sounded at 4 o'clock. The roads were dry and dusty. The gait was
            moderate and frequent halts were made, probably for the purpose of reconnoitering lest
            the enemy should lie in concealment. The army was now 
            approaching the outposts of a large force of the enemy and it was necessary that every
            precaution should be taken. The Tennessee and Georgia state line was crossed about 9
            o'clock. Continuing the march until 1 p. m. the division bivouacked near Catoosa
            Springs, and to complete the programme as on former occasions, the Eighty-sixth went on
            picket. The line of sentinels was soon established. The enemy's pickets were in plain
            view. It was soon to be known as a skirmish line, one, too, which with the movable
            column, was to last for months as it advanced further and further into the heart of the
            Confederacy.
          General Jacob D. Cox, in his history of the campaign, speaking of the movements of the
            army and the concentration of troops upon Dalton, or rather upon Rocky Face Ridge, says:
            "On the 4th of May, Schofield, marching out of East Tennessee by way of Cleveland and
            the old Federal Road, had crossed the Georgia line and reached Red Clay, passing by a
            part of the Fourth corps, which immediately took up its march and moved to Catoosa
            Springs, while the rest of the Army of the Cumberland advanced to the immediate
            neighborhood of Ringgold, and the Army of the Tennessee came close up on their right at
            Lee & Gordon's Mills. Sherman himself, was at the center with Thomas, and the whole
            army was well in hand, the extreme distance from McPherson to Schofield being about
            sixteen miles, in a line nearly at right angles to the road from Chattanooga to Dalton,
            Thomas, whose force was nearly equal to Johnston's, being somewhat advanced beyond the
            wings." The Fourth corps was on the left of the Army of the Cumberland and next to the
            Army of the Ohio, which was on the extreme left of the infantry line of Sherman's grand
            army.
          On the morning of the 5th of May the Eighty-sixth was on duty on the picket line near
            Catoosa Springs, Georgia. Those members of the regiment who were on the line as
            sentinels at the time when the picket relief came, witnessed the opening of the campaign
            on the part of the Fourth corps. The advance of the picket or skirmish line was the
            first step. Hazen's brigade line was first advanced. A few shots were  fired, but a slight resistance was offered, the enemy
            falling back quickly on the approach of the line of blue-coats. The Eighty-sixth was
            relieved by the Seventy-ninth Indiana, Colonel Fred Knefler. The men of the
            Seventy-ninth were no sooner distributed upon the line than they, too, were ordered
            forward. The advance was handsomely made, with only a show of disputing the way, from
            the enemy's skirmishers. Immediately after the advance of the skirmishers the detail
            returned from the line of the reserve station and the regiment marched back to camp. The
            regiment remained here the rest of the day and the next day. Many of the boys visited
            the Springs and drank of the water without asking a leave, and looked through the hotel
            now deserted.
          Reveille was sounded promptly by the buglers of the Third brigade at 3:30 on the
            morning of the 7th of May. The two years' field service at the front had taught the men
            that these orders meant business. There were no laggards that morning in the
            Eighty-sixth. The regiment marched out at 6 a. m., the hour's delay being occasioned by
            another division having the advance. The progress made was slow on account of the
            proximity of the enemy.
          The season's entertainments were now opened. General Sherman had invited the boys to "a
            game of punch" with "bayonet trimmings" and "flash" accompaniments, and they could not
            well refuse so polite and cordial an invitation from such an urbane, courteous
            gentleman. The festival was now to begin—the ball was opened, at least the
            musicians were tuning their instruments to furnish the music. But it was the festival of
            death, the harvest of carnage, on the field of battle. The crackling fire of the
            skirmishers as they pressed forward upon the enemy could be plainly heard directly after
            the Eighty-sixth left camp, and grew in volume as it advanced. It became quite warm work
            as the forces pressed steadily forward, and as they approached Tunnel Hill it grew
            hotter and hotter, threatening a battle. The lines were formed ready for the contest.
            Here and there were seen a few great red drops spattered on the dry leaves of the
            forest. They were like the few scattering raindrops  that
            precede the fast approaching thunder storm of a summer afternoon. But this was to be a
            thunder storm of a different character—a storm that was to be as terrific as the
            fiercest of the elemental storms, and it was to continue four long months, a storm whose
            raindrops were blood, whose hailstones were minie balls, shot shell and shrapnel, whose
            lightnings were flashes from the cannon's throat, whose thunders were the roar of
            batteries contending for the mastery; yet, into this fierce, pelting, destroying storm
            of human ingenuity, the Eighty-sixth resolutely pushed with bated breath.
          As Tunnel Hill was approached, Union batteries opened upon the enemy from various
            points, and the skirmishers pressed courageously on and soon cleared the town and
            mounted the hill through which the railroad tunnel is made, and which gives the name
            both to the hill and the little town situated at the foot of its western slope. The hill
            itself is a low mountainous ridge extending nearly due north and south, and lying about
            one and a half miles to the west of a companion ridge which, however, is much higher and
            is known as Rocky Face Ridge. The low valley between these ridges was mostly wooded to
            the north, but opened by farms more to the south. The western slope of Rocky Face was
            heavily wooded throughout its length. The valley is almost unbroken by hills. Tunnel
            Hill is low in comparison with Rocky Face Ridge, which mounts to the height of eighteen
            hundred feet above sea level, and is crested with precipitous faces of quartz rock,
            making it insurmountable except where a few narrow clefts of the rock can be found. It
            was, however, practically impregnable. This ridge is broken by a deep gorge for the
            passage of Mill creek. Two miles and a half south of the tunnel is Tunnel Hill. The
            mountain south of the gorge still maintains its broken nature and rocky faces, and is
            called by the various names of Rocky Face Ridge Buzzard Roost mountain, Chattooga and
            Chattogata mountains. Mill creek rises by two branches, one in Snake Creek Gap between
            Horn mountain and Buzzard Roost mountain and the other to the west of Horn mountain.
            These branches  unite at a point in the valley nearly west
            of Dug Gap, four miles south of Mill Creek Gap, thence running nearly due north until it
            reaches the gap and winds its devious course through the gap and among the hills until
            it reaches the Cooyehullee, a tributary of the Connasauga. The ends of these mountains,
            jutting upon this stream and forming the gorge, were known as Buzzard Roost, and the gap
            itself was commonly known as Buzzard Roost Gap. The mountain to the north of the gap is
            more rugged and broken than that to the south. The rocky palisades are higher and more
            difficult to scale. The mountain south of Mill Creek Gap is broken by two slight passes
            known as Ray's or Mill Gap, and Dug Gap, Ray's Gap being directly west of Dalton. But
            they were securely guarded. Upon Rocky Face Ridge, north and south of the gap, were
            posted the forces of Johnston's army. His line of intrenchments only extended about two
            miles on the crest of the ridge north of the gap, then turned due east, and crossed Crow
            Creek Valley, and thus securely protected his right flank. Any force which General
            Sherman should detach to turn Johnston's right flank in this position would have to make
            a wide detour to round the north end of the mountain. It would be entirely separate,
            from the balance of the army, out of supporting distance, and would find itself
            confronting an almost impregnable line of breastworks. Thus Dalton was held securely on
            the north and west; for the ridge was a veritable rocky fortress, impregnable in front,
            and made apparently so on the flanks. It did look as though there was little hope of
            success when opposed by such barriers and such forces directed by such consummate skill,
            but General Sherman was alert to every movement.
          The skirmishers having captured Tunnel Hill and pressed on across the valley to the
            foot of Rocky Face Ridge the columns of the Fourth corps mounted the hill. The Third
            brigade passed to the left, and the Eighty-sixth bivouacked in a dense thicket on the
            crest in full view of the rocky fortress across the valley. In front, and a little to
            the right, a rebel signal station on the crest of Rocky Face was  busily engaged in sending orders or reports. The artillery to the right sent
            over a few rounds of shot and shell by way of introduction, and to get an exact idea of
            the distance from crest to crest. Troops continued to arrive and take their respective
            positions to right and left, showing that it was indeed a grand movement—a
            movement in force which evidently meant hot work for all.
          As night approached, the magnitude of the assembled hosts might be more nearly
            comprehended. Upon the rocky fortress were the mighty battalions of the enemy. But
            Sherman's army had come to stay, the summer, at least. It was a night never to be
            forgotten. The camp-fires were blazing for miles to right and to left, here for the
            blue, there for the gray. Along the crest of Tunnel Hill, on the hilltops, in the
            valley, up the mountain side, everywhere, save beyond the enemy's lines, the blue-coats
            swarmed, and everywhere their camp-fires flamed and leaped up as with joy in the clear
            cool air of the May evening. But high over all might be seen the great fires of the
            rebel host on the opposing mountain's top, perhaps two thousand feet high. There the
            fires flamed up and threw a lurid glare around, almost dispelling the deepening shades
            of night. And there, too, around these fires loomed up against the dark sky beyond the
            long lank forms of the Southern soldiers as if only giants trod the distant mountain's
            crest.
          The Union army alone numbered nearly one hundred thousand men and such a multitude is
            of itself a grand and memorable sight. But here in addition to the vast multitudes were
            the grand wagon trains that brought the provisions and the munitions of war; innumerable
            ambulances to carry away the sick and the wounded, and there were great parks of
            artillery, the bull-dogs of war, ready to tear and destroy. Everywhere could be heard
            the neighing steed, the blare of trumpet, the soul stirring drum, and the ear piercing
            fife. In short, "here was all quality, pride, pomp, and circumstances of glorious war,"
            added to the grand natural scenery of the place. The countless camp-fires gave the
            strong contrast of light to the deepening shades of night 
            and made it inconceivably grand and striking. It was a sight to compare with the
            grandest in nature in strong impressiveness. A falling avalanche, a storm at sea, a full
            flowing Niagara, might awaken kindred emotions to those which many experienced on
            beholding these vast armies swarming over hill, valley, and mountain, in the wild wood
            and on open plain, in the light of their camp-fires ready for the grapple which was to
            decide a nation's life or a nation's destruction.
          In their mountain fastness, fortified and protected by all the arts known to the
            military scientist, and directed and led by their most astute commander, the enemy
            awaited the attack. General Johnston was noted for his skill and caution. A veritable
            Fabius, he never sacrificed a man or a position save in the direst necessity. He made no
            rash attacks, but sought to tempt and lure his adversary to make the advances and to
            attack his well chosen positions. Courageous and watchful, he was always ready to strike
            a counter-blow. This was the situation on the night of the 7th of May, 1864, when the
            two mighty armies lay, one upon Tunnel Hill, and the other upon Rocky Face Ridge.
          On the morning of the 8th of May reveille was sounded at 3:30. The regiment was soon
            astir in its leafy covert, and breakfasted at an early hour on a soldier's fare, after
            which everything was speedily made ready for the performance of any duty. The day was
            Sunday, but the tireless leader's orders were to press the enemy at all points,
            presumably with the hope that by chance a weak point in his seemingly impregnable
            position might be found. At 9 o'clock a. m. the Eighty-sixth with the Third brigade,
            Third division, Fourth corps, filed out from its bivouac in the thicket. Reaching open
            ground, Colonel Dick gave the command, "Double column on the center by divisions at half
            distance-march." The command was executed at once. Thus formed the regiment closed up on
            the front line of battle to support it. These movements, together with those of other
            troops, were performed in full view of the enemy on the crest of the ridge, on the top
            of which they seemed to swarm like bees. But  little time
            was given those in the ranks for taking observations, as the regiment pressed forward,
            keeping well up in the line of battle. The line of battle itself keeping close up to a
            strong skirmish line that pressed resolutely forward. The skirmishers were apparently in
            bad humor and sent spiteful messengers from line to line. The rebel line was watchful
            and allowed no chance to escape without annoying the blue-coats by its fire. The line of
            battle was pushed ahead and the Eighty-sixth, under the watchful eye of Colonel Dick,
            kept well up to its support in every move. The advance was very slow, but was continued,
            the line shifting back and forth, a strong effort being made to maintain a correct
            alignment which was extremely difficult. Thus the day rattled on and on. About 3 o'clock
            having worked its way well upon the side of the mountain, the line of battle made a dash
            for the enemy. A hot fire was opened at once. The Eighty-sixth was ordered to lie down.
            This had been repeated a number of times during the day, but this proved to be hotter
            than those gone before. The batteries in the rear kept up almost a continuous fire upon
            the ridge and more especially upon the gap, so the din of battle roared the whole day
            through. Cox, in speaking of this day's contest, says: "At the center, Wood's division
            of the Fourth, Davis' of the Fourteenth and Butterfield's of the Twentieth corps, pushed
            back the enemy into the mouth of the gap." As the evening drew on, the fire of the
            contending skirmish lines slackened somewhat and the wearied soldiers reversed their
            bayonets, turning them upon their coffee in tincups, procured water and prepared a
            soldier's meal, and slept for the night.
          On the morning of the 9th, after a hasty morning meal, the Eighty-sixth was ordered
            about 6 o'clock to relieve the regiment on the front line. It was ordered to advance
            immediately upon taking the position held by the regiment on the line. The Eighty-sixth
            went forward steadily as could be done over the rocky mountain slope, maintaining its
            battle-line fairly well until within a rod or so of the skirmishers on the line, where
            being exposed to a hot fire it was ordered  to lie down.
            The enemy's skirmishers showed themselves to be excellent marksmen. The accuracy of
            their aim rendered it absolutely necessary to move with extreme caution. Sometimes the
            enemy would loosen a huge bowlder from the mountain's side near the top and give it a
            start when it would come thundering down with force enough to crush an elephant. But the
            men were on the alert and careful to make way for them and allow them an unobstructed
            descent. Although the men graciously gave the bowlders the right-of-way, they were none
            the less anxious to give their senders something else. Occasionally a fatally wounded
            man would utter a fearfully startling cry and sink to the ground, a victim on the altar
            of his country. Cox in his account of this day, says: "During Monday, the 9th, Thomas
            and Schofield pressed Johnston's front at all points. The divisions of Hooker's, was no
            combined and determined assault of the Confederate lines in form, the attack was kept up
            with well supported skirmish lines, and Sherman's purpose of keeping his opponent fully
            occupied was well carried out." This is a fair, although brief statement of the fighting
            of the Army of the Cumberland on the 9th. But to make as great impression on the enemy
            as possible, a massing of forces in front of the gap was ordered in the afternoon. About
            4 o'clock the Eighty-sixth with the Third brigade was ordered to move by the right flank
            down upon the gap, or rather to close down upon the forces in its immediate front. The
            movement was executed in a very deliberate manner, exposing the brigade to a galling
            fire from the enemy's sharpshooters on the crest of the ridge. There was, however, no
            flinching and the men stood in ranks, or closed up the line, fronted, lying down when
            ordered, as deliberately as when in camp, maintaining their positions in ranks that they
            might be ready at any instant to repel an assault. Thus the brigade made its way slowly
            to the left front of the gap, the movements, indicating an intention of assaulting the
            gap, and the enemy seemed to be of this opinion. Here the fire of the enemy grew hotter
            and he  seemed to be determined to kill all of the Yankees
            in sight. The Eighty-sixth was exposed and lost a number wounded. With Hoosier
            stubbornness it held its position without returning a shot, until near sundown when the
            regiment received orders to return to its former position. After supper the Eighty-sixth
            received orders to go on the skirmish line. In a short time the regiment reached the
            reserve station and the men were promptly placed upon the line. The line was a strong
            one and a brisk fire was kept up. During the night the firing was not so brisk, yet it
            was sufficiently so to keep the respective lines of skirmishers apprised of the presence
            of the other. When daylight came again the firing quickened and a sharp outlook was
            necessary. The rocks and trees were fairly hugged, as the enemy's skirmishers had such
            perfect range that it was unsafe to show one's head. James Sipes, of Company A, had his
            cheek severely grained by a musket ball, tearing the skin sufficiently to make it
            extremely painful. This enraged Sipes and he swore vengeance on the whole "grayback"
            tribe. He allowed no chance of a shot to escape him and doubtless made the fellows up
            the mountain lie low for he was furious. The reserve station was but little better than
            the skirmish line, as the bullets rattled on trees and rocks around the station
            continually, and it seemed a miracle that so many escaped destruction. Just after dark
            the Eighty-sixth was relieved from the skirmish line by the Seventy-ninth Indiana,
            Colonel Fred Knefler in command. Colonel Dick promptly led the regiment to its position
            with the brigade near the foot of the ridge where it bivouacked for the night.
          On the morning of the 11th, the fire of the enemy was very annoying and exasperating,
            being animated, well maintained and accurate. A little after 8 o'clock the command
            retired somewhat to the left rear and was less exposed. The skirmish lines, however,
            continued a lively fire throughout the day, there being a number wounded. During the
            afternoon the division received orders to retire to Tunnel Hill immediately after dark.
            Sherman was preparing to place  his army in front of
            Resaca where McPherson had already preceded him. At the appointed hour Wood's division
            took position on Tunnel Hill and bivouacked there, feeling safe, as it was a good mile
            from the nearest enemy.
          On the morning of the 12th the regiment was up by daylight. During the early morning
            the men had nothing to do but to look at the Twenty-third army corps as it marched to
            the right, the Fourth corps having preceded it to join McPherson before Resaca. Wood's
            division remained in bivouac on Tunnel Hill until 1 o'clock, when it was marched to the
            left into the valley to the support of Newton's division of the Fourth corps. The
            Eighty-sixth occupied a position quite near the front line for some time, but at length
            the whole division was again moved, this time to the left rear of Newton's position.
            Here it was ordered to entrench, which was done by piling up rails and digging a trench,
            throwing the dirt to the front of the barricade. Wood's division thus intrenched
            occupied the extreme left of the infantry line at Rocky Face Ridge. But still to Wood's
            left the cavalry of the two armies was doing some sharp fighting and an attack was
            expected, as Wheeler outnumbered the Union cavalry, and showed an ugly front. But it was
            not all fair sailing for the enemy. He had all the fighting he cared for, as his leader
            had been out-generaled at all points. By the night of the 12th Johnston was glad to let
            go of Dalton and his stronghold on Rocky Face Ridge and Buzzard Roost (Mill Creek) Gap.
            He therefore abandoned all of his fortifications and his impregnable position to save
            his line of communication and retreat, and retired hastily to Resaca to face Sherman
            there. The Fourth corps was after him early on the morning of the 13th, the cavalry
            pressing on at full speed, followed by the infantry. The corps rounded the north end of
            Rocky Face Ridge and passed near the mountain down Crow Valley and crossed the enemy's
            line of intrenchments, which were very strong, and soon came to a general camp. Near
            this camp were seen eighteen or twenty posts and as many graves. They were said to have
            been used to which deserters were tied to be shot. Twenty men were said to have  been executed here at one time by the order of General
            Braxton Bragg during the winter or spring. In the camp itself were many "stocks" used
            for punishing more trifling offenses. These were the first of the instruments of
            punishment the Eighty-sixth had ever seen, and many had no idea for what purposes they
            were intended to be used. General Willich said to a crowd that was examining the
            "stocks," "Phoys, you don't know what ees the greatest bunishment to these poor devils.
            Dey can't scratch when de lice bites 'em." This was received with a shout of laughter
            and the General rode on. As the regiment left the camp it bore off to the left and
            turned down Crow Valley proper and marched straight for Dalton, where Wood's division
            arrived about noon.
          There was every evidence of haste on the part of the absconding enemy. Many had thrown
            away their knapsacks and all extra baggage in their hurry to flee from their pursuers.
            The command proceeded at a good round pace about five miles farther and halted for
            supper. Shortly after sundown it resumed its line of march, but at a much slower speed
            than before. The enemy's cavalry were now in front and showing a bold front, fighting
            over every inch of ground and obstructing the roads. Still General Howard forced his
            column forward several miles to the neighborhood of Tilton, six or seven miles distant
            from Resaca. Here the rebel cavalry made a determined stand,and reinforced by some
            infantry under the command of General John C. Brown, showed a disposition to bring on an
            engagement. This was about 9 o'clock at night. The country, as well as the force of the
            enemy, being unknown to General Howard, he deemed it prudent to wait until daylight
            before attempting to force his way farther. Therefore, the command slept on its arms,
            but the enemy had enough to do to defend his own ground. The command was promptly astir
            at daybreak, but did not march until about 9 o'clock. After marching four or five miles
            the command was halted, the officers probably reconnoitering in the meantime. At length,
            the rest of the division was in position and the Third brigade was massed and held in
            reserve ready to go wherever needed. The command  was now
            before the enemy's works at Resaca, where he again stood at bay as though it was "the
            last ditch."
          Sherman's army was once more concentrated upon the enemy, and this time he was less
            favorably situated, although here he was quite strongly posted. The general alignment of
            the Union forces, moving to the attack of Johnston in his intrenchments around Resaca,
            was completed about noon on the 14th. The fighting was almost continuous and at times
            the ground was fiercely contested. Johnston evidently felt very sore that he had been so
            easily maneuvered out of Dalton and the impregnable position in its front, and wished to
            inflict a crippling blow at this point if possible, and was fighting with courage and
            determination to win the lost ground.
          McPherson was on the right, then Thomas with Palmer's Fourteenth and Hooker's corps, in
            the order named, from the right, then came Schofield with the Twenty-third corps, with
            Howard's Fourth corps about one mile north of Schofield's left flank. Cox, in his
            history of the campaign giving the account of this day's doings, says: "Newton's and
            Wood's divisions of the Fourth corps marched to their support—Cox's division. The
            enemy fell back and established a new line several hundred yards further in the rear.
            Wood formed upon Cox's left, and Stanley's division was in echelon
            still beyond Wood's flank." Victor, in his voluminous history of the Southern Rebellion,
            speaking of the Fourth corps, says: "The Fourth corps, under command of Major General
            Howard, the 'one-armed veteran,' as he is styled in the corps, played a very conspicuous
            part in the tragedy of war enacted on the 14th. All the corps, with the exception of
            Beatty's fighting brigade, for which room could not be found—as the circle was
            gradually compressed as it advanced—was engaged and covered itself with glory.
            Wood's division was ordered into position on the right of General Stanley, just before
            noon, and was soon hotly engaged with Hazen and Willich's brigades driving the enemy.
            For some time a destructive infantry and artillery fire was kept up, and soon his main
            line advanced in great strength upon the  enemy which
            fled, at his approach, to his rifle-pits. The energetic Wood soon dislodged him and
            compelled him to seek shelter under cover of their breastworks, from which he was driven
            later in the day."
          The battle had been waged the whole day with great vigor. The red tide of war had ebbed
            and flowed from point around the lines as the struggle raged on. Sometimes the
            Confederates were successful, but usually the strong current of blue-coats overwhelmed
            tile chivalry of the Southland and swept everything clean before them. The resolute
            Northmen were not to be denied their demands as they crowded forward and enforced them
            with ball and bayonet. Far into the night might be heard the occasional outburst of
            sharp rattling musketry, as the hope of advantage induced one or the other side to
            strike out expecting to secure some strong foot-hold, and thus strengthen their side and
            increase their chance of ultimate success. Although the fighting was stubborn, and inch
            by inch over every foot of ground wrested from the enemy by the Union forces there
            seemed to be a decided balance in their favor. The troops were in correspondingly good
            spirits, notwithstanding their onerous duties and great dangers. Cheers, good and
            strong, frequently went the rounds of the Union lines and testified to the enemy of the
            pefect morale of Sherman's forces.
          On the morning of the 15th the desultory picket firing of the skirmish-line began to
            quicken between 5 and 6 o'clock. This continued to increase in volume and fierceness
            throughout the morning, but nothing more than a determined skirmish battle occurred
            until near the hour of 10 a. m. The brunt of the battle was expected to fall upon the
            extreme left of, the Union forces, and so it proved. Hooker here confronted the
            impetuous Hood, who knew only to fight and who was a fair match for "fighting Joe" for
            down-right desperate fighting qualities. The attack of Butterfield's division of
            Hooker's corps, on Stevenson's division of Hood's corps, was successful, but not
            completely so. Stevenson was driven back and lost a battery that had been run forward
            into a commanding position, but was so exposed that Hooker's men were  not able to take possession of it, the guns remaining
            between the battle lines until night. But this attack of Hooker's showed Johnston the
            exposed condition of his right, and Hood received orders to retake the lost ground. In
            the meantime Sherman had withdrawn two divisions of Schofield's corps from the line in
            the center, and ordered them to take position on Hooker's left, thus extending his left
            and so overlap Johnston's right. Johnston had also ordered Polk to attack McPherson.
            Polk moved to the onset, and was beaten before Hood's forces arrived, whereupon Johnston
            countermanded the order to Hood, but this command failed to reach Stewart, who was to
            make the attack, but was received by Stevenson who was to act as his support.
            Consequently, Stewart charging upon Hooker's forces without proper support was roughly
            handled and driven back with heavy loss. This attack of Stewart's was made about 4
            o'clock in the afternoon. At this time Beatty's brigade was ordered under arms and
            momentarily expected to be ordered into the battle on the left, but was not needed.
            Beaten at all points, with great loss, the enemy was disheartened and began to feel that
            he was overmatched. On the left he had been driven pell-mell into his works and an
            advantageous position secured by Hooker, while on the right McPherson had been equally
            successful, and had gained a position on the extreme right near the Oostanaula river,
            from which point his artillery commanded very effectually the railroad and wagon bridges
            over the river. Besides Sherman had crossed Sweeny's division of the Sixteenth corps at
            Turner's or Lay's Ferry, while Garrard's cavalry threatened Johnston's line of
            communications at Calhoun, further south. Johnston at once determined to evacuate.
            Accordingly on the night of the 15th he retired south of the river to a point near
            Calhoun, on the railroad. He effectually destroyed both bridges, however, before leaving
            the river, and thus delayed Sherman's crossing. He left a lot of supplies and a four gun
            battery in the intrenchments which he was unable to move.
          On the morning of the 16th Sherman's forces were early in pursuit and pressed on into
            the town of Resaca at an  early hour. The battle-field
            around Resaca bore evidence of the great struggle that had taken place. Thickets of
            brush, even great saplings, were literally mown down by the storm of musket balls, shot,
            shell, grape and canister. The Union loss was heavy, but so was the enemy's. He had been
            badly beaten at all points, and had been compelled to give up another strong position
            and abandon supplies which he so much needed. This was very discouraging to Johnston's
            forces, while it greatly encouraged the Union troops. The Third brigade moved up near
            the town and bivouacked to await the building of a bridge or the putting clown of
            pontoons to cross the river. Quite a large quantity of corn meal was captured and the
            Eighty-sixth got its full share, and therefore feasted on corn cakes for dinner, having
            a better relish for them than during the preceding winter in East Tennessee. Immediately
            after noon troops began crossing the river on a pontoon bridge just below the burned
            railroad bridge, the Fourth corps leading the advance, the Fourteenth corps crossing
            immediately after the Fourth. It was slow work and Hooker was ordered to march out upon
            the Newtown road and cross the Oostanaula in the southward bend of the river near the
            junction of the Connasauga and Coosawattee. Schofield was to cross the Connasauga at
            Fite's Ferry or Echota, then cross the Coosawattee at McClure's. McPherson crossed his
            command at Lay's or Turner's Ferry, where Sweeny had crossed to turn Johnston's flank.
            Thus once more the whole army was abreast ready to meet the enemy.
          The attack upon Resaca was simply a continuation of the attack upon Dalton and Rocky
            Face Ridge, and had taught the Confederate officers a dear lesson in the art of war; for
            while Jeff Davis, Beauregard, and a few others of the Southern leaders and the Southern
            press were continually flattertering the troops of the South and disparaging those of
            the North, and sneering at the ability of the Union commanders, General Johnston more
            justly estimated the soldierly qualities of the rank and file, and judged more correctly
            of the transcendant ability of their matchless leader, General Sherman. He had been
            furnished much new evidence on which  to base his
            judgment. He, therefore, left no stone unturned that would ward off a blow or obstruct
            his opponent's pathway and delay his progress. He well knew that it was to be a battle
            to the death, and that with Sherman's matchless generalship and fertility of resources,
            sustained by the indomitable firmness and fortitude of the soldiers of the Northwest, he
            was a foeman worthy of the steel of the choicest legions of any nation's forces directed
            by their best military genius. He knew, too, that Sherman and his lieutenants would push
            every advantage gained to the last, leaving him no hope of escape, except by the most
            ceaseless vigilance and untiring and persistent effort. Therefore, Johnston built works,
            fortifying, at every defensible point, and invited the attack of the Union forces, for
            while acknowledging Sherman's ability and skill, he also regarded him as "audacious and
            enterprising." Thus it was that Sherman came to be confronted by breastworks upon almost
            every mile of his route to Atlanta. Only in this way was it possible for Johnston to
            place his command upon a footing of equality with Sherman's incomparable legions as they
            marched triumphantly and resistlessly onward into the very heart of the Confederacy.
            Never, no not even at Vicksburg, had the enemy been so staggered and beaten. If
            constantly assaulted in works of the strength which his troops built, the equalization
            of the two armies would soon be brought about when the advantage would be wholly upon
            Johnston's side; for while his friends and supplies were all round him and ever at hand
            to aid and assist him, Sherman was surrounded by enemies ready to injure and betray him,
            and his friends and supplies were far away. It required long and tedious transportation
            to bring them to hand ready for use. But Johnston made the most of his opportunities,
            and though maneuvered out of the impregnable position at Dalton, beaten and out-flanked
            at Resaca, and forced to leave the place, he only gave the ground he was compelled to
            yield and hold on to Calhoun as though he meant to give battle to retain its
            possession.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXII.  RESACA TO PICKETT'S MILLS.
          Across the Oostanaula—Calhoun—Adairsville—Oothcaloga
            Valley—Kingston—Cassville—A Three Days' Res-t-Across the
            Etowah—Where the Different Commands Crossed—A Wild Wilderness—Burnt
            Hickory—New Hope Church—The Battle of Pickett's Mills—The
            Eighty-sixth's Part in this Engagement—Colonel Dick Wounded—The Regiment's
            Loss.
          Wood's division having crossed the Oostanaula river on the afternoon of the 16th,
            pressed on in pursuit of the enemy, and having covered three or four miles was halted
            and pickets detailed. But the progress was slow as the army was now divided, and it was
            not deemed prudent to get too far from support. The skirmishers in front could be
            plainly heard as they took up their duties when their line came upon that of the enemy.
            It was sharp and determined, Johnston no doubt holding this place to gain time. It is
            now well known that Johnston decided to make a stand in the lower part of the Oothcaloga
            Valley near Calhoun, but upon looking over the ground carefully and more fully
            considering all points, he decided the valley too wide in which for him to give battle,
            and determined to retire farther up the valley where he was informed by his engineers
            that a line quite defensive might be found a mile or two north of the town of
            Adairsville. A strong rear guard was left in the vicinity of Calhoun to make a show of
            giving battle, and thus delay the advance of Sherman's forces, and thereby give more
            time for fortifying and preparing for the expected contest farther south.
          On the morning of the 17th of May, the Eighty-sixth drew rations. Having filled their
            haversacks full of hard tack, bacon, sugar, coffee and salt, the men were ready  for duty. The regiment resumed the advance. Wood's division
            took the railroad as its line of march, with Hazen's brigade in front, while Newton's
            division was on a wagon road to the left or east of the railroad. The progress was slow
            on account of the resistance of the enemy. Still Hazen pushed ahead with his
            characteristic energy. The skirmishing was lively, although great caution had to be
            used. About 9 a. m. the Eighty-sixth passed through Calhoun, a town of perhaps 350 or
            400 inhabitants, and the county seat of Gordon county. Here Hazen had had a sharp fight
            with the rear guard of the enemy, he having built a strong barricade and maintained a
            bold front for some time, but he pressed him so hotly he gave ground, retiring, however,
            in good order. As the Third brigade advanced the skirmishing in front and on the flanks
            continued at a brisk rate, showing the enemy to be in force in its front as well as
            Newton's on the left, and McPherson's on the right. About 2 o'clock Wood and Hazen had
            pushed the column on the railroad so energetically forward that the division trains,
            following on the wagon road almost parallel with the railroad, were abreast of Newton's
            division skirmishers, which were mistaken for that of the enemy and were fired into.
            This caused considerable excitement and some confusion and delay. But Hazen pressed on
            and about 4 o'clock in the afternoon came up against a strong line of the enemy well
            posted, which manifested a disposition to give battle. The skirmishers had a hot time of
            it. The shells flew thick and fast over and about the Eighty-sixth as it advanced, but
            it moved steadily and quietly forward and took the position assigned. The furious
            galloping of staff-officers, aides and orderlies, here and there, betokened the rapid
            transit of orders, and the intended speedy concentration of troops for the purpose of
            giving the enemy battle should he be so disposed, as his present attitude indicated.
          It seems strange that so many errors are made in writing the history of this campaign.
            by those, too, who were active participators in its momentous movements and battles.
            General Cox, in speaking of the advance on the 17th, says:  "Sherman was now with Newton's division in advance, and had a narrow escape from
            shots of the enemy's artillery as he was reconnoitering, the group about him having
            attracted their fire." The statement in regard to the incident of General Sherman's
            being exposed to the enemy's fire is no doubt true, but it is misleading as one would
            infer from it that Newton had the advance of the corps, and he alone was exposed to the
            enemy's fire, whereas throughout almost the entire day Wood's division on the railroad
            was leading that of Newton on a parallel wagon road in pursuit of the enemy, and was
            constantly skirmishing with him. But even General Sherman, in his "Memoirs," lends
            credibility to the statement of Newton's being in advance by the following statement of
            the same incident: "On the 17th toward evening, the head of Thomas' column, Newton's
            division, encountered the rear-guard of Johnston's army near Adairsville. I was near the
            head of the column at that time, trying to get a view of the position of the enemy from
            an elevation in an open field. My party attracted the fire of a battery; a shell passed
            through the group of staff-officers and burst just beyond which scattered us promptly."
            Notwithstanding the seeming contradiction of General Cox and General Sherman, General O.
            O. Howard, himself then commanding the Fourth army corps, and an officer who usually
            knew the order of marching of his men, their order and lines in or out of battle, in his
            report, says: "The enemy's custom is when retreating, to form his rear-guard of cavalry,
            with a battery or section of artillery, sometimes strengthened by infantry. During this
            day's march the resistance was unusually great. He formed three lines, some half or
            three-quarters of a mile apart, and barricaded with rails, seeking the cover of the
            woods with open fields in his front. As soon as we succeeded in driving the first line
            it passed to the rear of the third, and in some new and favorable position made another
            line. However as we moved in two columns, we were enabled to make considerable progress.
            The resistance increased as we approached Adairsville. General Newton continued to
            deploy regiments as skirmishers until he had a  large
            brigade engaged. General Wood abreast of him also skirmished heavily.
            About 4 p. m. it was found we had come upon the enemy's infantry in considerable force.
            Preparations were made immediately to assault and carry the position, if possible; but
            it required time to bring up the troops and get them in readiness. General Thomas not
            deeming it best, on account of the nearness of night to make a formal attack, the
            movement already set on foot was postponed. Yet a real engagement was going on, since
            both parties continued to re-enforce their skirmish lines until they were tantamount to
            a line of battle. The enemy opened upon our column with artillery, to which our
            batteries replied with spirit. During the night the enemy withdrew."
          Every indication on the evening of the 17th appeared to point to the offering of battle
            by General Johnston on that evening or the following day. Therefore, Sherman ordered
            McPherson, who was somewhat extended on the right, to close upon Thomas and prepare to
            give battle, should the enemy stand his ground. Sherman was very anxious, at this stage
            of the campaign, to bring on a general engagement in this comparatively open country,
            before Johnston should reach the mountains of Allatoona and the rough and broken country
            along the Etowah river. Johnston contemplated giving battle, seeking to secure a good
            position with his flanks protected by high and broken ground, so that Sherman's numbers
            would be of little advantage, and then stand his ground, give battle and cripple Sherman
            until their forces would be equalized. But "finding that the breadth of the Oothcaloga
            Valley exceeded so much the front of his army, properly formed for battle that he could
            obtain no advantage of ground, ordered the troops to march for Cassville." So the
            expected battle between these two grand armies was, at least, postponed, although the
            following day and for two or three days, Sherman expected Johnston to make a decided
            stand.
          On the morning of the 18th the Eighty-sixth led the column of Wood's division, marching
            as before on the railroad. Colonel Dick kept the regiment well up to the skirmishers as
               they advanced. Starting at 6 o'clock a. m. Adairsville
            was soon reached, as Johnston once more had deemed it prudent to withdraw. At
            Adairsville the command was halted. There seemed to be a hurrying forward of troops, and
            frequent consultations of corps and army commanders, which indicated very important
            movements on hand and a probable engagement. Generals Logan, McPherson, Thomas, Howard,
            and Sherman were all at Adairsville some time during the day to talk over the situation.
            It turned out afterward the cause of all this consultation and worry arose from the
            doubt existing in the minds of these Generals as to the route taken by General Johnston
            with his main force. Therefore, great caution was necessary not to fall into a trap
            which might be laid by the wily foeman. Reports from the advanced guards, consultations,
            and the various means of information used by generals of armies to learn the exact
            situation of the enemy,were made, while the, Fourth corps lay here waiting for McPherson
            to pass his command through to other roads on the right, having been called in from the
            roads upon which they were marching when a battle seemed imminent. These roads, too,
            carried him farther away from the rest of the command. Hooker, too, with the Twentieth
            corps, had been concentrated here in the vicinity of Adairsville. He now passed to the
            left and took the direct road to Cassville. The Fourth corps followed the line of the
            railroads, marching on a wagon road just east of the railroad, this road leading to
            Kingston. The Eighty-sixth resumed the march about 2 o'clock p. m. Great caution was now
            deemed necessary in the advance. The regiment kept close to the skirmishers as they
            continued to move. Near sundown the enemy's rear guard was struck, well posted and in
            force. A lively skirmish at once ensued. The skirmishing, before going into bivouac,
            seemed a regular evening entertainment—a sun-set festivity which could not be
            dispensed with. The Eighty-sixth bivouacked on a high hill close to the skirmish line.
            From this high hill a good view of the surrounding country could be secured for some
            miles. Wood was now within about three miles of Kingston. Hooker was on his immediate
            left, with Schofield  still to the left of Hooker,
            McPherson with the Army of the Tennessee being to the right, all being ready for
            battle.
          Many historians record the capture of Kingston as taking place on the 18th of the month
            by the Fourth corps, but this is evidently a mistake. The Eighty-sixth was in advance of
            Wood's division, which division was on the direct road from Adairsville to Kingston, and
            skirmished with the enemy in the evening of the 18th, bivouacking as before stated, in
            the face of the enemy two or three miles to the north of Kingston, a thing wholly
            improbable if any part of the corps had secured possession of the town. On the morning
            of the 19th the column resumed its onward march about 6 o'clock, feeling its way until
            it became evident that the enemy had continued his retreat farther south. However, there
            was some skirmishing as the town of Kingston was reached. As the advance guard drove the
            enemy the command marched forward at a more lively pace, and the Eighty-sixth reached
            Kingston, the point of junction of the Rome railroad with the main line from Chattanooga
            to Atlanta, about noon. The day was exceedingly hot and the troops felt the effects of
            the great heat and their rapid marching. However, just east of the town they were given
            a good rest and permitted to get dinner. Wood's division remained here until about 2
            o'clock p. m. By this time General Sherman had completed his plans, given his orders,
            and had the various columns in motion on their proper routes to concentrate upon
            Johnston's position. It was understood that the Southern forces were concentrated at
            Cassville, five miles to the east of Kingston, and there awaited to give battle, having
            reached "the last ditch" again. Howard and Wood were equal to any in energy and push.
            Passing to the left, to the southeast of Kingston perhaps a mile, the command struck the
            enemy's skirmishers. But they were no raw recruits and they struck back quite
            effectively. They were borne back by weight of numbers. They maintained their ground
            with great stubbornness, only yielding when forced to do so. Beatty's brigade, and in
            fact the whole army, was at once formed in the order of battle and moved forward as if
            to the attack. The Eighty-sixth  closed down upon the
            skirmish line, and it in turn pressed the enemy vigorously, driving him back inch by
            inch. Now the battle between very strong skirmish lines began in dead earnest. The enemy
            was in bad humor and spiteful; the Union boys were exultant and determined, and so the
            battle raged. Just as dark came, a determined push was made and the enemy crowded back
            some distance. The enemy fell back with such stubbornness that it seemed certain a night
            battle would be fought. The Eighty-sixth, close to the skirmish line and fully exposed
            to the enemy's fire, was ordered to lie down, and the order was most cheerfully obeyed.
            The battle was fiercely contested for some time after dark, but at length the fire
            slackened and then died out. The main line was not permitted to rest. Without any supper
            the men were ordered to intrench. They were soon busily engaged, and ere the morning's
            dawn lit up the east they had a substantial line of breastworks. But it was at a great
            cost—loss of sleep and great exertion after a day's marching and the the nerve
            strain incident to battle.
          A rebel authority speaking of this day's fighting, calls the first contest of the day,
            the "Battle of Kingston," and the second one, the "Battle of Cassville." He says of the
            first skirmishing: Heavy skirmishing between Howard's Federal and Hardee's Confederate
            troops on the southeast side of town, Kingston, in the morning. The Confederates retired
            toward Cassville; but before noon a sharp fight occurred near an old mill by the
            railroad, about a couple of miles east of Kingston, during which was considerable
            artillery firing on the part of the Federals." Of the battle in the evening, known as
            the "Battle of Cassville," the same writer says: "Heavy cannonading from the opposing
            batteries, and obstinate fighting between the lines of the two armies." General Sherman
            says: "Thomas' head of column which had followed the country roads along side of the
            railroad, was about four miles east of Kingston, towards Cassville, when, about noon I
            got a message from him that he had found the enemy, drawn up in line of battle, on some
            extensive open ground about half way between Kingston and Cassville, and  that appearances indicated a willingness and a preparation
            for battle. Hurriedly sending orders to McPherson to resume the march, to hasten forward
            by roads leading to the south of Kingston, so as to leave for Thomas' troops and trains
            the use of the main road, and to come up on his right, I rode forward rapidly over some
            rough gravel hills, and about six miles from Kingston found Thomas, with his troops
            deployed; but he reported that the enemy had fallen back in echelon of
            divisions, steadily and in superb order into Cassville."
          Johnston had now been beaten back some forty or fifty miles, and it was having a bad
            effect on the morale of his troops, and he determined to make a stand.
            He had done this several times, but strong reasons had forced him each time to give it
            up and fall back. But now he intended making a stand just south of Cassville where his
            troops took a strong position which he says, "That I remember as the best that I saw
            occupied during the war." But once again he was doomed to disappointment, for owing to
            objections urged by both Hood and Polk to making a decisive stand at this point,
            Johnston once more decided to withdraw. Consequently when it was expected that he would
            give battle on the morning of the 20th, he was not to be found. He had "hopped the twig"
            and "gone glimmering to the "misty mountain top." The Eighty-sixth was relieved from the
            front line early on the morning of the 20th, but as the enemy had again retreated, it
            made but little difference. On this day the Nineteenth Ohio rejoined the brigade, having
            been on detached duty guarding trains since leaving McDonald Station.
          A part of the Twenty-third corps pushed on after the retreating enemy and drove the
            rear guard out of Cartersville. He continued his retreat, crossing the Etowah river and
            burned the railroad and wagon road bridges. Johnston had taken up a strong position with
            his center at Allatoona Pass. The mountains to the left and right of the Pass rendered
            his position a very strong one, easily defended and almost impossible to attack
            successfully in front. Preparations  were immediately
            begun for a movement to the right flank to turn the position now occupied by Johnston's
            forces. On the 21st and 22d the Union forces rested from their labors. But the excessive
            heat prevented them from recuperating as much as they would have done under more
            favorable circumstances. On the 22d the divisions' commissaries issued three days'
            rations to the troops, while they received twenty days' rations from the General
            Commissary of the Army. Preparations were completed on this day for the next move.
          Many rumors, reports, and "grapevine telegrams" were going the rounds of the bivouac of
            the troops in regard to the next move the army was to make. It was well-known that it
            would be arduous duty whatever it was. Johnston's army was the chief object of
            attention, and it now held an impregnable position across the Etowah river. It was
            impossible to cross in his immediate front and attack with success, consequently a flank
            movement was the only hope, and had to be made to secure a foot-hold on the far side of
            the river. Sherman says: "I made orders on the 20th to get ready for the march to begin
            on the 23d. The Army of the Cumberland was ordered to march for Dallas by Euharlee and
            Stilesboro; Davis' division then in Rome by Van Wert; the Army of the Ohio to keep on
            the left of Thomas, by a place called Burnt Hickory; and the Army of the Tennessee to
            march for a position a little to the south, so as to be on the right of the general
            army, when grouped about Dallas." These orders were issued on the 22d, but they were not
            followed out strictly as subsequent events proved. On the 23d General Beatty was
            compelled to relinquish the command of the brigade on account of serious illness, when
            the command was devolved upon Colonel Fred Knefler, of the Seventy-ninth Indiana.
          In the meantime the soldiers were taking their ease, resting up, repairing clothing and
            haversacks, bathing in the streams and getting themselves in the best possible shape for
            the coming struggle, which all felt sure was close at hand. On the 23d the army was in
            motion. The Eighty-sixth  was ready, but had to wait for
            orders. The Twentieth corps passed its bivouac going to the right. Wood's division moved
            out about 1 o'clock p. m., marching to the southwest and "crossed the Etowah river at
            Gillem's bridge, together with the entire Fourth corps. The Fourteenth corps, except the
            Second division which crossed at Rome, crossed at Island Ford, a few miles down the
            river, while the Twentieth corps crossed at Milam's bridge, a few miles above, on
            pontoons, the bridge having been burned. The Twenty-third corps crossed at the same
            place, following Hooker's corps. The Army of the Tenessee crossed at Wooley's bridge
            below the Fourteenth corps.
          The army was now in a country almost a wilderness wild, with but few roads, and those
            mere wagon ways cut through the forest. There was doubtless some uncertainty in regard
            to the route, as the command halted frequently and waited long. The march was continued
            after night, and Wood's division lay for some hours in the road near its place of
            bivouac. It was so late at night the command quietly lay down without preparing supper,
            even though the men were very hungry. General Sherman says: "The several columns
            followed generally the valley of the Euharlee, a tributary coming into the Etowah from
            the south, and gradually crossed over a ridge of mountains, parts of which had once been
            worked over for gold, and were consequently full of paths and unused wagon roads or
            tracks." The roads, many of them were in fact, mere paths, unused, in a wilderness of
            woods, and it became quite bewildering probably to follow the intended route.
          On the morning of the 24th the march was resumed about 9 o'clock. The pace was at first
            slow, but was gradually accelerated. At noon the command came to a still more broken
            section of country, probably the mountains referred to by General Sherman, with rougher,
            poorer roads and more tangled and wilder woods, a veritable wilderness. After a short
            halt for dinner about 1 o'clock, the march was continued at a slow pace until near
            sundown. It threatened rain, and the night was far from promising, and the men were  soon busily engaged preparing their evening meal and
            shelter from the threatening storm.
          On the morning of the 25th, after a night of rain, the men lay around their bivouac
            until about 10 o'clock, when they again resumed the march into the enemy's country. The
            march was slow and halting. It seems that from Burnt Hickory the Fourth and Fourteenth
            corps made a detour to the right, having to feel their way over unused country roads and
            mining tracks and trails. It was the intention that they should strike the VanWert and
            Dallas road some distance out from the latter place. But Hooker's coming in contact with
            the enemy, unexpectedly changed this part of the plan; for whenever Hooker got a chance
            to strike the enemy he struck right out straight from the shoulder and followed it up as
            he did on this occasion, as will be seen later. The country through which the corps
            passed must have been the wildest of the wild country in Paulding county, Georgia. Only
            at long distances was the merest semblance of a house seen. The tracks followed as roads
            wound around in and out of gulleys, over and around rocky hills, and through thickets as
            dense as the thickets of Chickamauga. The command probably had not covered a great many
            miles from the previous night's bivouac, when it was halted and lay in the road waiting.
            It lay here until 3 o'clock p. m. It then resumed the march through tangled woods and
            over a perfect labyrinth of winding paths and trails and meandering streams.
          When passing one of the few cabins of this wilderness one of the Eighty-sixth boys
            claims to have heard the following from the woman residing there: She said the "Yankees"
            couldn't fool her, she knew Sherman was "flanking" again. Upon being pressed to tell how
            she knew what Sherman was doing, she said they "couldn't fool her," she knew he was
            "flanking" because she had seen "his flanking machines" go by just a few minutes before,
            referring to a battery of artillery that had just passed the cabin. The fact of the
            matter was, that the whole great army was just at this time converted into a "great
            flanking machine," and this ignorant Georgia woman was not far wrong in her statement
               that she saw Sherman's "flanking machines" go by. She
            doubtless saw a very essential part of it, and one, too, that was to do some very
            effective work at an early day.
          While still in this dense forest and about 6 o'clock in the evening, musketry firing
            was heard on the left front some distance ahead. Hooker had run on to the
            enemy—Hood's corps—and at once attacked him with his usual impetuosity. He
            fought on this occasion as if it was necessary to beat the whole rebel army at once
            before other corps could come up and aid him and win part of the glory. The enemy was
            evidently in force and on the alert. The sharp rattle of musketry was sufficient
            evidence of a hard battle being fought. The command moved forward with more rapidity.
            About 8 o'clock it began raining, and the thunders of heaven, joined to those of battle,
            made the wilderness and hills roar again and again. The rain made the roads slippery,
            and up-hill and down-hill, marching was very tiresome and slow. Howard had orders to
            reinforce Hooker, and his corps pressed on, stopping at no obstacle, through the
            darkness over horrible roads, drenched to the bone by the deluge of water. Cox says:
            "The night was utterly black in its darkness and storm." About 10 o'clock, wading a
            stream knee deep, the regiment came to the point where the real battle began, and soon
            after to the immediate neighborhood of Hooker's corps. He had continued his attack after
            nightfall and had fought the enemy valiantly, but he was too strongly intrenched to be
            successfully assaulted. Hooker had driven him some distance, but had lost heavily and
            had failed to drive him from his fortified position at New Hope Church, the key to the
            point attacked. As the regiment passed along the road over the battle-field the wounded
            lay in the woods alongside the road on the damp ground. Their pale faces could be seen
            by the light of the fires that had been built by camp-followers, giving the men a
            glimpse of the after scenes of battle which are even more heartrending than those of the
            battle itself which are usually witnessed under great excitement and pass almost
            instantly from view.
          Wood's division wound its way slowly along the tortuous 
            road among the wounded to its position to the left of Newton's division, which had
            arrived early in the evening, and formed on Hooker's left. Wood's division, however, did
            not form a line that night with Newton and Hooker, but bivouacked to the left of the
            former, somewhat refused. Worn out with their long and laborious march and want of
            sleep, the men were almost used up and speedily sank, supperless, upon the damp earth to
            rest and sleep until morning. The bivouac was reached about 11 o'clock. A gloomy night
            with the prospect of a red day on the morrow, and for many days. Of this night a rebel
            author says: "The night, which came on, was very dark, with heavy rains; and there was
            much confusion in both armies, as they were endeavoring to assume position, facing each
            other, among the thickly-wooded hills, and each industriously working, though in
            darkness, to strengthen its ground against any sudden assault by its enemy." General
            Sherman says, of his night's rest and preparations for the next day: "I slept on the
            ground without cover, alongside of a log, got a little sleep, resolved at daylight to
            renew the battle, and to make a lodgment on the Dallas and Allatoona road if possible,
            but the morning revealed a strong line of intrenchments facing us, with a heavy force of
            infantry and guns. The battle was renewed and without success." When a general of a
            great army undergoes such hardships, it can be imagined what the life of a private
            soldier was only by those who have participated in such a tremendous campaign as
            this.
          The Eighty-sixth was up early and ready for business, for Colonel Dick never permitted
            it to be behind. The men lay, however, quietly at their bivouac until 8 or 9 o'clock.
            They were then ordered under arms and moved out close to the skirmish line. The lines
            were formed as though a general attack was to be made upon the enemy's position. The
            skirmishing was sharp all along the line, and the spiteful hiss of the musket balls was
            extremely annoying. The musketry fire at times assumed the magnitude of a battle,
            rolling as a great wave of sound from one end of the line to the other, and back again,
            as this, or that part of the line  renewed the struggle.
            About noon there was a general advance of the line of the Fourth corps and the musketry
            fire grew quite severe, and was steadily maintained for sometime. The enemy's batteries,
            too, opened a hot fire, but owing to the density of the timber and the heavy growth of
            underbrush they were unable to deliver a very effective fire, although it was
            sufficiently accurate to make it very annoying. This move of the Fourth corps served the
            double purpose of completing the alignment of the forces and of developing pretty
            accurately the position of the enemy, enabling the officers to locate his line and the
            position of his batteries. Late in the evening Wood's division withdrew from its
            advanced position, drew three days' rations to do four, and bivouacked for the night.
            These were "days of danger and nights of waking," as frequently the picket firing was
            sharp and of such volume as to betoken an attack, which caused the division to be called
            into line and held in readiiness until the firing subsided.
          Save one or two wakings caused by the booming of exploding shells near, from the rebel
            batteries, the Eighty-sixth slept soundly on the night of the 26th, and it was well.
            Good rest is conducive to steadiness of nerve and the Eighty-sixth, and all of Wood's
            division, needed all of its fortitude on the 27th, as will be seen further on.
          A rebel author writing of this day's doings, the 27th, around the lines, says: "A
            determined attack by the Federals, under cover of a furious artillery fire, upon
            Clayton's and Baker's brigades of Stewart's division, behind breastworks they had thrown
            up on the battle-field of May 25. The Federals were repulsed with considerable loss. The
            fire of solid shot, shell, grape and cannister, from the Federal battery of Parrott guns
            continued all the morning and from 4 p. m. till nearly dark with terrific effect. The
            Confederate works were riddled and their loss was severe. They finally practically
            silenced the battery by sharp-shooters detailed for that purpose by General Baker." This
            author admits the severe treatment of the enemy in the neighborhood of New Hope Church.
            Yet he manages to weave in his admission two or  three
            false statements which make the whole very misleading. First, he speaks of the rebels as
            being behind works which they had "built on the battle-field of New Hope Church," as
            though they had not had works to fight behind on the 25th. "They succeeded in silencing
            the battery, and the Federals were repulsed with considerable loss," says this writer.
            Now, the fact is, it was only a strong demonstration, made to attract attention and
            deceive the Confederates from the real purpose of the Federals which was to be an attack
            far to the Federal left and was intended to be a decisive blow.
          On the 27th the Eighty-sixth was astir by the time it was light, and was soon ready for
            the duties of the day. About 9 a. m. Colonel Dick gave the order "Fall in." The men were
            in line in an instant. Then came the order, "Take, arms," "Shoulder, arms." Moving by
            the left flank the regiment passed to the rear of the Twenty-third army corps. After the
            column was uncovered to the left of the Army of the Ohio, and was liable to be attacked,
            it proceeded very slowly and cautiously. The front was covered by a strong line of
            flankers. After passing well to the left of the Twenty-third corps, once or twice the
            command "fronted" and advanced in battle array, the flankers acting as skirmishers, but
            finding the enemy in front in force and well intrenched it would withdraw and continue
            its march to the left. As the object was to turn the enemy's right flank the command was
            to work its way to the extreme right of the enemy, then attack with vigor. The attack
            was to be made by Wood's division of the Fourth corps, and was to be supported by
            Johnson's division of the Fourteenth corps, on the left, and by McLean's brigade of the
            Second division of the Twenty-third corps, on the right It will readily be seen that the
            object of Newton's and Stanley's attack in the vicinity of New Hope Church was a mere
            demonstration to attract attention to their front, and create the impression that an
            assault was contemplated in that locality and thus prevent a concentration of large
            masses of troops against Wood's and Johnson's divisions, which were detached from the
            main army  and were in danger of being repulsed and
            overwhelmed before assistance could reach them. This tedious process was continued until
            6 o'clock in the evening, when a point was reached where it was thought the line
            over-lapped that of the enemy, and where the attack was to be made. A rebel cavalry
            picket was captured here, and this perhaps led Generals Howard and Wood to suppose there
            was nothing in their immediate front but cavalry. But if so they were sadly mistaken as
            subsequent events will fully show. As soon after the capture of the rebel cavalryman as
            an alignment of the troops could be completed, the assault was ordered. Hazen's Second
            brigade led the charge, then Willich's or Gibson's First brigade, then Beatty's Third
            brigade.
          The Eighty-sixth was placed upon the extreme right of the division, and was not in the
            assaulting column proper. But it was advanced close up to the enemy's
            intrenchments—a narrow open field intervening between its position and the enemy's
            works—in the edge of a woods in plain view of the batteries of the enemy. He had
            full and fair play and it is needless to say that he did not idle any time away, but
            kept his guns in a perfect blaze. The Eighty-sixth was thus exposed to a most terrific
            fire of artillery during the whole time the battle raged on the left. As the
            Eighty-sixth threatened the enemy's line and his batteries, by its proximity, it drew
            his fire which should otherwise been turned against the storming column. Thus it
            shielded and protected the troops that made the assault and saved them from destruction,
            as they would literally have been cut to pieces. As it was they were quite severely
            handled. The rattle of musketry was terrific, but the troops with dauntless courage
            fought their way to within a few feet of the breastworks, and came well-nigh being
            victorious, and probably would have won, had not timely reinforcements come to the aid
            of the sorely pressed defenders. The lines of attack were subject to a terrific
            cross-fire of musketry and suffered heavily. Beaten back they rallied and renewed the
            assault time and again, but it was futile. The enemy was too well intrenched. Pat
            Cleburne, the most daring fighter of Johnston's army,  was
            there with the flower of the South, and they fought as brave men fight.
          While the battle raged on the left, the Eighty-sixth lay under a sharp musketry fire,
            and the most terrific cannonading which the regiment ever experienced, and that, too,
            without lifting a hand in self-defense. A number of batteries concentrated their fire
            upon the regiment. Shells shrieked and burst all around, solid shot tore the limbs from
            trees overhead, which fell with a crash threatening to crush the men, and added to the
            horrid din, grape-shot and canister rattled like hail about and whipped the underbrush
            and shrubs like a hurricane, but the Eighty-sixth never flinched. The men had stood the
            fire about as long without doing anything as Hoosier patience cared to do. The cries and
            groans of the wounded added to the unpleasant features of the terrible situation. In the
            midst of a particularly fierce blast of the enemy's batteries the word ran along the
            line of the regiment that Colonel Dick had been killed. This was very disheartening to
            the boys for he was greatly loved and trusted as a commander. Fortunately this proved to
            be a mistake, but he was very badly wounded, and had to be carried from the field,
            severely and dangerously wounded by an exploding shell, his life probably being saved by
            his saber, which broke the force of the stroke of the flying fragment. His steel
            saber-scabbard was shattered by the terrible blow. Still the battle raged and it was
            still undecided, and had General Johnson, with his division, done his full duty, success
            might have crowned the efforts.
          Far into the night it was continued between the lines of battle. But at length the
            order was given to withdraw from the immediate front of the enemy's work. General
            Willich's, or Gibson's, brigade bugler sounded the "recall." This was the signal for the
            enemy to attack in return, and he swarmed over the works and made a fierce onset,
            expecting to create a panic and stampede the entire command, but not so. Howard, Wood,
            Hazen, Beatty, Gibson were all upon the ground and were men of unflinching courage and
            nerve, and soon had their troops well in hand. The enemy, however, succeeded  in capturing some wounded and a number of men who had taken
            refuge in a ravine immediately in front of Cleburne's works. Wood soon had his division
            in good shape, and was ready to give the enemy a warm reception if he attempted to push
            out beyond the immediate front of his works whose protecting cover would not be so
            easily reached. In Cox's account of this battle he says: "When the preparations were
            completed, and the troops had rested a few, minutes, the order to advance to the attack
            was given. Hazen led boldly forward, and the enemy's skirmishers were quickly driven
            within the works, which he promptly assaulted. His left seemed still to outflank the
            position and it pushed forward confident of success. The movement of Johnston's division
            still farther to the left brought it near to Pickett's Mill, on a tributarry of Pumpkin
            Vine creek, and the leading brigade—Scribner's—receiving a fire in flank
            from across the stream, halted and faced in that direction. Through some mistake
            McLean's movement on the right did not result as expected, and Wood's column was
            assailed with a furious cross-fire of artillery and musketry in front and on both
            flanks. Wood was forced to retire, which he did deliberately, and halted upon a ridge a
            little in rear and on the right; Johnson connected with him, continuing the line, with
            the left curving backward and making a strong refused flank in the direction of the mill
            and the creek. * * This affair was a costly one, for Howard
            reported a total loss of about fifteen hundred. The ground gained was nevertheless very
            valuable, for it enabled the whole left wing to swing forward so far as to cover and
            conceal the extension of Sherman's line toward the Ackworth road, and protect the
            Alatoona road upon which his cavalry were operating.  * * Had
            Johnson noticed that he was first attacked in flank by cavalry only, and pushed
            Scribner's brigade straight on in support of Hazen, whilst he took care of the horsemen
            and another brigade of his division, the determined attack of the Fourth corps men would
            probably have been successful. The ground, however, was a dense wood broken into
            ravines, where nothing could be seen, and where embarrassments were scarcely  less than in a night attack. Under the
              circumstances the wonder is, not that the attack failed, it is rather that Howard was
              able to withdraw in order, carrying off his wounded; and that he did so proves the
              magnificent steadiness and courage of his officers and men." So writes General
            Jacob D. Cox, one among the bravest and best division commanders in all Sherman's grand
            army, and it is no mean compliment to the troops of Wood's division.
          While the Eighty-sixth was not in the assault proper, perhaps no regiment in the entire
            division was situated in so trying a position. For it is a well known fact to all
            experienced soldiers that to hold troops under a withering and destructive fire, without
            a return of the fire or any action whatever on their part, is of all the duties of a
            soldier the most trying and difficult, and is at all times the severest test of the
            steadiness and nerve of soldiers. That the Eighty-sixth maintained its ground in this
            exposed position without a quiver is sufficient to stamp it, in rank and file, as one
            composed of unflinching soldiers. Much depended upon its holding this ground, for had it
            given way the enemy could have turned Wood's right flank and probably cut off both Wood
            and Johnson from the rest of 'the army, and either capture or destroy them before
            reinforcements could have reached them through the tangled woods.
          One rebel account of this battle characterizes it as "a bloody struggle between
            Cleburne's division and Sherman's left, the Fourth corps." Another and more extended
            account is as follows: "Late in the afternoon of the 27th, a bloody struggle ensued
            between Cleburne's division of Hardee's corps, aided by a portion of Wheeler's
            dismounted cavalry, and the Fourth army corps of Federals, under command of General
            Howard, in columns six lines deep, near Pickett's Mill and the road leading from Burnt
            Hickory. The latter assailed the Confederates with great courage, and pressed forward
            with fortitude under fire, which will ever be remembered with admiration by those who
            met them. The two lines were at one time within twenty paces of each other; but, at
            length, the Federals were compelled to give way  before
            the terrific storm of bullets; and fled for refuge to a ravine near by. About 10 o'clock
            that night, ascertaining that many of the Federals troops were in the ravine before
            them, the Confederates charged and drove them out, taking some 232 prisoners. The scene
            of the struggle was in a dense woods, with thick undergrowth, broken by hills and
            ravines, where nothing could be observed at a distance, and where neither side could see
            what was going on, except at the immediate point of conflict. The acknowledged loss of
            the Federals in this combat was about 1,500 men."
          General Johnston records the following touching incident of the fight: "When the United
            States troops paused in their advance, within fifteen paces of the Texan front rank, one
            of their color-bearers planted his colors eight or ten feet in front of his regiment,
            and was instantly shot dead; a soldier sprang forward to his place, and fell also, as he
            grasped the color-staff; a second and a third followed successively, and each received
            death as speedily as his predecessors; a fourth, however, seized and bore back the
            object of soldierly devotion."
          These rebel accounts err in this: They state that the battle was between Cleburne's
            division, assisted by a portion of Wheeler's cavalry and the Fourth corps. Now, the fact
            was, the battle on the part of the Union troops was fought wholly by Wood's division of
            the Fourth corps, except a few volleys fired by some regiments of Scribner's brigade of
            Johnson's division of the Fourteenth corps, there being but these two divisions of Union
            troops on the battle-field. Had Johnson pushed Scribner on and supported Hazen's left,
            as pointed out by Cox, there would have been a fair chance of success for the gallant
            boys of Wood's division that fought so nobly. Johnson was severely condemned at the time
            for not doing his duty. Still it was a critical position, and one which with strange
            ground to travel over was liable to deceive the most careful, and it was a position,
            too, which if one was taken in flank by a sufficient force, would render disastrous
            defeat certain. Therefore, there is some excuse for General Johnson's failure to perform
            the full measure of  his duty promptly as he might have
            done under other circumstances.
          This battle was a notable one, and is known as the battle of Pickett's Mills, being
            fought near a mill of that name, on a branch of Pumpkin Vine creek. It is sometimes
            called the battle of Burnt Hickory, or Pumpkin Vine Creek. The battle-field is in
            Paulding county, Georgia, about eight miles from Ackworth on the Western and Atlantic
            Railway, nearly due west from Kenesaw mountain, and distant about ten miles from the
            latter point.
          About twenty of the Eighty-sixth were seriously wounded in this engagement, though none
            proved mortal. Besides the loss in numbers, the regiment felt most keenly the absence of
            Colonel George F. Dick. The men needed now his careful attention and long experience to
            keep the regiment in its then excellent condition. The Third brigade lost 301 officers
            and men, and the Third division lost 1,457. Of all the hard fighting during this long
            and eventful campaign, perhaps no division of the whole army lost so many men in so
            short a time as did Wood's division on this occasion—the 27th of May,
            1864—with the possible exception of Newton's Second division of the Fourth army
            corps on the 27th of June, in the grand assault upon Kenesaw mountain.
        
        
          CHAPTER XXIII.  PICKETT'S MILLS TO KENESAW.
          The Eighty-sixth on the Skirmish Line—Constant Fighting—Rainy and Hot
            Weather—A Perfect Hell Hole—Pine Mountain—Lost Mountain—Kenesaw
            Mountain—General Polk Killed on Pine Mountain—Captain L. V. Ream
            Wounded—Luke Cronkhite Fatally Wounded—The Assault on June 27—A
            Frightful Loss of Life—Kenesaw Mountain Abandoned by the Enemy—A Forward
            Movement.
          Wood's division remained in this position until the 6th of June, varying it slightly by
            changes in the lines. Constant skirmishing was kept up the whole time. On the night of
               the battle of Pickett's Mills, May 27, a heavy detail
            for the skirmish line was made from the Eighty-sixth, under command of Lieutenant D. H.
            Olive, of Company H. On account of the darkness of the night and the denseness of the
            woods, the line was most difficult to establish, especially as the enemy was in close
            proximity. A member of Company H was posted fifty yards in front of the skirmish line
            proper. The enemy sallied out to the left and drove in the line in his front. He then
            moved to his left, and had not the lone skirmisher beat a hasty retreat he would have
            been captured. The withdrawal of Wood's division had misled the enemy. He supposed that
            the Union troops had been completely routed and that they would be an easy prey for
            capture, but he was met with a firm resistance and soon retired behind his fortified
            lines.
          The two divisions, Wood's and Johnson's, had now thrown up temporary breastworks for
            their defense and felt comparatively secure, although separated by some distance from
            the main army. The skirmish line, however, had no such protection, and was constantly
            under fire and on a great nervous strain throughout the night. During the 28th an
            alignment of the troops was completed and works ordered to be built. This was done, and
            the detached left was placed in connection with the rest of the army, and the extension
            of the battle line toward the railroad was permanently secured. The lines of the
            intrenchments were generally pushed well up to those of the enemy, so that the
            skirmishers could not be thrown very far forward of the works, in many places not being
            more than a rod or so in advance of the main line of breastworks. The proximity of the
            lines caused a continual fire to be kept up between the skirmish lines and enforced a
            pretty general observance of orders to remain near the works. Sometimes, in fact, an
            occasional fire was kept up from the two lines of works without intervening lines of
            skirmishers. On the evening of the 28th a hot fire was maintained for sometime by the
            batteries with Beatty's brigade, Colonel Fred Knefler in command, and the skirmish fire
            grew in violence and spitefulness. Its vigor was owing to a desperate  charge made by the enemy upon the right wing of the
            army—the brunt of the battle falling upon Logan's command, of McPherson's army of
            the Tennessee. The skirmishing all round the long skirmish line of the whole army was
            brisk and intensely earnest as if it were only a prelude to a more desperate struggle,
            and this was kept up until after nightfall, in fact, more or less all night. The enemy
            had been beaten on the right and roughly handled, and no doubt feared a counter charge,
            and sought, by showing a bold front, to ward off any assault at this time.
          Early on the morning of the 29th, the report ran along the brigade line of battle that
            three companies of the Nineteenth Ohio had been captured by the enemy during the night,
            and that the enemy was expected to show an aggressive spirit and probably make an
            assault. The first part of the report, in regard to the capture, proved to be false, but
            the enemy certainly did show a very active animosity throughout the day. His skirmishers
            were industrious, and actively maintained an incessant fire during the forenoon. In the
            afternoon his batteries took up the gauge of battle and right valiantly maintained their
            cause for some hours by raining shot and shell upon the Union lines, the good
            breastworks alone saving the men from destruction. Toward evening the enemy's
            belligerent aggressiveness assumed a serious character. A line of attack was started for
            the Union works. The storming lines pressed gallantly forward, but met with many
            obstacles in their pathway. The skirmish line made a heroic resistance, while the
            artillery delivered such a terrific and destructive fire upon them that they failed to
            reach the range of the fire of the line of battle, at least, in the Eighty-sixth's
            front. About 11 o'clock at night the enemy made another attempt and the whole skirmish
            line of the Union forces was ablaze; batteries on both sides opened up and the roar of
            battle was deafening. It was all of the noise and magnificent display of a terrific
            night battle without its more dreadful realities, for the enemy finding Union men
            everywhere ready and willing to receive him, he speedily withdrew. These constant alarms
            and frequent attacks necessitated almost constant  vigils
            on the part of the Union troops, and was very wearing and exhausting on them. Perhaps at
            Dallas, New Hope, and Pickett's Mills, there was more spirited fighting than at any
            place defended by Johnston on this great and memorable campaign, and there was no point
            where there was not much determined fighting, from Rocky Face Ridge to Atlanta, where
            the two opposing armies came in contact; and the Eighty-sixth was nearly all the time on
            the front line here, "jammed" up against the fighting center of Joe Johnston's army.
          The 30th was but a repetition of the 29th—constant skirmishing with advances by
            the rebel lines. About dark the Eighty-sixth was ordered into line and stacked arms. The
            men were then permitted to break ranks and rest at will, but were ordered, to remain
            near their guns. Evidently the officers expected a repetition of the programme on the
            part of the enemy of the two previous nights. On the slightest indication of a move by
            the enemy the firing became brisk, so that there was an almost continual rattle of
            musketry until 12 o'clock at night. After a hasty breakfast, on the morning of May 31,
            the regiment was ordered into line. Moving promptly it advanced some distance in front
            of its former position. The alignment was completed quickly, when the men were ordered
            to fortify with all possible dispatch. The work was scarcely begun, when the enemy threw
            a strong line forward to reconnoiter. The firing at once became furious all round the
            lines. The enemy made several vigorous and determined charges in front and to the right.
            At different points on the line the enemy came well up to the main line of breastworks
            before he was repulsed and driven back. On the line of the Third brigade the Seventeenth
            Kentucky was at this time doing skirmish duty, and there were no better skirmishers in
            all Sherman's army. Here the Seventeenth was in its element, and it maintained the
            contest with greatly superior numbers with Spartan courage, and finally compelled the
            enemy to retire. Still he was determined and fought with courage for every possible
            advantage, and would only yield inch by inch when forced 
            to do so. In the afternoon of the 31st, three pieces or artillery were dragged through
            the thick woods and placed in position on the brigade line and opened fire upon the
            enemy. From this time forward it was quite evident that the enemy would take as well as
            give.
          In the afternoon of June 1, the Eighty-sixth received orders to arrange camp in regular
            order. This, the boys knew, was folly, and many of them expressed their opinion in
            regard to the order quite freely. Sherman was working to the left as rapidly as possible
            to reach the railroad, which was so necessary to assure him, at all times, a sufficient
            quantity of all needed supplies, and all felt it to be nonsense to fix up camp in
            regulation order. On this day Hooker's corps withdrew from its line of intrenchments,
            being relieved by McPherson, and moved to the left of the army. The usual skirmishing
            was indulged in throughout the day. The next day, June 2, was hot, and showery in the
            afternoon, the rain falling in torrents. Heavy cannonading was heard to the left,
            indicating the progress of the left wing as it neared the goal of the present struggle,
            Allatoona Pass and the railroad north of Ackworth. In the evening of the 2d, the
            Eighty-sixth was sent out upon the skirmish line. The usual brisk fire was maintained.
            The regiment was relieved by the Nineteenth Ohio, Colonel Manderson in charge, about 6
            o'clock p. m., June 3. Three-quarter rations of hard tack, sugar and coffee, and
            one-quarter rations of pickled pork were issued to the men after they reached camp.
          On Saturday morning, June 4, the command moved early, going to the right some distance
            and relieving General Jeff C. Davis' division of the Fourteenth corps. The intrenchments
            occupied by the Eighty-sixth here were within about two hundred yards of the enemy's
            outer works, and there were only about two rods of open timber in front, the rest of the
            distance being an open field. The enemy was in the edge of the woods on the farther side
            of the opening. This gave him almost a clear sweep, and the position was a critical one.
            The enemy already had the range perfectly, and whenever a man showed his head above the
            works a minie  ball hissed spitefully and dangerously
            near. In the afternoon the enemy opened upon the Eighty-sixth's position with artillery,
            and as it was at short range, he made the shot and shell crash in the timber overhead in
            an awful manner, and finished up by sweeping the deck with a rattling charge of
            grape-shot that tore the underbrush to the rear of the works like a cyclone. Scarcely
            had this fire ceased when a line of attack was started for the works, a little to the
            right of the position of the Eighty-sixth. With the rebel yell echoing from wood to wood
            and reverberating from hill to hill, on it came, but it was soon met with such a blaze
            of fire from the Union breastworks that the line quickly retreated, and sought the
            shelter of its works. The enemy's loss doubtless was light, as he stood fire so short a
            time. The Eighty-sixth, however, was alert and was not to be caught napping. At dark the
            regiment was ordered to strengthen its works. The entire regiment worked until midnight,
            making its parapet shot proof, and then the men retired for sleep and rest. When
            daylight dawned, many expected the enemy to be gone, but the sharp "ping" of the minie
            ball warned the men not to be reckless. However, about 7 o'clock the enemy fell back
            quietly, the main force doubtless having withdrawn during the night, leaving only a
            strong skirmish line to cover the movement. It was not to be supposed that he had gone
            far. A number of the Eighty-sixth visited the enemy's lines of intrenchments and found
            them very strong. Here on this line for about eleven days had been some of the severest
            attacks during this eventful campaign, particularly those made by Hooker on the 25th and
            Wood on the 27th. General Sherman speaking of these battles says: "This point, 'New
            Hope,' was the accidental intersection of the road leading from Allatoona to Dallas with
            that from Van Wert to Marietta, and from the bloody fighting there for the next week was
            called by the soldiers 'Hell Hole';" and this is about as good a description in brief as
            can be given of it. It was hot enough for almost anything, both in the way of fighting
            and the weather. Thus another decisive step in the campaign  had been taken. The progress had been steady and considering obstacles, rapid. The
            enemy had as yet been unable to stay Sherman's onward march. Here at New Hope and Dallas
            he had caused the most trouble and delay, but now he had been compelled to take another
            backward step, and the Union army, as a matter of course, was rejoicing and ready to go
            forward.
          The Eighty-sixth with the Third brigade remained in their position behind their
            intrenchments until about sunrise on the 6th of June, when they marched out toward the
            railroad in which direction the whole army was gradually moving. The day was excessively
            hot and the air sultry and oppressive. The command covered five or six miles, and
            bivouacked in the edge of a woods about 2 o'clock p. m. The fire of the skirmish lines
            could be heard sometime before the place of bivouac was reached. It continued steadily,
            but it was by no means brisk.
          At this bivouac a phase of camp-life was presented which surprised many not a little.
            It was a new experience, but one which was speedily comprehended. Fresh beef had been
            issued to the troops and notwithstanding the active interference of the butchers and
            others to protect it, scarcely was there a piece given out to the members of the
            Eighty-sixth that was not almost covered with "fly blows." Many of the boys swore
            roundly at this state of affairs, but it could not be helped. The meat was thoroughly
            scraped, washed, and hustled into a camp-kettle, covered with water, and quickly placed
            on a fire to cook. Even cooked beef had to be carefully watched and protected.
          The Eighty-sixth remained at its bivouac of the 6th until the 10th. The front line was
            skirmishing continually with the enemy in a mild sort of way, as though it was done just
            to keep in practice. On the 8th the army was reinforced by two divisions of the
            Seventeenth corps commanded by General Frank P. Blair. From the 5th to the 9th of June
            General Sherman was getting his forces well over toward the Western and Atlantic
            railroad, changing base from Kingston to Allatoona. In this movement the Twenty-third
               corps, General Schofield commanding, which was on the
            extreme left, stood fast while the rest of the army passed to his rear and formed on his
            left. McPherson reached the railroad in advance of Ackworth on the 7th. Schofield had
            now become the extreme right of the army, McPherson the left, and Thomas with the Army
            of the Cumberland, the center. The Fourth corps being the center of Thomas' army was
            also the center of Sherman's. On the 9th Sherman gave orders to move forward and feel
            for the enemy and get into position, being again ready for more active work. The weather
            had been rainy since the 5th, in fact, there had been more or less rain ever since the
            attack upon the enemy's position at New Hope Church began, but now it fell in still
            greater quantities. The Eighty-sixth moved about a half mile on the 10th, and about one
            mile on the 11th. Thus gradually working its way to the left to its position in the
            general alignment of the whole great army. On the 12th there was a tremendous fall of
            rain, especially in the afternoon it came down in torrents. On this day the Eighty-sixth
            did not move. There was lively skirmishing all day. Some members of the Eighty-sixth
            visited the Fifth Indiana battery, and from the position of the battery viewed the
            enemy's works on Pine mountain and the works extending to the right. The enemy's
            position was a strong one, and was well fortified, and he evinced a disposition to
            defend them to the last extremity. There was heavy cannonading in the evening all around
            the lines, the rebel batteries returning the fire of the Union batteries with much
            spirit, making altogether a magnificent display. During the 12th and 13th the
            Eighty-sixth was almost destitute of rations, which was anything but pleasant. The rain
            descended almost continually, which swelled the streams and rendered transportation by
            means of army wagons almost impossible, as well as delaying the intended movement of the
            troops. There was, however, continual skirmishing of a mild character, warming up at
            times when the batteries would try conclusions. This took place on the evening of the
            13th. Commencing on the extreme left with McPherson it passed to the  right; the batteries and skirmishers were quite busy for
            some time, but it was sharpest and longest maintained on the left where McPherson was
            advancing on Brush mountain. Sherman now had his forces well up to the enemy's position
            and was in fighting distance, near enough to strike out from the shoulder and take his
            enemy between the eyes, which might be said to be located upon Kenesaw and Pine
            mountains, from which point Sherman's every move could be observed.
          Johnston's new position was by nature a very strong one, and it was skilfully and
            magnificently intrenched. His main line extended from Brush mountain on his right to
            Lost mountain on the left. The key to this position was the double peaked mountain,
            Kenesaw, standing to the rear of the fortified line, now occupied and looming up high
            over all the surrounding mountains and country, rendering it a veritable Gibralter. In
            advance of Johnston's main line stood the now historic Pine Top, or Pine mountain. This
            commanding eminence was connected with the main line by strong intrenchments, but did
            not constitute any portion of them, and was not intended or expected to be held as a
            permanent position. Johnston's line from Brush mountain to Lost mountain was perhaps ten
            miles in length. Lost mountain was a little south of west of Brush mountain. Pine Top
            was nearly due west of Brush mountain, while Kenesaw was nearly due south of the latter.
            The four formed almost a diamond in shape, while Kenesaw, Pine Top and Lost mountain
            stood so as to form a triangle, the base, from Kenesaw to Lost mountain, being the
            largest. The main line of intrenchments being about mid-way between Pine Top and
            Kenesaw. This was a grand position, skilfully taken, and held with a masterly hand, and
            the enemy had been strongly reinforced and was confident. These things greatly improved
            the morale of Johnston's army.
          The Army of the Cumberland was in the center. Its corps was distributed from left to
            right as follows: Palmer's Fourteenth corps, Howard's Fourth corps, and Hooker's
            Twentieth corps. On the 14th Sherman directed that the 
            enemy should be pushed sharply at all points, without a direct assault upon his works,
            unless under the most favorable circumstances. But the lines closed down upon the enemy,
            tightening their grip, and Union skirmishers gave him battle everywhere. Thomas steadily
            pressed the right of the Fourteenth corps, and the left of the Fourth corps against the
            lines of intrenchment in the re-entrant angle between Pine Top and the enemy's main
            line, resulting in quite a battle. About noon the bugle at brigade headquarters sounded
            the "general call," and almost in an instant the Eighty-sixth was in line ready for
            battle. It moved to the left about a half or three-quarters of a mile, placing it in
            position on the left front of Pine Top, and its duty was to support Willich's brigade,
            now commanded by Colonel William H. Gibson. This brigade gallantly passed the enemy at
            all points in its front. The skirmish line was reinforced until it was about equal to a
            line of battle, and its fire was fiercely maintained until the hills and valleys once
            again echoed to the music, and the dense woods were wrapped in its stifling smoke.
          About 6 o'clock a number of Union batteries opened a hot fire upon the enemy, General
            Sherman himself directing the Fifth Indiana battery to open on a group of officers seen
            on the crest of Pine Top, observing the movements of the Union troops.* The Fifth was true as steel and efficiently
            served and soon dispersed the group. It proved to be General Johnston, General Hardee,
            and General Leonidas Polk. The latter was killed by an unexploded shell, and his loss
            was keenly felt by the enemy, as he was greatly loved by the whole people of the
            South.
          The Eighty-sixth kept well up to the First brigade. It finally bivouacked about 7
            o'clock and the boys ate their supper of hard tack, salt pork, and coffee, amid the
            thunderous roar of batteries and the finer, keener, crackling fire of the skirmish line.
            It had been a busy and trying afternoon and the prospect was for many, many more busy
            afternoons, and * Authorities differ as
              to whether it was Sherman or Thomas who gave this direction. Lossing says it was
              Thomas; others say it was Sherman.
             whole days and weeks to follow, and the prospect was
            fulfilled to the letter. Every man slept soundly on the rocky bed.
          On the morning of the 15th, the bugles sounded reveille at daybreak. The skirmishers
            had been busy the whole night through and had no doubt annoyed the enemy greatly by
            their incessant fire, while the Union troops had rested well, which rendered them fresh
            and active. Expectation was on tip-toe. All forenoon the cannon boomed and growled
            sullenly at the enemy on the left. The Fourth corps did not advance until between 1 and
            2 o'clock, Wood's division supporting Stanley's, and ready to take its place upon the
            line if opportunity offered. The lines of battle advanced some distance and came upon
            the intrenchments of the enemy. Here the battle opened in earnest and the Union forces
            pressing steadily on, captured one or two lines of works and secured possession of Pine
            mountain, and drove the enemy back into his main line of works, extending from Brush
            mountain to Lost mountain, the line being perhaps a mile in advance of Kenesaw mountain.
            The battle raged all along the line from left to right-from Brush mountain north and
            east of the railroad to Lost mountain on the Union right. The enemy was beaten at all
            points. General M. F. Force, on the left, captured the Fortieth Alabama, about 320
            strong. The Fourth corps took many prisoners in squads of five to thirty. Many of the
            prisoners professed to be tired of fighting, and of the war, and stated that many more
            still in the ranks were of the same state of mind. The enemy was kept closely engaged by
            the skirmishers even, when no line of attack was moving against him. Decided advantage
            had been gained by the Union forces during the day, and the men were encouraged
            accordingly. Schofield, on the extreme right, had gained a foot-hold beyond Allatoona
            creek near Lost mountain, but he had perhaps done the least fighting of any army corps
            during the day. Hooker had fought the enemy immediately on the right of the Fourth corps
            with his usual impetuosity, gaining possession of advantageous ground. The battle on the
            extreme left, fought by McPherson's  men, is known as the
            Battle of Noonday's Creek, that of the Fourth corps as the Battle of Pine Mountain, and
            that of Hooker's corps as the Battle of Gilgal (or Golgotha) Church.
          The Eighty-sixth bivouacked about 7:30 p. m. on the southeastern slope of Pine
            mountain. The minie balls whizzed at a lively rate in front and a little to the left,
            and it looked for a time very much as though there might yet be a night battle thrown in
            to make up good measure for the day's duty. As it was the Eighty-sixth ate its supper to
            the rattle of musketry and the roar of batteries, to the "ping" of the minie ball, and
            the shriek of shot and shell. The men were tired and were glad to sink anywhere.
          There was no general movement by the Fourth corps on the 16th, and the Eighty-sixth
            remained in bivouac on the slope of Pine Top. A number of the regiment went up to the
            top of the mountain where the enemy's evacuated works were, to take a look at the
            surrounding country. Far and near the eye ranged over the wondrous country, made still
            more wonderful by the gigantic labors of man now contending in a Titanic struggle for
            its mastery. From the summit of the mountain there could be seen a thickly wooded
            rolling country—a veritable panorama of hill and vale, of open field and shaded
            wood, divided by deeply running streams. To the left front of Wood's division lie the
            trim peaks of the mighty Kenesaw mountain, around whose base grim-visaged war was
            destined to rage in his wildest and most violent moods for days and weeks. Rugged, wood
            fringed, seamed by chasm and broken by rocky battlements, nature's own fortresses, it
            loomed up eighteen hundred feet above sea level. It is about three miles from Pine Top
            to Kenesaw mountain. Slightly in advance of, and somewhat farther to the right than
            Kenesaw, to the left, is the solitary peak of Lost mountain. Standing solitary and alone
            it loomed up over the surrounding wooded hills, a watchtower for Johnston's extreme
            left. Here on the part of the Union forces, General Schofield with the Twenty-third
            corps, kept watch and ward. The strong earthworks can be traced in their course from  right to left on the high ground which forms the water-shed
            between Mud creek and Allatona creek on the right, and Mud creek and Noyes' creek and
            Noonday creek on the left, Allatoona creek and Noonday being tributaries of the Etowah
            river, while the waters of Mud creek and Noyes' creek find their way to the
            Chattahoochee river, south of Kenesaw mountain. These streams play an important part in
            the great game of war to be played here. They have determined the location of Johnston's
            line of intrenchment.
          The gallant Fifth Indiana battery shelled the enemy at a furious rate, and delivered
            its shots with great accuracy. At the feet of the visitors, upon the chips, rocks, and
            stumps, is the blood of one of the martyrs of the Southern cause. Here fell two days
            before Lieutenant General Leonidas Polk, formerly Protestant Episcopal Bishop of the
            diocese of Louisiana. He was killed by an unexploded shell from one of the guns of this
            same Fifth Indiana battery. General Johnston and General Hardee narrowly escaped
            destruction from the same shell. A thin veil of light blue smoke rose from the skirmish
            line, enabling one to trace it for miles through wood as well as open field, and the
            rattle of musketry, mingled with the heavy detonations of the artillery, indicated that
            the struggle was still on.
          There was no general attack or advance by the Union forces on the 16th. Toward evening,
            however, a number of Union batteries became engaged with those of the enemy in a fierce
            artillery duel. The shrieking of shot and the bursting of shell added to the roar of the
            guns, and made a veritable pandemonium that was painful to the ear. This contest began
            about 5 o'clock p. m. and was maintained for an unusual length of time.
          General Schofield, with the Twenty-third corps, had gained a very decided advantage in
            position on the right during the 16th, which enabled him to enfilade a portion of the
            enemy's main line of intrenchments. This rendered Johnston's left untenable. But with
            his accustomed foresight that General had provided for this very emergency by
            constructing for his left another line of intrenchments, just  east of Mud creek. This line of works joined the old line at a point on a
            line between Pine Top and the west end of Kenesaw, not far from east of the head of Mud
            creek. To this line Johnston's left withdrew during the night of the 16th.
          General Sherman says: "On the 17th and 18th the rain again fell in torrents, making
            army movements impossible, but we devoted the time to strengthening our positions, more
            especially to the left and center, with a view gradually to draw from the left to add to
            the right; and we had to hold our lines on the left extremely strong, to guard against a
            sally from Kenesaw against our depot at Big Shanty." General Sherman is here probably
            writing from memory, without referring to his notes, as this statement does not agree
            with other writers who were on the ground and made notes of every day's contests.
            General Cox describes in his "History of the Atlanta Campaign" at some length the
            movements of the army, and the fighting. A rebel author says: "Part of Howard's corps,
            under cover of a heavy cannonade, charged the Confederate outer rifle pits, and after a
            close fight succeeded in holding these and forcing the Confederates back to their main
            line. During the night the Confederates made two unsuccessful efforts to recapture the
            lost position." This was on June 17. This Confederate's statement agrees very closely
            with the facts. The contest was stubborn, but the enemy was repulsed. During the entire
            day the Eighty-sixth was on the skirmish line. The little valley of the upper part of
            Mud creek resounded from morning until night with a sharp musketry fire. The firing was
            brisk, but probably not very destructive, as the enemy was well protected by rifle pits.
            Shortly after dark the Eighty-sixth was relieved, when it at once returned to the
            brigade and took its position in the front line, in rear of the intrenchments some
            little distance. Soon after the regiment had reached its bivouac the enemy charged upon
            Gibson's brigade immediately upon the left. The Third brigade expected and was ready to
            go to the assistance of its comrades of the First brigade, but it was not needed. The
            gallant First was equal  to the occasion, and repelled the
            enemy, held all points, took a firmer grip, and drove him back into his works and did it
            without assistance. The Fourth corps was in it from early morn until dewey eye, and in
            it every day. The attack was renewed later at night, but with no better success than the
            former one. The battle raged during the fore part of the night of the 17th, but the
            Fourth corps' position, defended by as sturdy a band of soldiers as ever shouldered a
            musket, was impregnable.
          It rained in torrents during the after part of the night of the 17th and during the
            morning of the 18th, swelling the streams until they ran as only mountain streams can
            run. Immediately after reveille the Eighty-sixth was moved out to the front line of
            intrenchments and took position ready for battle. The regiment breakfasted in the
            trenches. Notwithstanding the heavy fall of rain and the swollen condition of the
            streams, there was hard fighting around the lines of the Fourth corps between skirmish
            lines almost equal to lines of battle. The Fourth corps pressed the enemy at all points
            on its front, and especially on the front of Newton's and Wood's divisions. Cox says:
            "Howard threw forward Wood's and Newton's divisions, whose strongly supported line of
            skirmishers were able by a rush to carry the line of works in their front, capturing
            about fifty prisoners. Several counter-charges were made in the hope of regaining the
            line, but were repulsed." A rebel author says of the same contest: "Wood's and Newton's
            divisions of Howard's corps then made a strong forward movement and, after an obstinate
            struggle, by the aid of artillery fire, succeeded in capturing and holding a portion of
            the outer works of the Confederate line." This was a hot and malicious contest and tried
            the mettle of the men of both sides that were engaged. The advance threw the
            Eighty-sixty considerably forward of its former position. As soon as the alignment was
            completed the men intrenched themselves at once.
          After this forward movement on the part of the Union forces the enemy's advanced lines
            were withdrawn, but he held on to his main line of works; but he was evidently preparing
               to retire. Hooker and Schofield were swinging round and
            closing in on the enemy's position. There was considerable shifting of the line back and
            forth as it was found the alignment was not satisfactory. Skirmishing and fighting
            continued with brief intervals of rest. The Eighty-sixth moved to the left some
            distance, but did not remain there long, moving to the right somewhat farther than
            before, and taking an exposed position on the left bank of a. stream, probably an
            unimportant tributary of Mud creek, but now it ran full and strong. The Eighty-sixth
            relieved troops here that had already intrenched themselves in this position. It was an
            uncomfortable position. The waters of the little stream came up almost to the works on
            the right flank of the regiment. A rod or so in the rear of the line of works the ground
            was low and water was plentiful, in short the men were water and mud bound, yet this was
            no protection. The shells were dropping here and there, in fact, all around in a
            murderous manner. It looked like the Eighty-sixth was pickled and was now about to be
            put to soak. Some of the incidents of the day were ludicrous in the extreme, or would
            have been if the great danger had not given things a more serious cast. A comrade was
            hungry and thought something for the inner man would be beneficial to a man in his
            situation. The more he thought about the matter the sharper grew his appetite. His
            longings for hard tack and old government Java overcame his caution and made him brave,
            and during a moment when the enemy's fire slackened he prepared his coffee, procured
            water, righted up a fire in the rear of the works, and placed his coffee-pot on to boil.
            Unfortunate move, luckless moment, he had scarcely succeeded in getting his coffee-pot
            adjusted on the rails, when a shot came screaming and tipped the rails and upset the pot
            in the fire and frightened the hungry soldier back to the works where he remained while
            his coffee roasted and the spout was melted off his coffee-pot. Never did a soldier lose
            a strong and healthy appetite more suddenly. Twelve pound shells as a diet did not suit
            his stomach. Another comrade, somewhat cooler-headed under  most circumstances, concluded he, too,would have something to eat, and accordingly
            proceeded, as his comrade had, to prepare and place his coffee upon the fire, watching
            it, ready to remove, as soon as it was sufficiently boiled. He, too, was greatly
            discomfited. The aroma of the coffee was beginning to be distilled, when there came a
            mighty shriek, and there was a scattering of rails, coals, and ashes. The soldier! where
            was he? Two feet deep in water in the stream that ran at the right rear of the regiment.
            He was demoralized and was only just pulling himself together in the water, when another
            terrific scream and the plunging of a shell into the water immediately in his front,
            fairly immersed him with a mighty upheaval of the water. He had snatched his coffeepot
            from the fire before the shell had struck it, and it was his boast as long as he lived
            that he saved his coffee and drank it. Still the shot and shell rained on the men.
            During this time a shell had burst just in the rear of the works in a hogshead in which
            rations had been brought to the place, wounding severely in the hand Captain L. V. Ream,
            of Company G, and Thomas Decker, of Company I. Ream lost three fingers. About 4 o'clock
            p. m. the regiment began the construction of flank covers, similar in construction to
            its parapet, to protect the men from the flank artillery fire of the enemy. When these
            were just completed the regiment was ordered to move by the left flank and relieve the
            Seventeenth Kentucky. This latter position was still muddier than the one which it had
            just left. It was without exaggertion a veritable mud-hole, and there was nowhere a
            place where one could lie down without almost being buried in the mud. All soon began to
            make preparations for the night, to gather brush, rails, or poles to keep themselves out
            of the mud, and thus the Eighty-sixth slept and rested on the night of the 18th of June,
            after an arduous day's duty. The rebels designated the fighting of the 18th as the
            Battle of Kenesaw mountain of the 18th of June.
          The weather had been very bad, very wet and changing frequently and suddenly. It cannot
            be described better than the Irish picket's description to his sweetheart: 
            
                "This southern climate's quare Biddy
                 A quare and beastly thing,
                Wid winter absint all the year,
                 And summer in the spring.
                Ye mind the hot place down below?
                 And may ye never fear
                I'd dhraw comparisons—but then
                 It's awful warrum here."
              
          
          The weather throughout most of June was beastly in the extreme. With this extreme heat
            and with every creek, swamp, and lagoon full of water, and the decaying vegetable matter
            washed into swamps and ponds, it is a wonder that the Union forces did not all die in a
            heap. Rations were issued to the Eighty-sixth in the mud on the night of the 18th, but
            were not distributed to the men until the following morning.
          The Eighty-sixth, almost to a man, was pretty thoroughly saturated with water and
            bedaubed with Georgia soil in the shape of a brick-red mud, when daylight on the morning
            of the 19th revealed the situation. The command moved out after the enemy about 8:30 a.
            m. The enemy was now established in his last line, of which Kenesaw mountain was the
            key. The line extended over the crest of the twin peaks of the mountain, and then
            somewhat refused, running nearly due south from the western slope of the mountain. He
            had, however, strong outposts thrown well in front to baffle Sherman's approach, until
            he was more securely intrenched. The country, with the enemy's perfect knowledge of it,
            favored him, and great caution had to be exercised. The Eighty-sixth, supporting the
            front line, closed up well on to it, and followed as it advanced. Progress was slow,
            however, and the regiment halted about 10:30 and lay until 2:30 p. m., the rain pouring
            down in torrents. At the latter hour the line resumed the advance, the batteries opening
            a terrific fire upon the enemy. The regiment closed up on the advanced line again, and
            the minie balls sang their familiar songs about the ears of the men in a most spiteful
            way. However, but little attention was paid to his fire, but the Union forces pressed
            him with strong lines of skirmishers. The enemy made a stubborn resistance, but was
            steadily  forced back, until night came on and made
            farther progress impossible. The Eighty-sixth bivouacked about 7 o'clock in the evening,
            and received orders to have reveille at 3 o'clock the next morning, and to move at 4
            o'clock. The battle between the skirmish lines still continued to rage after nightfall.
            The regiment's bivouac on the night of the 19th was south of west of the west end of
            Kenesaw mountain. Reveille was sounded at the appointed time. The rapidity of the firing
            increased as day dawned.
          The early morning was clear, but soon a bank of clouds drifted above the horizon and
            threatened rain. The skirmishing was quite active all forenoon, indicating a pressure
            that could not last very long without causing a break of some kind. Just before noon the
            Eighty-sixth was ordered to put up tents, it being stated that it would probably remain
            here throughout the day. Yet the men had scarcely finished their pickled pork, hard tack
            and coffee for dinner, when they received orders to be ready to move at 1 o'clock.
          Wood's division had orders to relieve a part of Hooker's corps. It moved to the right
            about one mile and the Eighty-sixth was halted in a small field which had been used as a
            slaughter pen. Here the enemy caught sight of it and opened with their batteries. He
            soon secured almost perfect range. The shells and solid shot ploughed up the earth and
            flung the dirt wildly about, sprinkling everybody liberally. The offal of the cattle was
            lying plenteously around, almost covering the ground, but the proximity of those
            screaming shells indicated that life depended upon one getting close to the ground. In
            an instant everybody went to the earth. A sergeant of Company H, no doubt, mistaking a
            beef paunch for a boulder or nigger-head, sought shelter behind it from the enemy's
            fire, to the great amusement of the boys. Everybody found it necessary to seek shelter,
            and a darkey who was with the regiment, hid behind a stump. He was peeping out when a
            musket ball struck him on the side of the head and made a painful wound. He was up in a
            second and went galloping around the opening shaking his head like a mad bull, until
            some of the boys pulled him down  behind shelter, made an
            examination and assured him that he was not dangerously wounded. He was severely hurt,
            but he was seen no more.
          From this place the Eighty-sixth moved a little farther to the right and relieved a
            portion of General Geary's line of Hooker's corps. It was now once more on the front
            line of intrenchments, facing the foe. Daily rains still occurred and the streams ran
            full, and the waters were muddy and mud was plentiful everywhere. Being on the front
            line, the Eighty-sixth now had to furnish skirmishers. The fighting had been sharp at
            points around the lines during the day, while the skirmishing was brisk everywhere.
          A heavy detail from the Eighty-sixth was on the skirmish line the whole night of the
            20th, and consequently the regiment was not astir early on the morning of the 21st when
            not compelled to do so by orders. All who were in that detail can testify to the
            exhausting character of the extreme vigilance and activity required of the skirmishers
            that night. Besides the duties required, it rained the whole night. General Sherman
            wrote to General Halleck, Chief of Staff at Washington, on the 21st: "This is the
            nineteenth day of rain and the prospect for fair weather is as far off as ever. The
            roads are impassable; the fields and woods become quagmires after a few wagons have
            crossed over. Yet we are at work all the time." There was no hour, day or night, when
            all parts of the grand army was at rest. Leaving out of consideration the skirmishers
            who slept neither day nor night, there were brigades, regiments, or strong detachments
            that were at work preparing roads, building bridges, or taking and fortifying advanced
            positions. During the forenoon of the 21st Newton's Second division of the Fourth corps
            passed to the rear of Wood's Third division and took position on the line to Wood's
            right.
          The skirmishing was lively during the entire forenoon between the Eighty-sixth
            skirmishers and the enemy. Luke Cronkite, of Company E, was quite severely wounded in
            the wrist while on the skirmish line that morning. It was a severe and extremely painful
            wound, and few, if any, expected  it to prove fatal. But
            in a few weeks word came to the regiment that he died at Louisville on the 9th of
            August. The skirmishing grew in proportions. Resolute courage was exhibited everywhere
            upon the line by both sides, and fighting grew fiercer as the day advanced.
          Just after noon the firing all along the line increased in intensity, and as the volume
            of musketry increased the thunders of batteries joined the music of the minor keys. This
            fierce and unchanging music of battle rang and roared its fiercest and loudest notes for
            an hour, drowning the puny fire of the skirmish line in sound, but it could not
            interrupt the "zip" of the musket balls that came just as freely as before. One had to
            be careful about exposing a head above the head-log of the parapet.
          About 3 o'clock p. m. on the 21st, the Eighty-sixth was suddenly ordered to "fall in
            with gun and cartridge-box." The order was promptly obeyed, and in one minute's time the
            regiment stood in line behind the intrenchments, ready for defensive or offensive duty.
            It proved to be the latter. Speedily the order came to "Forward, march," and over the
            works it went and started for the enemy. Having advanced some distance it came to a rail
            fence, where the men were ordered to supply themselves with rails with which to make a
            barricade. After securing a supply of rails it was again ordered forward. To maintain
            anything like a respectable line of battle was simply impossible, but the command went
            ahead like a cyclone, rails whirling in the air, and occasionally a soldier would trip
            and come tumbling to the ground, gun and rail falling around him to his utter confusion,
            or thumping an unfortunate comrade, in his downfall. Having advanced some six or seven
            hundred yards in front of its former position, the regiment was halted and ordered to
            intrench. The first thing, however, was to get the regiment into line. The men loaded
            with rails, their guns were not easily brought into a perfect alignment, and the
            Lieutenant Colonel, then in command, almost lost his patience. It was necessary for the
            regiment to execute a partial right wheel to perfect the alignment. The Lieutenant
            Colonel could not  make himself heard sufficiently to
            secure the attention of the whole regiment. So after fruitless efforts to secure
            attention, and failing, he became angry and blurted out, "Come round here, left wing,
            and let the right go to h—ll." The left came round and the right soon found its
            position, the alignment was completed and the work began. The skirmishers in front were
            having a hot time and the enemy was liable to come swarming out of his works and attack
            at any moment. All, therefore, worked like beavers. The entire Fourth corps was engaged
            in this dash and drove the enemy out of a strong line of rifle-pits, and came close upon
            his main line of intrenchments. During the advance the enemy had kept up a savage fire,
            but a strong skirmish line in front had kept him well engaged. Trees were felled, and
            these with the rails soon made a respectable shelter for the musketry fire. A trench was
            dug just back of the barricade of logs, and a strong embankment of earth was made in its
            front by throwing the dirt from the trench over the barricade. While J. A. Barnes and
            Richard Galbreath were at work side-by side, a ball struck a heavy "thud" and Galbreath
            gave a startling scream. The rebel ball had struck his cartridge-box, passed through
            both the upper and lower chambers of the tin magazine, welded one of his own balls
            firmly to it and passed out, wounding him severely in the groin. The wound was serious
            but not dangerous. He was carried to the rear at once, and the work went on as though
            nothing had happened. Richard Elder, of Company H, was hurt accidentally. Everything was
            excitement equal to the hurly burly of battle, and hard work for all of the regiment.
            Each one had a different experience, and few had time to note anything except that which
            happened in his immediate presence. One man, exhausted by his great exertion, spread his
            poncho upon the ground and threw himself down to rest. After lying there a few minutes
            he turned over suddenly and then got up still more suddenly. The reason for his sudden
            rising was a sharp sting in his right thigh. Springing quickly to his feet he procured a
            stick and began a search in the leaves that had blown on his poncho for the intruder. He
               soon found him in the shape of a small, brownish gray
            scorpion, three or four inches in length. He was quite indignant, and showed fight
            whenever disturbed, but was quickly dispatched and the ground well looked over for
            others of his kind. The sting was quite painful for a time, but there were no other bad
            results from it and it was soon forgotten. Everybody had worked hard and was thoroughly
            tired, yet the success made the men jubilant and rousing cheer after cheer went round
            the Union lines. The right had now swung round until it faced almost due east, and was
            considerably south of its mighty citadel, the twin crest of Kenesaw mountain.
          This move was briefly described by a rebel author in this way: "General Howard's corps,
            strong massed, made a rush through the forest and carried a hill about 700 yards in
            advance of the position gained the evening before. His main line was moved up about 500
            yards, fortifying the position in the midst of a terrible artillery fire between the
            opposing batteries, and seizing an intrenched line abandoned by the Confederates.
            Hooker's troops, who were next to Howard's, assaulted, and, by flank movement, covered
            by artillery fire, occupied a prominent hill, about 500 yards in front of his old line,
            and then connected his left with Howard's right." Schofield likewise was pushing his
            forces forward on the extreme right, and giving the enemy great annoyance in the
            neighborhood of the Kulp farm, on the banks of Olley's creek.
          By this move General Sherman was enabled to come much nearer the enemy on the right,
            and it also greatly shortened his line, allowing him to extend the lines to the right,
            and thus compelled Johnston to thin out his lines to keep pace with Sherman's extension
            toward the Chattahoochee river. He dared not, while in this position, allow Sherman to
            secure a crossing of that river or to get upon the railroad in his rear. To permit
            either would have been a serious, if not a fatal mistake.
          On the morning of the 22d the Eighty-sixth received orders to strengthen its
            breastworks by making a stronger  parapet. Therefore,
            there was more fatigue duty to perform until the parapet was shot-proof. The skirmishing
            was quite animated throughout the day. On this day, the 22d, Hooker's and Schofield's
            corps fought the battle of Kulp House on the right, defeating the enemy in his attacks,
            and inflicting a heavy loss upon the attacking columns. Thus the days before Kenesaw
            wore away with continual skirmishing around the lines, with an occasional attack on
            exposed points, and daily duels between opposing batteries.
          On the morning of the 23d the enemy was decidedly aggressive on the Third brigade front
            and kept up a hot fire from his skirmish line. The Fifty-ninth Ohio, which was on the
            skirmish line, lost one man, killed, early in the morning. It was relieved by the
            Seventy-ninth Indiana, which was ordered to advance. The advance of the Seventy-ninth
            was resisted with great bravery and spirit, but that regiment pressed on undauntedly,
            and the battle waged hotter and hotter. The enemy was forced to fall back, but he did so
            fighting desperately, and almost at the muzzles of the guns of the Seventy-ninth, before
            he would yield the much coveted ground. Before the advance of the regiment began the
            brigade was ordered into the intrenchments to protect the troops from the fire. A
            perfect hail-storm of minie balls swept the parapet from one end of the regiment to the
            other. The batteries opened a sharp and well directed fire on the enemy just as the
            Seventy-ninth made its attack upon the skirmishers. The Seventy-ninth lost two killed
            and fifteen wounded. During the afternoon there was brisk firing with heavy artillery
            firing on the right.
          Rebel authorities describe "a vigorous attack made upon Hardee's corps' position
            southwest of Kenesaw mountain" on the 24th by Stanley's and Newton's divisions of the
            Fourth corps, covered by a terrible artillery fire. In fact there were daily contests of
            sufficient magnitude that in the early part of the war they would have been heralded all
            over the North as great battles, and the Eighty-sixth, being in the front line of
            intrenchments, felt the effect of every angry wave that ran along the lines and started
            up the fire of  excited skirmish lines. However, about
            this time on the line of the Third brigade, Third division, Fourth corps, there began
            negotiations between skirmishers for a truce and the musketry tire somewhat slackened.
            The boys of "the blue and the gray" were taking the war on their part in their own
            hands.
          There was nothing of note occurred on the 25th. A hot fire was kept up by the
            skirmishers of the First brigade, of Wood's division, some distance to the left.
            Willich's old regiment, the Thirty-second Indiana, was made up principally of Germans,
            and it had secured a very decided advantage over the enemy in position when the line of
            intrenchments was located. The Germans were determined to maintain that advantage to the
            uttermost. This greatly enraged the enemy. When meeting between the lines for social and
            commercial purposes with the friendly enemies on the line of the Third brigade, when
            asked what the trouble was just to the left, the invariable Confederate answer was: "Oh!
            the d—n dutch haven't any sense." It amused the Union boys, although through
            policy they assented to their opinions to keep on good terms and continue the truce now
            well established. But at heart the Union boys gloried in the grit of the Thirty-second,
            and more than once cheered them to the echo when an unusal fine display was made. In
            fact, although most of the credit was given to the Thirty-second, it belonged to the
            regiments of the brigade one and all; for they all kept up the fusilade whenever upon
            the line.
          In the forenoon of the 25th the enemy's batteries on the mountain opened a terrific
            fire on the Union batteries and trains, in the valley below. It was renewed again in the
            evening and the roar of batteries on mountain and plain was terrible indeed. Sherman
            alone had over one hundred guns blazing away at the mountain. These with the rebel
            artillery, one can easily imagine made an artillery battle of no small proportions.
          At this time the corps of the Army of the Cumberland were on the line from left to
            right as follows: Fourth, Fourteenth, and Twentieth. On Sunday, June 26, was a quiet  day for Kenesaw—a Sabbath day, a day of rest to
            recuperate and refresh for the morrow's trial.
          About 8 o'clock on Monday, June 27, the Eighty-sixth with the rest of Wood's division,
            received orders to "Fall in with gun and cartridge-box, canteen and haversack" All knew
            what these orders meant. The ordeal of the battle was to be met. Some part of the army
            was to seek the enemy on his own chosen ground, intrenched as he was. Either Wood's
            division was to assault the enemy, or it was to support the assaulting column. The
            latter proved to be the case. The command moved to the right some distance, coming well
            up to the left of Stanley's position. The assault was to be made by Newton's division,
            of the Fourth corps, and Jeff C. Davis' division, of the Fourteenth corps. The front of
            Stanley's position had been chosen as the point from which the charge should be made.
            Newton's lines were to assault on the left and Davis' farther to the right. Wood's
            division was Newton's support on the left. The Eighty-sixth was in the front line of the
            supporting forces, and occupied the works vacated by troops of Newton's division. The
            Eighty-sixth was ready at a moment's notice to go forward and in turn assault the
            enemy's almost impregnable position if even there was a show of success of the columns
            already designated for that purpose.
          Just to the rear of the left of the regiment, in the second line of works, was the
            Eleventh Indiana battery, consisting of six guns, four being 20-pound Parrott guns, and
            two 24-pound brass pieces. The regiment had not been long in this position when the
            battery opened a terrible fire on the enemy's intrenchments, or as it proved to be,
            rather upon the Eighty-sixth. The ammunition furnished the battery was worse than
            worthless in the present situation. Its shells exploded almost as soon as they cleared
            the mouths of the guns in their flight. Thus the fragments of the shells were thrown in
            and around the Eighty-sixth in a perfect hailstorm of destruction. After one or two
            rounds had been fired and a number of the regiment had been wounded, a protest was sent
            to the battery against continuing the fire.  A change was
            made in the ammunition and the fire resumed. This was no better and the shells burst
            within a few rods of the muzzles of the guns of the battery. This made the Eighty-sixth
            hot, and the men threatened to face about and charge the battery in order to silence it,
            and thus save themselves. The regiment had, on arriving at this position, stacked arms,
            and was awaiting further orders when the battery opened fire. The bursting shells had
            knocked down stacks of guns, and hurled them about the heads of men at a furious rate.
            Captain Carnahan, of Company I, ordered Sergeant Cosby to move to the head of his
            company while the Captain attended to some matter at another point. They had scarcely
            changed position and Sergeant Cosby taken his place at the head of the company, when
            another volley was fired by the battery, and a shell exploding to the rear of Company I,
            knocked a stack of guns over, breaking several and severely wounding the Sergeant. He
            was at once taken to the rear. The regiment, now more angry than ever, sent a peremptory
            order for the battery to cease firing. It was promptly obeyed this time, and it probably
            saved trouble between the battery and regiment.
          The assault was now on in all its fury. The Eighty-sixth took arms and stood ready at a
            moment's notice to go forward into the sulphurous pit. Perhaps few assaults during the
            entire war were more terribly destructive, considering the front exposed to the enemy's
            fire; few were more determinedly maintained and more resolutely met and repulsed than
            this one. General Newton, immediately upon the right, with General Jeff C. Davis, a few
            hundred yards farther away, and General Schofield, with the Army of the Ohio, far away
            on the right, while McPherson's Army of the Tennessee, represented by the gallant
            Fifteenth corps, led by the brave Logan, made the assault upon Kenesaw mountain. The
            divisions in the various assaulting columns were all splendid fighters, and all went
            forward with the steadiness and courage that characterize the disciplined soldier.
            Newton's division, of the Fourth corps, perhaps made the most desperate and persevering
            effort to scale the enemy's works  of all the lines of
            assault. But all to no purpose. The rebel works were practically impregnable, and just
            now were veritable volcanoes at the various points assaulted, vomiting forth fire and
            smoke and raining leaden hail in the face of the Union boys. Hundreds of pieces of
            artillery roared around the lines until the mountain and plain shook with the dreadful
            detonations. But Johnston held his rocky fortress securely.
          Although the Union arms had failed to carry the position of the enemy, the Confederates
            were forced to give the assaulting column the credit of exhibiting the most intrepid
            courage. General Johnston himself says in his history: "At several points
              the characteristic fortitude of the Northwestern soldiers held them under a close and
              destructive fire long after reasonable hope of success was gone." General Sherman
            says: "About a mile to the right, just below the Dallas road, Thomas's assaulting column
            reached the parapet, where Brigadier-General Daniel McCook, my old law partner, was
            desperately wounded, from the effects of which he afterward died." All did nobly, but
            the Fourth corps excelled. In proof of this the loss of the Fourth corps in killed
            during the month of June was nearly double that of the Fourteenth corps, although the
            latter greatly exceeded it in numbers. This is not said for the purpose of detracting
            from any, for all showed heroic courage and fortitude. 
                "The living are brave and noble,
                But the dead were bravest of all."
              
          This battle is said to have presented a grand and "imposing panorama" to those on
            Kenesaw mountain, who could see all the movements until the contestants were enveloped
            in the battle's smoke. General French, the Confederate commander on the mountain, gives
            a lengthy description of it, from which the following is quoted: "We sat there, perhaps,
            an hour, enjoying a bird's eye view of one of the most magnificent sights ever allotted
            to men—to look down upon an hundred and fifty thousand men arrayed in the strife
            of battle, on the plain below. As the infantry closed in the blue smoke of the musket
            marked out our line for  miles, while over it, rose in
            cumuli-like clouds the white smoke of the artillery. Through the rifts of smoke, or, as
            it was wafted aside by the wind, we could see the assault made on Cheatham, and there
            the struggle was hard, and there it lasted longest. So many guns were trained on those
            by our side, and so incessant was the roar of cannon and the sharp explosion of shells,
            that naught else could be heard. * * The battle in its entirety,
            became a pageantry on a grand scale, and barren of results, because the attacking
            columns were too small in numbers, considering the character of the troops they knew
            they would encounter."
          The army of the Tennessee fared no better, so far as success was concerned, than the
            Army of the Cumberland, and by noon the battle was over. The Eighty-sixth returned at
            once to its position in the trenches. There was a lull after the storm, and there was
            comparatively light skirmishing around the lines during the afternoon and evening. On
            the next day, the 28th, the boys of the Eighty-sixth and the Confederates formed a
            "Board of Trade" on a small scale for the purpose of disposing of surplus coffee on the
            one hand and tobacco upon the other. An offer to "dicker" coffee for tobacco always
            caught the "Johnnies" and put them in good humor, if there were no officers around. On
            the other hand tobacco was in brisk demand in the Union ranks. When there was an
            official about they would signal not to come, but as soon as he was gone, traffic would
            be resumed. They seemed to be in excellent humor over their great success in repelling
            the assault the previous day. They were quite willing to talk of the campaign,
            expressing themselves freely in regard the probable success of it on the Union part, and
            "lowed they had enough for another killing yet in ranks."
          At one of these meetings an interesting discussion arose between Wat Baker, of Company
            H, and a Confederate. Snugly ensconced behind two logs hid from view of the rebel line,
            the discussion began. Baker was an oddity, over six feet in height, of a nervous
            disposition, jerky in manner and emphatic in speech. The discussion, as related by Baker
            afterwards, ranged over the whole subject of contention 
            between the North and the South—slavery pro and con was argued, secession and
            coercion, and the probable success of the Northern armies finally. For nearly two hours
            these men chatted and argued every phase of the contest which suggested itself to their
            minds. Baker, on his return to the line, shook his head in a most comical manner and
            declared he had almost converted one "Reb" into a "Yank;" that he had convinced him of
            the utter folly of further fighting on the part of the South. He admitted all was
            hopeless and declared he intended to abandon the army and the cause upon the first
            opportunity to desert. Baker, with the fervency of speech of a Methodist revivalist,
            urged that "now was the accepted time." To this the "Johnnie" demurred, and pointed out
            that it would be impossible for him to escape on this occasion. Such an attempt would
            only result in his certain destruction on account of the nearness of their skirmish
            line, which was instructed to shoot down anyone attempting to escape to the Union lines.
            He must therefore wait, and he would reach the desired end sooner or later. He no doubt
            fulfilled his promise as they came over by tens and fifties when opportunity
            favored.
          From this time until the 3d of July the men did little but skirmish duty, get up at 3
            o'clock in the morning and stand to arms in the the trenches until daylight. On the
            morning of June 30 at 2 o'clock, the Eighty-sixth was aroused and ordered into the
            trenches on account of heavy firing on the right. But as everything soon became quiet,
            were permitted to lie down, but only to be called up again at 3 o'clock to stand to arms
            until daylight. These last days of June were excessively hot. The roads were rapidly
            drying up and the passage of troops and wagon trains could be calculated with much more
            certainty. This excessively hot weather would certainly have almost prostrated the Union
            army if it had not been for the delightfully cool nights which gave one some hours of
            the sweetest and most refreshing sleep that ever fell to the lot of man to enjoy. But
            like everything else in this world it had its drawbacks—there was scarcely enough
            of it. The short nights did not fully compensate  for the
            long and fiery ordeal of the day. Still the health of the Union army was fairly good.
            The weak had been weeded out by former years of service so that there were few in the
            ranks at this time that were not thoroughly seasoned to army life. General Sherman now
            had as fine a veteran army as ever trod the North American continent.
          In the evening of the 1st of July, the Eighty-sixth received orders to move, but the
            order was countermanded. General Sherman was not quite ready and the enemy forestalled
            his intended stragetic move by evacuation before he could be ready. It is now known that
            he intended to swing free from his base and move against General Johnston's
            communications. But the Southern Fabius was not to be caught napping. He saw surely
            enough his great danger, hemmed in as he was with a deep and rapid river at his back;
            and knew well the matchless skill of his opponent, and the courage and discipline of his
            grand army. Sherman was daily expecting the evacuation, and worked away to be ready, if
            possible, to catch the enemy in the move. But Johnston's preparations were completed
            first. On the morning of the 2d of July, the troops were instructed to get into the
            trench, and when the skirmish line began firing to shout with all their power of voice
            as though they were starting on a charge, to assault his works. The Eighty-sixth did its
            best in the shouting business. But the men did not see Kenesaw mountain crumble or the
            head-logs of their breastworks roll down. Kenesaw was not Jericho, nor was Sherman a
            Joshua. The walls of Kenesaw were not cast down by the blowing of trumpets of ram's
            horns.
          Just after dark on the 2d, the Eighty-sixth received orders to strike tents. Down came
            the tents, but quietly. Everything was soon in readiness to move and the Eighty-sixth
            filed out, marching for its new position. This was a general movement and change of
            position of nearly the whole army, and if the enemy should become cognizant of it and
            make a direct attack while the change was in progress the Union forces would be taken at
            a great disadvantage. Therefore, everything had to be done with the extremest caution.
               The march was made at a snail's pace, and in profound
            silence. The Eighty-sixth reached its new position about midnight, and as the men were
            up again at daybreak they did not secure much sleep or rest. The morning meal of hard
            tack, pickled pork and coffee, was soon served. Again had the Confederate Fabius been
            forced to evacuate, and this time a very strong position held by an increased force
            nearer his base. Kenesaw mountain was, indeed, a veritable Gibraltar, but it was now in
            Sherman's possession, and "the boys in blue" and "the soul of John Brown" went marching
            on. Every man in the Union ranks was greatly elated. To be forced to leave such a
            position and such intrenchments must have told every Southern soldier how weak and
            utterly hopeless was the slave-drivers' cause when pitted against the free and powerful
            North. They must "have read His righteous sentence" in this evidence of their
            weakness.
        
        
          CHAPTER XXIV.  KENESAW TO PEACH TREE CREEK.
          The Fourth of July—How it Was Celebrated—Smyrna Camp Ground—McIvor's
            Station—McRae's Hill—Chattahoochee River—Pace's Ferry—Powers'
            Ferry—Across the Chattahoochee—Down the River—Over to Buck
            lead—The Battle of Peach Tree Creek.
          The Eighty-sixth, with its brigade and division, moved out after the enemy about 8
            o'clock, July 3. Passing to the right it passed its old camp and works and crossed over
            to the enemy's entrenchments. They were exceedingly strong and could be held easily by
            determined men against vastly superior numbers. The timber between the enemy's line of
            works and the Union line was literally cut to pieces by the shot, shell, grape, canister
            and musket balls, attesting the desperate character of the contest that had been waged
            here. On the Third brigade line, where a truce had been entered  into, the timber was not so severely cut by the musketry fire. The
            artillery, however, had made no truce, and generally around the entire line the
            withering blast of fire and leaden hail had rained a destructive storm.
          Pressing on after the enemy Wood's division went west and south of Marietta, and
            crossed to the east side of the railroad, skirmishing slightly with the enemy's rear
            guard, and bivouacked for the night, not far from Ruff's Station. The boom of cannon to
            the right and some musketry indicated rather more than ordinary skirmishing. The army
            was now more than 120 miles from Chattanooga, and the enemy's boast that he was merely
            luring Sherman and his army into the interior, in order to destroy them, had not yet
            been made good. On the night of the 3d the men slept undisturbed by the light picket
            firing, and were up bright and early on the morning of "the glorious Fourth of July."
            They received orders to be ready to march at once—without waiting for breakfast.
            But the order to "forwarch march" for some reason was delayed, and no veteran failed to
            utilize the time thus unintentionally given him. The hard tack was ready, and to the
            experienced, the preparation of the pickled pork and coffee required but a short time.
            This was the eighty-eighth anniversary of the Nation's birth, and now the Union army was
            engaged in making good that declaration, and was even declaring a more radical
            Independence and a larger Liberty. The day was celebrated, not in the old-fashioned
            orthodox way, however, of picnics, firecrackers, and bon-fires, but by booming of
            shotted cannon that sent the shrieking shell, and by the sharp rattle of musketry. Thus
            the Eighty-sixth celebrated the Fourth and renewed its allegiance to the basic
            principles of the fundamental law—the Constitution—which ought to give
            justice to the weak as well as the powerful.
          During the forenoon both the cannonading and musketry were quite brisk at times, and
            indicated a strained situation which was likely to develop into a battle at any time.
            The Eighty-sixth drew three days' rations of hard bread, pickled pork, sugar, coffee,
            beans and soap. After dinner everything  was in prime
            order for a forward movement, and the men generally were eager to press on. At 2:15 p.
            m. the regiment and brigade filed out for a forward move, but the march was a short one.
            In an advance of less than two miles the command ran plump up against the enemy behind a
            strong line of intrenchments near Smyrna Camp Ground. As the enemy's position was
            approached the skirmishers of both sides seemed determined to bring on an engagement by
            the most rapid and continued firing, and there was some hot fighting on various parts of
            the line, but no general engagement resulted, nor was any direct assault made except on
            the extreme right where Dodge's corps carried some rifle-pits of the enemy. Wood's
            division, and especially Beatty's brigade, drew up close to the fortified position of
            the enemy. However, the alignment was completed and a good strong line of intrenchments
            constructed. It now seems probable that had all parts of the army been equally prompt in
            closing in on the enemy and getting in to a good position for an attack, the enemy might
            have been assaulted successfully at this point; and certainly to have broken his lines
            here and caused a panic would have ruined Johnston's entire army and rendered it wholly
            incapable of making a stand at Atlanta. But as it was the command waited, drew a ration
            of whisky and continued the celebration of the Fourth of July. The spirits enlivened
            camp somewhat, if tipsy men can be said ever to enliven anything. Songs were sung and a
            hilarious good time experienced by those who indulged in the flowing bowl. One
            commissioned officer of Company H, heated by the commissary spirits,grew eloquent and
            courageous, mounted a stump and proceeded to deliver a patriotic and fiery oration,
            regardless of the enemy's spiteful humor and the sharp fire he maintained. This gallant
            and patriotic speech was cheered by the boys to the echo, which drew from the enemy a
            perfect storm of musketry as though he thought a charge was on and a death-struggle at
            hand, and so the glorious Fourth of July, 1864, passed for the Eighty-sixth.
          All had sobered up by the morning of the 5th—those 
            who had immoderately indulged—and many no doubt felt the depression very keenly
            which follows such excesses. But there was work to be done, and action was a better
            stimulant than any intoxicant. The enemy had again evacuated, and soon orders came to
            forward and to push the enemy at all points with all possible vigor.
          The Eighty-sixth was on the move by 7 o'clock a. m. and was soon close upon the heels
            of the enemy's rear-guard. Johnston's army was now more closely hemmed in. His works
            here, as everywhere on the campaign, were of the most formidable kind. The privates of
            the Confederate army were becoming more disheartened day by day, and the fall of their
            late Gibraltar was to them a severe blow. The brigade skirmishers pushed ahead with
            great courage and energy and brought in many prisoners. Some of these certainly were not
            averse to being captured, but there were others that fought valiantly. The Third brigade
            had the advance of the division and corps, and the Eighty-sixth had the advance of the
            column, the Fifty-ninth being on the skirmish line. The Eighty-sixth kept well up to the
            skirmishers to support in case it should be necessary. The advance was necessarily slow
            with constant fighting, but the men were busy the whole day through. The command
            followed the road on the left of the railroad and soon passed Smyrna Station.
          After passing Smyrna a short distance the road bore off nearly due east toward the
            river. The Fifty-ninth gallantly pressed on after the enemy, the fighting increasing
            gradually in intensity. The Eighty-sixth still kept closed upon the Fifty-ninth. After
            passing McIvor's and winding around the base of McRae's Hill to the east, the fighting
            grew still more furious. On by Vining's Station and the wagon road, turning sharply
            toward the east and the river, revealed the situation of the enemy in front. The
            Chattahooche river was being approached. The troops in front were effecting a crossing
            and this accounted for the enemy's determined resistance. His rear-guard had been
            reinforced and the Fifty-ninth was given a red-hot reception. The  road on which the command was advancing was a direct one to Atlanta, and
            crossed the Chattahoochee river at Pace's Ferry where Johnston's extreme right
            crossed.
          On the narrow neck of land between McRae's Hill and Vining's Station on one side, and
            the river on the other, the enemy made a determined stand, but General Wood's orders
            were to advance and give him battle. The advance was slow, as the enemy was in a
            desperate straight and fought like demons. However, step by step, the river and ferry
            were approached. The time had come for still more decisive action. The lines were formed
            and a dash was made with a hurrah and every point was carried. The enemy broke and fled
            precipitately across the pontoon bridge, which he had at the ferry, but not all
            succeeded in crossing, and quite a number were captured on the bank of the river. The
            pursuit was so hot that the enemy was not permitted to take up his pontoons. To save
            himself he cut its mooring on the west bank of the river, when it swung down stream,
            where it remained a bone of contention for the skirmish line. The enemy held the east
            bank at the river, and a withering fire was kept up the rest of the day across the river
            in the neighborhood of the pontoon boats. Having hustled the enemy across the river in
            front, the command was comparatively at ease. General Thomas and other Generals came by,
            viewing the situation and learning the location of the lines.
          This was another triumph for General Sherman and his army. The campaign had not been a
            walk-over, but triumph had followed triumph for the Union soldiers from first to last at
            every point. They were consequently very jubilant and the enemy correspondingly
            discouraged. Cheers, good hearty cheers, would go ringing, time after time, around the
            Union long battle line that summer afternoon, to inform the enemy how happy the boys
            were over their long and successful campaign. In two months of hard marching, skillful
            maneuvering, and constant skirmishing and fighting, Sherman had beaten him back a
            hundred miles over mountain and plain, through valleys and over rivers—across a
            stretch of country the most defensible at every turn. "Old glory"  floated to the breeze all along the long battle-line here in the heart of
            Georgia, and it had come to stay, backed as it was by as determined a host of free men
            as ever espoused a cause or upheld a banner.
          The Eighty-sixth, with the rest of Wood's division, slept undisturbed the night of the
            5th, for the booming of cannon broke not the slumbers of the men. The Chattahoochee
            river lay between them and the foe, and they felt perfectly secure. The firing at the
            ferry was maintained during the night and flashed up at daylight the next morning into
            quite a rattle of musketry, and at times the batteries made hill and dale quake with the
            mighty roar of their guns as they joined the fusilade of the infantry. Orders were given
            to the Eighty-sixth to remain at the bivouac, as it was thought probable that the
            command would move sometime during the day. There was no duty to perform, and therefore
            the men wrote letters home and lounged about and discussed the situation. On the right,
            in front of Baird's division of the Fourteenth army corps, and, in fact, in front of the
            rest of the army, the enemy had a line of exceedingly strong fortifications on the west
            or north bank of the river, and had only fallen back into these works and not across the
            river as they had been forced to do in Wood's immediate front.
          In the evening of the 6th a heavy detail was made from the Eighty-sixth for skirmish
            duty along the bank of the river and at the ferry. The detail was under the command of
            Captain James R. Carnahan, of Company I, and relieved the reserve station promptly at
            sundown according to orders, and the out-standing skirmishers at dark. The men had been
            on the line but a short time until a conversation arose between the lines on opposite
            sides of the river. This conversation was maintained for some time and took quite a wide
            range of subjects for discussion. All firing soon stopped in the vicinity of the ferry,
            as everyone wanted to hear what was said on both sides. The conversation was principally
            carried on by Orderly Sergeant J. M. Cast, of Company H, on one side, and by Captain
            Walker, Ninth Mississippi, of Pat Cleburne's division, Hardee's corps, on the other,  although others on both sides took a part. Many questions
            were asked and answered on both sides in the best of humor. After quite a good deal of
            good humored bantering about the campaign and their enforced retreat, the question was
            asked: "How far are you going to retreat before you get to the last ditch?" The answer
            came back promptly: "We have the pontoons already on which to cross the Gulf," and more
            in that strain. Finally the political issues of the day in the Northern States were
            broached. The Captain seemed quite willing to talk, and to the question of his
            Presidential preferences, for Lincoln or McClellan, he gave a ready answer. He said
            McClellan was a good man, the friend of the South, and would suit the Southern people in
            general admirably. He intimated that peace could soon be established between the North
            and South if McClellan were elected President by the Northern States. This is not stated
            as a fact, but given as the expressed opinion of Captain Walker, of the Ninth
            Mississippi, at Pace's Ferry on the Chattahoochee river the night of the 6th of July,
            1864. However, he was very politely informed by the Sergeant that his choice did not
            stand a ghost of a chance for election in the North, and that he would be doomed to
            disappointment if he were building any hopes on the election of McClellan to the
            presidency. He was informed that the North would stand nobly by Lincoln and Johnson.
            Gradually the conversation ended and comparative quiet reigned during the rest of the
            night.
          Just after noon the whole regiment came out to the reserve station and a large detail
            was placed upon the line, extending it some distance to the right. The skirmishing was
            lively, and the enemy no doubt expected an attack. The Union artillery maintained a
            strong fire for quite awhile during the afternoon. The brigade struck tents and moved
            about one mile to the right, closing up and strengthening the battle-line in front of
            the enemy's intrenched line on the right bank of the river.
          Immediately after dark a number of Union batteries opened fire on the enemy just across
            the river at Pace's  Ferry. It was one of the hottest and
            most terrific cannonadings heard during the entire campaign, and the Eighty-sixth was
            lying under it all, the firing being almost directly over the reserve station. The boom
            of the guns, the shriek of the shells, the roar of their explosions and the crashing of
            the falling timber on the farther side of the river rendered it terrible indeed. This
            perfect tornado of shot and shell rained upon the trembling enemy for a good long hour.
            It was no doubt intended by this fierce cannonade to create the the impression that a
            crossing at Pace's Ferry would be forced, or, at least, would be attempted, while
            perhaps a crossing would be prepared for at another point.
          The Eighty-sixth was relieved from the skirmish line about 9 o'clock p. m., the 7th,
            and marched at once to its old place of bivouac. The following morning, the 8th, it
            joined the brigade some distance to the right and somewhat more advanced toward the
            enemy's intrenched position. In the afternoon the regiment worked hard, fortifying the
            regimental line, continuing the work until late in the evening, and completing the
            brigade's line of intrenchments, which were quite strong. On the morning of the 9th the
            regiment stood to arms at daylight, according to orders, to be in readiness in case the
            enemy should attempt to make a sortie. The enemy not appearing the regiment was soon
            permitted to break ranks. The men then breakfasted on the usual fare of hard tack, salt
            pork, and black coffee, and went about the duties of the day, and attending to personal
            matters. The Third brigade had no very special duty to perform, as there was no strong
            force of the enemy in its immediate front. Therefore, the men visited comrades in the
            various commands near the Eighty-sixth. washed and mended clothing, cleaned their guns
            and accouterments to be ready for anything whenever a call was made upon them. Although
            they did not consider themselves in front of the enemy, an occasional "stray" ball would
            bring down a man. Some of the Eighty-sixth boys while taking observations for
            themselves, some distance in front of the regiment's position, found a member of the
            Nineteenth Ohio, who had been brought down  by one of
            these strays, being quite severely wounded in the leg. He was carried to his regiment
            and left in the care of his comrades. Such incidents were of daily and almost hourly
            occurrence somewhere on the long battle-line.
          In the afternoon of the 9th a number of comrades went back about one mile and climbed
            the hill known as McRae's Hill, and took a view of the surrounding country. The hill
            lies to the west of the railroad, which curves around its base, between it and the
            river. From the summit of this hill was had a splendid view of the country far and near.
            In the immediate front lay the Union forces behind their intrenchments, drawn well up to
            those of the enemy. "Men of the North and West" were there watching and waiting, ready
            at a moment's notice to pounce upon Johnston's army at the least favorable opportunity
            that gave them any hope of success. A step farther on was the red bank of the rebel
            breastworks, which could be seen drawn from the river just above Howell's Ferry, a mile
            up stream from the railroad bridge, across the country in front of the railroad crossing
            of the river to Turner's Ferry, some three miles distant from Bolton, at the
            railroad.
          The salient of this line of works was a little east of the railroad and was probably a
            little over two miles distant. On the extreme left of Johnston's line, his works ran
            close up to Nickajack creek and nearly parallel with its east bank. The line was
            admirably chosen, splendidly fortified, and could easily be defended. It was a line hard
            to approach. This was a veritable bulwark in Sherman's pathway for an onward march. Just
            behind the position of the Confederate army wound the river in its course to the gulf.
            Full from the many heavy rains it ran turbulently between the hills and over its rocky
            bed. But the vision lingers not here on the turbulent water course, but darts its way
            onward to the objective point of the campaign, the Gate City of Georgia, the fair
            Atlanta. There the white houses and the glittering church spires gleaming in the
            sunlight could be plainly seen at a distance of eight miles. There were the heavy red
            enbankments of earthen forts and their connecting intrenchments  and fortifications, whose counter-scarps are protected from approach by
            abatis here and chevaux-de-frise there, gave warning that the great
            prize is not to be easily or lightly won. Brave Southerners will defend it as long as a
            single hope of success remains to them. This fair city is as the apple of their eye. It
            is the home of beauty and refinement, where the Southern sentiment is cherished as life
            itself, and the brave never fight so valorously as under the eye of beauty. Then the
            city's manufactories produce that which is as the life-blood and sustenance of the
            Confederacy. The vision wanders away eastward to the grayish blue cone of Stone
            mountain, which can be plainly seen some eighteen or twenty miles to the southeast. The
            eye falls back over wooded hills and farm openings of the country lying northeast and
            north of the city of Atlanta, and drained by the now historic Peach Tree creek, whose
            waters were yet to be dyed with the patriotic blood of thousands of the boys in blue.
            Bringing the line of vision back along near Buckhead and crossing the river at Pace's
            Ferry, that locality is scanned. Thence northward, the vision wanders on the east bank
            of the river and down again to the ferry; thence northward on the west bank of the
            river, the hills and valleys of Rottenwood creek, on over Soap creek, by Powers' Ferry
            and on toward Phillips' Ferry and Roswell. It was a clear bright day and it was a
            splendid landscape, a glorious panorama of nature's varied works, of rivulet, river,
            mountain and plain.
          When McRae's Hill came into the possession of the Union forces, there on its side near
            its top was found the body of a man suspended by a rope from the limb of a tree. He had
            evidently been dead some days. No one seemed to know anything about him. Whether a
            suspected Union man who suffered the vengeance of his neighbors, a spy of our army
            executed, or some hot-headed fire-eater driven to desperation on account of Sherman's
            continued success and approach to his home, and who took this plan of "shuffling off the
            mortal coil," none could learn. At any rate the rebels had not concerned themselves
            enough about him to cut him down and bury him, and the Union forces had not treated  him any better, for now four days after the capture of the
            hill, he was left dangling in the air. From papers found on his person it was learned
            that his name was D. B. Duncan. Whether he ever received burial or not, cannot be said.
            He was left as he was found, hanging by the neck on McRae's Hill.

          In the evening of the 9th, Union batteries again opened on the enemy's position and for
            sometime maintained a strong artillery fire. This was done, no doubt, with the intention
            of feeling the enemy. Cox says: "From this hill near Vining's Station, Sherman was able
            to see, on the 9th 'a good deal of flutter in the enemy's camps,' and movement of troops
            to the eastward, which might mean either a concentration to attack the force already
            over the river, or preparations for taking a new position." General Schofield had
            crossed Cox's division on the 8th at the mouth of Soap creek, at Phillips' Ferry, and
            Johnston at once saw that his position at Bolton was no longer of importance.
          On the morning of the 10th word came early that the enemy "had folded his tents and
            quietly stole away," and again the boisterous cheers of the rugged Northmen went ringing
            round the long intrenched lines for the success that had so signally crowned their
            efforts directed by the matchless Sherman. Another stage of the campaign was completed
            and the army was yet in almost perfect shape and condition. The regiment was inspected
            by companies, received orders to march, and filed out from its camp about 9 o'clock a.
            m. It marched to the north, back over McRae's Hill and on. The day was exceedingly hot
            and oppressive and the progress of the column was slow. About 3 o'clock p. m. it began
            to rain and came down in torrents. The road soon became slippery and the marching
            slavish. The men were thoroughly soaked, but they continued to press on until about 6
            o'clock, and bivouacked not far from the Chattahoochee river.
          Wood's division lay here at this bivouac ground during the 11th and until about noon of
            the 12th, when it marched out down the river for some distance and crossed on a pontoon
               bridge at Powers' Ferry. The division proceeded about
            one mile farther, bearing off to the right, and bivouacked. It had covered five miles
            from the previous night's bivouac.
          On the morning of the 13th the Eighty-sixth drew three days' rations of hard tack,
            sugar, coffee, pickled pork, and a ration of that abomination known as "mixed
            vegetables." A little corn meal was issued for a change. About 8 o'clock a. m. orders
            were received to be ready to move. At 9 o'clock the command started and marched to the
            right front of its former position about one mile, and here halted and got dinner. After
            dinner the regiment was ordered to lay off camp in regular order, which was soon done
            and the pup tents put up. After this was completed the camp was fortified by building a
            line of intrenchments along the color-line of the regiment, connecting with those to the
            left. The works were made good and strong along the brow of the hill on which the
            brigade's alignment was made. On the 14th a heavy detail was made from the Eighty-sixth
            for picket or skirmish line. There was no enemy to be seen in front, but as there was
            more or less firing on other parts of the line it seemed probable that he was near. The
            men did not, however, relax their vigilant watch.
          By the 15th enough timber had been cut down in front to enable the men to get a glimpse
            of Atlanta. Rumors innumerable went the rounds of camp. The "grapevine telegraph"
            brought much news of the movements and intended movements of troops of the various
            armies. One of these in circulation this day was that a strong reconnoissance was to be
            made soon, probably the next day, and that the Eighty-sixth would be in it. These rumors
            often had some foundation in fact, but were frequently distorted and greatly changed
            from the actual moves intended. There was much discussion among the rank and file as to
            Sherman's probable course in the advance upon the city. The Eighty-sixth, or the members
            of it with many others of the grand army, constituted for a day or two, a kind of
            Congress or House of Commons, to discuss campaign topics, as they were suggested hour by
            hour by the "grapevine telegraph." The news from other 
            portions of the army was quite limited, and the rumors served to occupy the thoughts in
            lieu of the genuine article of news.
          Here in the neighborhood of this camp there were not many farm openings, consequently
            there was not much foraging. Pickled pork had been substituted early in the campaign for
            the old rusty bacon on account of it being so much more easily kept. The hot sun of
            June, July, and August, in this climate, would have almost melted the bacon into a
            greasy spot and left the men without meat. Nothwithstanding the extreme scarcity of
            forage, occasionally a raid would be made and something secured. Apples were the most
            plentiful, and they were by no means abundant, in fact, they were about the only
            accessible foragable article that could be secured at this camp. A few of these were
            brought to the camp of the Eighty-sixth by a few hardy, resolute foragers.
          At this camp on the hill, on the afternoon of the 16th of July, every heart in the
            Eighty-sixth was made glad and greatly to rejoice by the return of Colonel George F.
            Dick, who had been absent since receiving his wound on the memorable night of the 27th
            of May at the battle-field of Pickett's Mills. He was looking quite well. His wound was
            healed, but it was still very tender and caused him much pain for some time after this
            when on horseback. However, ever after his return he was always at the head of the
            regiment throughout the remainder of the campaign and the regiment's service. In the
            evening of the 16th the Eighty-sixth received orders to be ready to march at 4 o'clock
            the following morning.
          On the morning of the 17th the bugles sounding reveille awoke the echoes at 3 o'clock.
            Some one has said that at reveille the bugle said: 
                Oh, I can't get 'em up,
                I can't get 'em up,
                I can't get 'em up in the morning.
              
          No doubt the weary soldiers often felt like not getting up after an arduous day's duty
            performed with but a few brief hours of rest and sleep, but in the Eighty-sixth there
               were few laggards that morning. The regiment was
            speedily formed, and faced to the right and marched down the hill toward the river. The
            brigade was all soon in column and proceeded down the river. It was at first supposed by
            the rank and file that a reconnoissance was being made, but it proved to be something
            more. It soon became known that Wood's division was to force its way down along the
            banks of the Chattahoochee river and drive back any force of the enemy it might find
            from Pace's Ferry, and hold its ground until a pontoon bridge could be laid and troops
            crossed at that point. After proceeding some distance the division was ordered to halt
            and "load without noise—without the rattle of ram-rods." This was a warning to
            keep quiet on account of the proximity of the enemy. Continuing the march very quietly,
            the Third brigade in advance, the vicinity of the ferry was soon reached. Here
            everything was made ready as quietly as possible. The lines were formed, and then a dash
            out from the ferry was made for the enemy who were guarding the crossing. For a few
            minutes the sharp rattle of musketry might have betokened a battle, but the enemy soon
            hied himself away to greener fields and pastures new. He got away with his old time
            agility, when taken at a disadvantage. It is not meant to insinuate that the Southern
            soldiers are cowards; far from it; never did braver men look foemen in the face, but
            when they did go they went with the fleetness of deers. This surprise was complete. The
            bluff back from the river a short distance on which the enemy was, had concealed Wood's
            division entirely from him, while Palmer's men on the opposite side of the river were in
            plain view and could illy conceal their exultation at the manner it had been conducted,
            and how the wary veterans of Johnston's army had been caught napping. General Wood
            congratulated the Third brigade on its splendid success, and praised it highly for the
            handsome manner in which it had performed its difficult task. After the enemy was driven
            back some distance, he returned to the attack with renewed vigor as though he had been
            strongly reinforced, and doubtless had been. But Wood's skirmishers maintained their
            position. The front line  of battle built a strong line of
            intrenchments as a bridge-head, and therefore was ready for an attack if the enemy chose
            to make one.
          The pontoniers were at work as soon as they saw Wood's division would probably hold its
            ground and the enemy was well out of the way. In one hour and eight minutes after the
            work was begun, the bridge began to swing to and fro, swayed by the cadenced tread of
            armed men marching in column. It was the head of the column of General Jeff. C. Davis'
            division of the Fourteenth corps. This bridge building was quick work. Johnson's
            division, of the Fourteenth corps, followed Davis'. Wood's division was relieved about 4
            o'clock, when it marched leisurely back to its old camping ground up the river, to take
            its proper place upon the line in the advance to be made.
          All the heads of columns of Sherman's grand army had now accomplished the difficult
            task of crossing the river in the face of the enemy and was once again ready to give
            Johnston battle on his own ground. The former maneuvering, skirmishing, and battles, as
            fine as the one had been, and as fierce and desperate as the others were in character,
            they were in a sense preliminary and introductory to the struggles and maneuvering to
            take place south of the Chattahoochee and around the city of Atlanta for its possession.
            Every foot of ground was to be stubbornly contested from the time the skirmish lines
            became engaged after the Union forces crossed the river until the capture of Jonesboro,
            south of the city. Around Atlanta, indeed many notable contests took place where the
            dauntless courage of the Southern soldiers shed new luster upon the red-cross banner,
            but the iron-hearted men of the North and West ever met them with unflinching firmness
            and courage, and day by day gained ground and fought them foot by foot into their
            impregnable fortifications. True, sometimes advantages rested first here, and then
            there, but the successes of the hardy, unshrinking Northmen greatly predominated over
            those of their chivalric antagonists, both in number and decisiveness. When Wood's  division returned to its old camp on the evening of the
            17th, the men knew their stay there would be short.
          On the morning of the 18th of July the regimental bugle of the Eighty-sixth sang its
            "waking notes" with those of the rest of the brigade at 3 o'clock a. in., and the men
            turned out promptly. The Eighty-sixth struck tents and packed everything ready for the
            onward march. At 9 o'clock it was ordered into line and stacked arms. At 10 o'clock the
            command moved out on the road for Atlanta that leads through Buckhead. The column's
            progress was slow. No doubt the utmost caution was necessary. The skirmishing was
            sufficient to show that the enemy was alert and watching every move. About 11 o'clock
            the command halted for dinner. The march was continued in the afternoon in the same
            deliberate manner, and the enemy still showed himself occasionally, firing and then
            retreating. The command bivouacked about 4:30 o'clock in the afternoon near Buckhead, a
            cross road, some four or five miles south of east of Pace's Ferry, due north of the city
            of Atlanta, and distant from the city limits about five miles. Here the front line threw
            up a strong line of intrenchments. The command slept soundly, feeling secure and
            confident in its ability to hold its part of the line against any force. On the
            following morning, the 19th, the bugles of the Third brigade broke the stillness at 3:30
            a. m. In a few minutes the camp of the Eighty-sixth was in motion, preparing the morning
            meal and shaping up things for a busy day. The brigade moved out about 5:30 and advanced
            to the skirmish line, probably a half mile or a little more in front of its camping
            place. Here the Fifty-ninth Ohio was deployed upon the line as skirmishers and the
            Eighty-sixth was to act as its support. As soon as the lines were properly formed the
            order to press forward was given and every man stepped promptly onward. The enemy was in
            plain view, but with a few shots he withdrew gradually falling back as the Fifty-ninth
            advanced. The Eighty-sixth kept well up in good supporting distance of the Fifty-ninth.
            The enemy retired for about one mile, with but little show of resistance. Coming to an
            opening along a small  creek he showed a disposition of
            making a stand. Division commanders had been warned to be ready to give battle any
            moment; for it was now known that the Confederate army had changed commanders, that the
            able and careful Johnston had been relieved, and the fiery Hood given the command with
            the hope that his desperate fighting qualities might turn the tide against the matchless
            Sherman and his unrivaled army. General Sherman had warned his subordinates of what they
            might expect, and that they must be on the alert and be ever ready to meet and beat the
            impetuous Hood. Therefore, in the approach of this stream, Peach Tree creek, the utmost
            caution was used. On the farther bank of the stream the enemy had taken a strong
            position and was well fortified at the point where the road crossed the creek. At this
            point the stream was rather difficult to cross, which added strength to the enemy's
            position. As soon as it was apparent that the enemy was in some force and intended
            making a stand and dispute the crossing, the Eighty-sixth's flankers on the right were
            swung round into line with the Fifth-ninth skirmishers, extending the line some distance
            down stream. As soon as this movement was completed the Union forces began to get ready
            for the struggle. But the enemy was well posted with two pieces of artillery which were
            well served, and he therefore showed a strong disposition to stand his ground and fight,
            at least unless a much greater force should come against him. His artillery maintained a
            brisk fire on the Fifty-ninth and Eighty-sixth, but nevertheless the men still kept
            creeping upon him and getting into positions to command his works and artillery. He
            showed a bold front, and all the indications were for a savage little fight.
          When the flankers upon the right were swung into line with the skirmishers it brought
            them up to a rail fence in the edge of the woods, just north of an opening on the north
            bank of the creek, a like opening being on the opposite bank. As three members of the
            Eighty-sixth came up to this fence and began taking observations, a solitary Johnnie was
            in sight, a long legged fellow dressed in the Confederate gray  was walking from west to east across the opening on the south bank of the
            stream. He passed along as leisurely as though no enemy was within miles of him. One of
            the comrades remarked that he would quicken that "grayback's" step for him, and fired at
            him, but there was no visible effect. He continued on his way as if nothing had
            happened. Chaffing the comrade about his poor marksmanship, John Wilson and J. A. Barnes
            hastily threw their Enfields to their shoulders and fired at the lone wanderer as he was
            still proceeding leisurely on his way. As they fired they requested their somewhat
            chagrined comrade to keep a watch. It was quite evident that he had not been hurt. But
            never did any one witness a greater change in the manner of one who was apparently so
            leisurely walking out for health or pleasure, as took place in this gentleman, dressed
            in Confederate gray. If ever a racer proved his breeding by performance this fellow
            certainly did. He vanished from sight in the twinkling of an eye. He turned neither to
            the right nor to the left, but went straight to his "house of refuge," the woods in his
            front. He had no need to turn from a straightforward course, for there was not a
            blue-coat in all Georgia that could have fired another shot at him before he was out of
            sight. But he had scarcely reached shelter, when a white puff of smoke was seen and a
            little later the crack of guns was heard. Wilson and Barnes were still standing side by
            side. The spiteful szip of balls was heard all round them, and one passed between their
            heads and shattered a small pine tree about six inches in diameter just behind them.
            They, too, took to cover and the fun began, and the boys felt confident that the
            Confederates got their share of the lead. The apparent courtesies of the day, at least,
            were about even on this part of the line.
          About noon, or a little later, the flankers were relieved and joined the regiment at
            the road. Here Colonel Dick and the Lieutenant Colonel of the Fifty-ninth had maneuvered
            and watched, but as yet had not felt themselves justified in pushing the head of the
            column too far in advance and upon this fortified position. But they had been gradually
               strengthening their position and gaining ground, inch
            by inch, until as the afternoon drew on, the enemy's artillery was almost silenced by
            the sharp shooting of the Fifty-ninth's skirmishers, and a few volunteers from the
            Eighty-sixth. Wat Baker, of the Eighty-sixth, was quite a hero on this day. Baker had
            been termed a little "shaky" in a close place by his comrades, but to-day no man in the
            regiment showed more steadiness of nerve, or more cool, determined courage, He
            voluntarily went forward to sharp-shoot on his own hook, and pressed forward right up to
            the bank of the creek, carried rails and built himself a barricade a little to the right
            of the road and ensconced himself therein. It is but due to say that the Fifty-ninth and
            Eighty-sixth were accessories to this act of Baker by keeping a close watch upon the
            enemy. Now, too, the fire of the Fifty-ninth began to increase so that a veritable
            hail-storm of lead swept the parapet of its works. About 4 o'clock it was understood
            other columns were about ready to cross and arrangements were made to force the crossing
            here. It was red-hot now for a time, but the skirmishers of the gallant Fifty-ninth held
            squarely to the work and kept the enemy closely confined within his intrenchments. About
            5 o'clock the enemy once more manned his guns and opened fire. It was at short range and
            the shells burst in the faces of the men and the grape and canister-shot rattled around
            them like hail. But the preparation for an assault upon his works faltered not, and
            Colonel Dick was forming the regiment, that had been lying down, to make a dash right in
            the face of the guns for their capture, when heavens, what a racket! Was the enemy
            shooting fence rails, or what was the matter? The rebel artillerists were broken up and
            demoralized, and in the excitement and hurry had fired their rammer—a fatal
            mistake. The unearthly whiz and whirr attracted the attention of the Union lines, and
            when it was discovered what it was, a shout went up. No time was taken in getting into
            line. The Colonel shouted, "Forward, Eighty-sixth," and it went across that creek with a
            rush, and the whole kit of Confedeoates took to their heels, or, at least, all who were
            not too  badly frightened to run; for about sixty of them
            remained in their works, and were captured with their two pieces of artillery, among
            them being a Lieutenant Colonel, several Captains and First and Second Lieutenants.
            Wishing to do full justice to the gallant Fifty-ninth it must be said that it was always
            at the front, as its position demanded, and those on the skirmish line in the race,
            having the start, kept it. Both regiments acted in concert and were justly proud of
            their day's achievements. The prisoners gave a doleful story of their day's trials. They
            said actually that they had not dared to stick their heads above the works only at the
            extremest peril of their lives, and a number of dead bodies in their trenches verified
            this statement. This was the reason of their capture. A strong skirmish line with a good
            support pursued them for some distance, and the rest of the brigade took a strong
            position on the hill formerly occupied by the enemy and fortified it, facing in the
            other direction, and thus made the crossing of Peach Tree creek secure. Sometime after
            nightfall the regiment was relieved and returned to its bivouac ground of the previous
            night at Buckhead, where it arrived about 11 o'clock at night. It had been an arduous
            but a successful day's work.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXV.  PEACH TREE CREEK TO LOVEJOY'S STATION.
          Closing in On Atlanta—Clear Creek—A Hot Time—The Eighty-sixth in
            Front of the Gate City—The Battle of the 22d of July—Skirmishing and Making
            Demonstrations—The Battle of Ezra Church—The Great Move
            Around—Atlanta—Destroying Railroads—Hood's Flight From
            Atlanta—His Stores Destroyed and Magazines Blown Up—The Battle of
            Jonesboro—The Battle of Lovejoy's Station—Sherman Withdraws to
            Atlanta—The Losses of the Campaign—Congratulations From President
            Lincoln.
          Wood's division was again in motion by 5 o'clock on the morning of the 20th, moving to
            the left to connect with Stanley, who had also moved to the left to touch elbows with
            Schofield's command that had closed up McPherson's right, the Fifteenth corps.
            McPherson's command was swinging round from Decatur toward Atlanta for the final
            struggle. About 10 o'clock, having proceeded perhaps four miles with great caution,
            Wood's division was halted at some intrenchments which Stanley's division had left when
            moving to the left. It remained here quite a while, and the regiment took advantage of
            the time and prepared dinner, and was soon again ready for any duty. Shortly after
            dinner the march was again resumed, but the progress was extremely slow as the roads
            were badly blockaded. The country was almost wholly covered with a heavy forest, and an
            attack might be expected at any time. About 5 o'clock p. m., the skirmishers of
            Stanley's division became hotly engaged with those of the enemy to such a degree as to
            strongly threaten a battle. A little later Wood's skirmishers were also engaged and the
            skirmish battle was quite hot. Wood's skirmishers pressed forward in a most determined
            manner and drove those of the enemy some distance from where the battle began. The line
            of battle also pressed forward and confidently  expected
            to meet the enemy in force, but did not. The alignment being completed the men were
            ordered to fortify as speedily as possible. The command remained here at this line for
            the night. There had been some heavy firing to the right during the afternoon, in fact,
            the great battle of Peach Tree Creek had been fought and won by the Union forces.
            Newton's division, of the Fourth corps, about a half mile south of where Wood forced the
            crossing of the creek, had been first attacked, and afterwards successively from left to
            right the divisions of the Twentieth corps. This battle took place about the same time
            that Schofield, with the Twenty-third corps, and Howard, with Stanley's and Wood's
            divisions, were pressing some distance farther to the left. The Eighty-sixth threw out
            skirmishers and rested quietly for the night, feeling sure that the morning would bring
            duties no less arduous than those of the preceeding days.
          The Eighty-sixth was undisturbed by the skirmishing, that was a daily and hourly
            business. On the morning of the 21st a detail was made from the Eighty-sixth for the
            skirmish line. The men were scarcely upon the line and the old relief gone when the
            order was given to "Forward." There was not a commissioned officer upon this part of the
            line. The skirmishers of the Third brigade, commanded by a Sergeant, did not hesitate,
            and when the order was given to advance, these veterans went briskly forward through
            woods, through thickets, over hills and across hollows. This command was now in the
            "breaks" of Clear creek. Crossing a small stream the line of skirmishers climbed the
            hill on the rebel side. All this advance had taken less time than it has taken to write
            it. But during the succeeding four hours the skirmish fire from both sides was extremely
            hot. As rapidly as the skirmishers could load they would fire. Of course they sought
            protection behind trees and logs, but the manner in which the enemy's skirmishers peeled
            the bark from the sheltering trees was a credit to their marksmanship. The distance
            between the Union lines and those of the enemy was perhaps one or two hundred yards, and
            anywhere in the neutral ground a man would be doomed to certain death.  One Eighty-sixth skirmisher heated his gun so hot by rapid
            firing that it actually melted the soldering of the lower sight and it came off the
            barrel. More than one gun was so hot that it would burn the hand very quickly if placed
            on the lower part of the barrel. Another relief came out about 9 o'clock a. m., but it
            was scarcely posted until the enemy skipped out, leaving the Union boys in possession of
            his evacuated works. This line was only an out-post and not a main line. The command was
            soon ordered into line and advanced in battle array, the Eighty-sixth being in the
            second line. The progress was slow. About 2 o'clock p. m. the men had a breathing spell
            and dined. Later in the afternoon, having closed up on the enemy, the Eighty-sixth was
            ordered to stack arms and carry rails for the front line to assist it building in haste
            a line of works, as an attack was expected, and as it was in an exposed position. A
            heavy line of the enemy's skirmishers was only distant about three hundred yards and was
            keeping up a sharp fire, and with considerable effect. The Eighty-sixth faced the music,
            but it was of a most unpleasant and unhealthy kind. Every man worked like a Trojan. Here
            fell Thomas McCartney, of Company D, shot dead by the enemy's skirmishers. There were
            several wounded whose names can not now be recalled. The work being finally completed,
            and the first line secure in its position, the Eighty-sixth withdrew to its bivouac, and
            suppered on hard tack, beans, pickled pork and coffee, and slept as though profound
            peace reigned over all. To put it briefly, with skirmishing, marching, and fatigue duty
            the men were almost "done up." Rest and sleep were absolute necessities.
          General McPherson's Army of the Tennesee was swinging round from Decatur and advancing
            on Atlanta on the extreme left—from the east. Hooker and Palmer, on the
            right—the latter on the extreme right—had also advanced and the whole army
            was once more well up to the enemy's works. In case he retired, it would probably be to
            take a position within the forts in and around Atlanta and his connecting works, and
            these were presumably stronger than  any which yet had
            been confronted. Should the matchless Sherman fail to secure Atlanta, his former
            successes, now reckoned the greatest during this great war up to this time, would be
            counted as nothing, and his star now shining with such splendor would undoubtedly wane.
            But Sherman was not to fail. Aided by Thomas, Howard, Schofield, and others, and all
            these backed by the great and splendid army, he could not. It was not so cast. This
            great army of veteran soldiers, the equal of Caesar's legions or the Grecian phalanx,
            never ceased to hammer and bang, to batter, break and destroy Hood's army—an army
            of the purest Southern mettle—in open field, in camp, on the flank, in the center
            and under cover of the strongest intrenchments. It was to the rebel host an ever
            present, gigantic, sleepless, devastating monster, implacable as fate, crushing all
            before it. or going off in a rollicking, wild, tempestuous mood around the Confederate
            army, to smash its railroad connections and obliterate its communications. It swallowed
            with ravenous maw all subsistence within reach of its ten thousand tentacles, and
            trampled under foot and wallowed upon it with utter recklessness in the spirit of
            destruction that which it could not otherwise use. It struck here and there staggering
            blows, until Hood knew not what next to expect or which way to turn; and Jeff Davis, the
            Confederacy's demi-god, was himself dumbfounded and frightened into a state of nervous
            trepidation almost beyond belief, and, in fact, little short of actual collapse. It was
            plain to be seen by all that General Sherman and his Western boys were at the throat of
            the Confederacy and that its days were numbered.
          The morning of the 22d of July found the members of the Eighty-sixth, but imperfectly
            rested from the previous day's labors. In fact, the labors for several days previous had
            been especially heavy and wearisome. The nights were short and the hours allotted for
            rest were insufficient to fully recover from the exhausting labors of the day. The enemy
            had again fallen back from his works of the previous evening. The command moved out
            about 7 a. m., advancing in a cautious manner. The Third brigade, of Wood's division,
               proceeded about two miles in battle array through woods
            and fields, over hills and across hollows, stopping for nothing, the Eighty-sixth in the
            front line. At length, crossing a stream—Clear creek or one of its
            tributaries—the Eighty-sixth mounted a wooded hill or ridge and came into plain
            view of the enemy's main line of intrenchments for the defense of the city of Atlanta,
            distant about three-quarters of a mile, or a little less, with a strong line of skirmish
            pits less than a quarter of a mile away from the Eighty-sixth's regimental front.
            Colonel Dick speedily gave orders to perfect the regimental alignment. The Colonel's
            alignment of the regiment was not changed, and the men fortified their line as they were
            first placed upon the ridge. The whole regiment worked hard and it soon had a good
            strong line of intrenchments. The rebel skirmishers could, however, make it unpleasantly
            "hot" whenever they chose to do so, nor did they seem to be in a very amiable mood while
            the men were engaged in constructing their fortifications, but made the musket balls
            fairly whistle and sing. The main line of the enemy's intrenchments, which was in plain
            view, fairly swarmed with Confederates who seemed to be working very industriously to
            complete or strengthen their works. By 11:30 a. m. the men felt pretty securely
            intrenched, with the Twenty-third army corps in position and fortified on the left.
          About noon firing was heard on the extreme left announcing the attack on Dodge's
            Sixteenth corps of McPherson's Army of the Tennessee. It grew in volume rapidly as
            troops farther to the right became engaged. It is not the intention to attempt a
            description of the great battle of Atlanta fought by the gallant Army of the Tennessee,
            contending almost unaided against the rebel hordes, nor how fell the gallant McPherson
            and how the heroic Logan took up the desperate chance of battle, and with the courage a
            Ney and the skill of a Napoleon, fought it out to a successful and magnificent finish.
            Nor will it be told how imperturbable and grand the great Sherman was when word was
            brought him that his loved Lieutenant, McPherson, had fallen. He was simply
            unapproachably grand in this supreme ordeal. Great in council,  he was still greater in the field and in action, and the greater the
            occasion and the more severe the trial the higher rose and clearer shone the bright sun
            of Sherman's great military genius. As was said of him by one of his ablest
            subordinates: "His mind seemed never so clear, his confidence never so strong, his
            spirit never so inspiring, and his temper never so amiable as in the crisis of some
            fierce struggle like that of the day when McPherson fell in front of Atlanta."
          The Eighty-sixth, with the rest of the Army of the Cumberland, received orders to be
            ready to move. This meant that aid was to be sent to the Army of the Tennessee if
            necessary. General Sherman himself says: "I remained near the Howard House, receiving
            reports and sending orders, urging Generals Thomas and Schofield to take advantage of
            the absence from their front of so considerable a body as was evidently engaged on our
            left, and, if possible, to make a lodgment in Atlanta itself; but they reported that the
            lines to their front, at all accessible points, were strong, by nature and by art, and
            were fully manned." But the skirmish lines made strong demonstrations and threatened an
            attack, while the line of battle stood to arms, but it was not deemed prudent to make
            more than a strong demonstration. Still the movements evidently led the enemy to believe
            that an attack was contemplated, as he opened a hot fire all along the line. The roar of
            all his available artillery made the noise of battle scarcely less on this part of the
            line than that on the line of the Army of the Tennessee. The batteries replied giving
            him shot for shot. The tide of battle ebbed and flowed almost without ceasing—a
            red and furious scourge upon both armies—until about 5 o'clock in the afternoon,
            when the enemy, being thoroughly beaten, withdrew his shattered legions safely within
            his strong line of intrenchments. Hood had again been beaten and quite severely handled
            by a small portion of Sherman's great army when he had thought to crush it and beat it
            in detail, but he had been foiled and had lost heavily of the flower of his army, among
            whom was Major General William H. T. Walker, killed. In the evening the Eighty-sixth
            received orders to sleep close to its works and  to be
            ready to repel an attack. But Hood had had enough for one day and the men slept in
            comparative quiet that night. On the morning of the 23d the Eighty-sixth awoke
            considerably refreshed from a good all night sleep.
          Sherman's grand army was now facing the immediate defenses of the city of Atlanta. Two
            great battles had been fought since crossing the Chattahoochee river and the enemy had
            been severely handled and badly beaten in both instances—he being the attacking
            party. But such desperate fighting had taught the whole Union army, from Sherman down to
            private, what they might expect of Hood whenever he had a hope of gaining ground by
            attacking in an unlooked for direction with a chance of surprising and crippling his
            enemy. However, Hood and his generals and privates had also learned of the stubborn
            fighting qualities of the men from the West—a lesson which they did not soon
            forget. On account of the general tension felt by both armies the Eighty-sixth with the
            rest of the Union forces were up on the morning of the 23d before daylight and
            breakfasted. Soon after sunrise the enemy's batteries opened on the position of the
            Eighty-sixth in a brisk manner. The shot and shell shrieked and roared in a way quite
            complimentary to the accuracy of the rebel gunners' aim, but the men were safely
            ensconced behind good strong breastworks. It was deemed prudent to strengthen the works
            and place some artillery on the regimental line. Accordingly during the forenoon of the
            23d two pieces of the Sixth Ohio battery were placed in position on the line of the
            Eighty-sixth's intrenchments. They were brass pieces, Napolean 12-pounders, and
            splendidly served. Again in the afternoon the enemy opened a hot fire on the
            Eighty-sixth. He chose to direct his fire upon it probably because it lay in plain view.
            He sent over shot and shell in abundance and made it quite unsafe to be out from under
            cover of the protection of the works. One solid shot struck the regiment's line of works
            and completely shattered it where it struck. A piece of timber knocked from the log
            struck James A. Shaw on the hip, wounding him severely so that he died in  about one week afterward. He was just in the act of filling
            his pipe to take a smoke, or reaching for some tobacco to fill it, when he was struck.
            The same shot struck a gun which was laid up against the head-log and knocked it against
            the head of Atkinson Hill, bending it almost at right angles upon itself against his
            head. He was quite severely hurt by being bruised, but his wound did not prove
            dangerous. The ball rolled to the foot of the hill back of the works and was picked up
            and brought back up to the trench. The fire was maintained some time, but this was about
            all the damage done to the Eighty-sixth that day. On the 24th the skirmishing and
            artillery firing were repeated at intervals throughout the day. Generals Sherman,
            Thomas, Howard, and others rode round the lines viewing and examining the situation of
            the army. On this day, too, the Fifty-ninth Ohio constructed a line of intrenchments and
            occupied it in front of the Eighty-sixth which somewhat relieved it from watching for
            the enemy, but in no sense screened it from his fire. On the 25th the Eighty-sixth
            received an order to extend its line of works on the left well up to the banks of a
            small stream—a tributary of Clear creek—which was a few rods to left of the
            regiment's first line. The enemy made it extremely hot for the fatigue party during the
            entire time it was at work. John Mann, of Company H, and Jacob Hauk, of Company B, were
            slightly wounded. On the 26th there was the usual skirmishing. On the 27th, the Army of
            the Tennessee was in motion from the left to take position on the extreme right under
            command of General O. O. Howard, the Fourth corps' former commander. Upon discovering
            this movement the enemy opened a hot artillery fire all along the line, which was well
            maintained for some time with short intervals. The Sixth Ohio battery, two guns of which
            were on the line of the Eighty-sixth, showed some fine practice, making some splendid
            shots at the enemy's works in reply. As the evening advanced, however, the fire
            slackened.
          On the morning of the 28th of July the Eighty-sixth was up betimes. The morning was
            pleasant and not so excessively hot as it had been for some days previous. The movement
               of the Army of the Tennessee was continued on the
            right. This caused some irritation and the rebel skirmishers were in bad humor. In turn
            the blue coats replied manfully. In the afternoon the rebel artillery opened a strong
            fire. Bridges' Illinois battery and the Sixth Ohio battery replied with interest. Later
            in the day it was learned the cause of the enemy's irritable mood. Hood had ordered an
            attack on the Army of the Tennessee, which was going into position on the right. One
            that day the skirmishers were ordered to advance. Dashing forward in a most impetuous
            manner they captured the enemy's line of pits, taking quite a number of prisoners before
            they could get out of their pits. Others took time by the forelock and started a little
            sooner and escaped. These the brave blue coats pursued right up to the enemy's main line
            of intrenchments, when a line of battle was seen to come over the works and advance. The
            Union skirmishers fell back in orderly manner, showing great coolness and steadiness of
            nerve in the face of overpowering numbers. Falling back some distance the skirmish line
            took up a good position which was intrenched and maintained as long as the command
            remained here.
          Howard's battle on the right was known as the battle of Ezra Church. The brunt of the
            battle fell upon Logan's Fifteenth corps, but the enemy was easily defeated. Great loss
            was inflicted upon the assaulting forces. It is probable that the attack of the Union
            skirmishers was timed to act as a diversion in favor of the right. It certainly had the
            effect to create the suspicion in Hood's mind that his right would in turn be attacked
            by the Army of the Cumberland, as late in the afternoon he ordered Hardee to leave his
            corps on the right and take command of the attacking forces, while he, Hood, would
            remain where he could watch the right which was threatened by Thomas with his army.
          On the 29th, 30th and 31st there was the usual cannonading and skirmishing throughout
            the days and nights, but nothing decisive occurred. On the 1st of August the
            Eighty-sixth, with several other regiments of the brigade, received orders to be ready
            to march at 6:30 a. m. They reported at  division
            headquarters at 7 o'clock and received instructions. They were to march to left rear of
            the divisions and corps some distance and build a line of intrenchments, the extreme
            left to be sharply refused, while the right of the newly constructed line was to connect
            with the left of the Third division line of intrenchments. This was done preparatory to
            moving Schofield's Twenty-third corps to the right in the endeavors of General Sherman
            to out-flank Hood and reach the Montgomery and Atlanta railroad. Schofield's command
            moved on the night of the 1st, leaving the Fourth corps on the extreme left of the army,
            Wood's division being the extreme left of the infantry line of Sherman's grand army in
            front of Atlanta. This position it held until the final move around Atlanta was
            undertaken. The new line of intrenchments was occupied by cavalry and mounted infantry.
            On the 2d, during the forenoon, there was the usual skirmishing with some artillery
            firing. Sherman. however, was pushing the right vigorously forward toward the railroad.
            In the afternoon the Eighty-sixth, with the rest of the brigade, were ordered into the
            ditch with gun and cartridge-box. This command was promptly executed, and in a very few
            minutes the skirmish line was ordered forward. The blue-coats went across the open field
            in their front very leisurely and in splendid style until within a couple of hundred
            yards of the enemy's line of rifle-pits, when they received the enemy's full fire.
            Previous to this there had been a few scattering shots fired, but now the whole line of
            the enemy's skirmishers gave them a fiery blast. Then the advancing line gave the yell
            and literally ran over the enemy, taking the pits by storm and capturing thirty or forty
            prisoners,the others saving themselves by starting early. The gallant manner in which
            the line advanced and took possession of the enemy's pits is worthy of all commendation
            and praise. Company I, of the Eighty-sixth, had one man wounded. The line was held
            twenty or thirty minutes, when a line of battle was seen to come over the enemy's works
            and advance. The skirmishers fell back in good order and took up their position in the
            fortified line on the hill. No further attack was made.
          
          From this time on while in front of the city it was one round of skirmishing and
            "demonstrating" against the enemy with fierce artillery duels thrown in for noise. No
            pen or pencil can describe or paint the scenes of those days to one who was not an eye
            witness of them in a manner to be comprehended. The trials undergone and the dangers
            escaped by all who passed through the fearful days BEFORE ATLANTA can never be told in words.
          On the 5th of August the Eighty-sixth, led by Colonel G. F. Dick, made a demonstration.
            Filing out over the works the regiment advanced down the hill in front, passed that of
            the Fifty-ninth Ohio, and on toward the enemy. As it passed down the hill in front of
            Fifty-ninth the enemy literally shaved it with a storm of balls, yet the regiment
            marching in open order escaped with a few slightly wounded. One comrade had his clothing
            cut, another some of his accouterments, while a third had his chin whiskers
            unceremoniously clipped by a musket ball. Having crossed a small stream in front of the
            Fifty-ninth and ascending half way up the hill on the other side, the regiment was
            ordered to halt and lie down. Now, that the men were not in motion and comparatively
            secure from musketry fire, the batteries opened at a lively rate, dropping their shells
            uncomfortably near. After marching around for a time the regiment returned to camp.
          On the 6th a heavy detail was made from the Eighty-sixth for the skirmish line, and
            from this time on until the close of the seige the boys had a full share of the fun.
          On the 12th the Eighty-sixth was again ordered out to make a demonstration against the
            enemy. The orders were promptly obeyed and with the Colonel at its head the regiment
            marched over the hills. There were no laggards in ranks that afternoon. The ravine was
            not of itself a disagreeable place to lounge at ease. Through it ran a pleasant little
            brook, pellucid and bright, that babbled merrily on its way to the Chattahoochee. But
            even here the enemy's shells rendered it anything but a desirable position to hold. As
            soon as the Eighty-sixth had taken its position in the ravine the skirmishers were
            ordered to advance and had a  hot, malicious time with the
            Confederates, trotting them out of their pits at a lively rate and annoying them not a
            little. The regiment was out about thirty minutes, but that was quite long enough. On
            the 17th a demonstration was made by the Thirteenth Ohio, Seventeenth Kentucky and the
            Eighty-sixth Indiana. As long as there was a man of the three regiments in sight passing
            over the hill the enemy was busily engaged in popping away at him. The Thirteenth had
            one man severely wounded. They were out only for a short time, when all three regiments
            returned to their respective camps. In a short time, however, the Thirteenth and
            Seventeenth were out again going the rounds of the circuit and drawing a sharp fire from
            the enemy, which fell upon the camps as well as the troops in position.
          On the 18th, in the forenoon, the Ninth Kentucky made a demonstration, and had two or
            three men wounded. About 12:30, the Seventh Kentucky made a demonstration against the
            enemy, returning to its camp in a short time. There were a few hours of comparative
            quiet—until about 3 o'clock p. m., when the Eighty-sixth was ordered out. The
            regiment marched out promptly led by Colonel Dick over the hill toward the enemy to the
            music of the guns of the rebel sharpshooters. In the ravine the regiment filed left and
            made a circuit of the hill out of sight of the enemy, and came up from the rear, and
            again marched out upon the breast of the hill, and then marched to left in plain view of
            the enemy to create the impression that our forces were massing upon the left. About 2
            o'clock a. m. on the morning of the 19th, the regiment was called out and ordered to be
            ready at 3 o'clock. The Eighty-sixth was ready at the appointed time and moved out to
            the left. The command moved to the left rear some two or three miles and halted, waiting
            daylight. Taking a defensible position, the command breakfasted at sunrise. Shortly
            after a strong detachment was sent out on a reconnoissance. This force returned about 10
            a. m., and reported that it found the enemy in force some distance in front and
            skirmished with him. A few were wounded and a Captain in the Ninetieth Ohio was killed.
            Soon after the  return of the reconnoitering force the
            command moved still farther to the left. Here the Eighty-sixth drew rations of hard
            tack, coffee and sugar and some sanitary rations of dried apples and onions. About 3 p.
            m. orders were received to return to camp, reaching there a little before sun-down, but
            to find the camp stripped. The troops from the other regiments had come in and carried
            off bunks, tent-poles and all movables, to their own camps for their own comfort. This
            excited the ire of the boys of the Eighty-sixth, but aside from an irruption of
            profanity, nothing was attempted to rectify the error. Immediately the skirmish line of
            the Third brigade made a spirited demonstration against the enemy, attacking the rebel
            skirmish line. No results of special advantage could be obtained by the line of
            blue-coats and they leisurely returned to their position in the pits. Again on the 20th
            the Eighty-sixth was called up at 2 a. m., and ordered to be ready to move in thirty
            minutes. Colonel Dick was at the head of the regiment in column in good time and marched
            to the position of the previous day. Remained here until 9:30 a. m., when it was ordered
            to return to its position in the trenches. On the 21st the Eighty-sixth repaired its
            loss of bunks and tent-poles. Many necessaries for camp-life had been carried away and
            it took a great deal of work to supply the camp with those things to make the men
            reasonably comfortable. On this day Captain W. S. Sims, of Company F, took leave of the
            officers and men of the regiment, having resigned on account of continued serious
            illness. The Captain was a brave, faithful and efficient officer, and he left with the
            kindly wishes and to the regret of the entire regiment.
          It had been the rumor in camp for ten or twelve days that General Sherman contemplated
            placing one corps at the Chattahoochee river and with the rest of the army make a
            circuit of desolation around Atlanta, destroying Hood's railway connections, and thus
            force him to come out and fight for the possession of the city or evacuate it. Of this
            Sherman says: "On the 13th of August, I gave general orders for the Twentieth corps to
            draw back to the railroad bridge  at the Chattahoochee, to
            protect our trains, hospitals, spare artillery, and the railroad depot, while the rest
            of the army should move bodily to some point on the Macon railroad below East Point.
            Circumstances, however, prevented this movement being executed at once."
          On the evening of the 25th of August, after a day of rumors and flying reports of all
            kinds throughout the camps and trenches, came the orders for the contemplated movement
            above referred to. The Eighty-sixth with the rest of the Fourth corps were ordered that
            as soon as it was dark, so as not to be seen by the enemy, to strike tents and get
            everything ready. The move was to commence at 8 o'clock p. m. The Eighty-sixth was
            ready, and Colonel Dick only awaited orders to set forward. But the regiment did not
            leave its breastworks and old camp until near the hour of midnight, when it moved
            slowly, silently, but steadily to the right rear, halting just before daylight and
            securing a little rest and sleep. The command was well in behind the Twentieth corps
            which still held its line of works, while Garrard's cavalry occupied the vacated works.
            At this place the men were ordered to fortify and began the work, when they received
            orders to continue the march. The day was excessively hot and many suffered greatly from
            the heat. In the afternoon a shower of rain fell, rendering the roads slippery and made
            marching very laborious. Many will long remember this day's march and its trials. Near
            sundown the command bivouacked well to the right of the former position of General
            Sherman's great army.
          During the night of the 26th, the Twentieth corps drew out of its works and retired to
            an intrenched line at the Chattahoochee river. On the 27th the command marched a few
            miles in the forenoon, and intrenched its bivouac in the afternoon, an attack being
            apprehended. The enemy's batteries maintained a brisk fire for sometime, but did no
            serious damage. The position of the Eighty-sixth was on a high hill and it had a
            splendid view of the surrounding country, especially in front, which was mostly heavily
            wooded. The location of their skirmish line could be plainly  seen and farther away was a great cloud of dust evidently caused by a body
            of marching troops.
          The command remained at this place of bivouac until near sundown on the evening of the
            28th, when the bugles of the brigade sounded the "assembly," and the regiment soon
            marched out guarding the supply train. In consequence of this duty the progress was very
            slow and the marching tedious and irritating. The command guarding the train bivouacked
            about midnight after a most exasperating night march. The morning of the 29th was a busy
            one for the Eighty-sixth. The command was aroused early and breakfasted soon after
            sun-up. The brigade was soon on the move to rejoin the command and had rations issued
            while on the road, a brief halt being called for that purpose. Soon after resuming the
            march General Thomas' headquarters were reached, where baggage was left, and started out
            on quick time to reach the Montgomery and Atlanta railroad, two miles distant. Turning
            to the left the command marched about a mile toward East Point, there stacked arms, and
            proceeded to the destruction of the railroad. This was done by prying up the ends of the
            ties and then enough men would get hold of the ends of the ties and turn ties, iron
            rails and all over like a great prairie sod from a huge plow. After this the rails were
            knocked loose from the ties, the ties were piled and burned, the rails placed upon the
            burning ties and heated and bent or twisted, until unfit for use until worked over. In
            this manner the railroad was completely destroyed. The task was completed and the
            command started on its return to bivouac near headquarters about 1 o'clock. There the
            Eighty-sixth furnished a detail for picket. The command moved out on the 30th at 6
            o'clock on the route of the previous day until the railroad was crossed, when it then
            turned to the left and marched in the direction of the Macon and Atlanta road. The line
            of march after crossing the railroad was nearly directly east. Generals Sherman and
            Thomas accompanied this column while on the march. The weather was extremely hot, which
            rendered marching difficult. There was some heavy cannonading on the right where General
               Howard, with the Army of the Tennessee, was advancing.
            Skirmishing in the immediate front was light, but still the command had to feel its way
            with extreme caution. Appearances were quite threatening at one time during the
            afternoon; the column was halted, and the men ordered to intrench, but soon received
            orders to "forward." It pressed on about one and a half miles and was halted again,
            where another line of intrenchments was begun, but quit work for supper before very much
            was done. After supper it moved forward about a half mile and bivouacked for the
            night.
          On the morning of the 31st the command was up early and breakfasted before sun-up. The
            boys were now in a section of country where they could gobble roasting ears, and
            consequently were living high for campaigners. The artillery opened fire on a rebel
            train during the morning and made it pretty hot for it, apparently delivering a very
            accurate fire and causing the Confederates to move out at a lively rate. The early part
            of the day was quite cloudy, but warm and sultry, which did not conduce to comfort. The
            command moved out about 8 o'clock, but did not go far until an alignment was made, and
            the troops were ordered to intrench themselves. The work had not progressed far when
            they were again ordered forward. The advance was made steadily, bearing somewhat to the
            left. The corps soon passed through a line of rebel intrenchments, supposed to have been
            recently abandoned, and showing the enemy to be in some force in the immediate front.
            The line of march was nearly parallel with the Montgomery railroad. About noon the
            command halted for dinner,, still near the railroad. Later it advanced about one mile,
            bearing to the right, and bivouacked for the night, the Eighty-sixth furnishing a heavy
            detail for the picket or skirmish line. There was some firing on the left in the
            evening, Schofield's corps having come up with the enemy. The First and Second divisions
            of the Fourth corps being upon the right, the Second connecting with the Third division
            and the First to the right of that. General Jeff C. Davis, with the Fourteenth army
            corps, was still to the right of these two divisions, but moved off early in the  day to connect with Howard's Army of the Tennessee. So the
            army became divided and extended very much in the face of the enemy, who might, if
            cognizant of the situation, repeat his tactics of July with a better chance of success
            than in his former attack, as the two corps would not constitute a force numerically as
            strong as the force before attacked.
          On the morning of the 1st of September, Wood's division moved forward toward the Macon
            and Atlanta railroad, nearly due east, about 8 o'clock. It soon connected with Newton's
            Second division and pressed on steadily, but slowly. After a halt of a half hour at noon
            for dinner the march was continued, the Third brigade reaching the railroad about 2
            o'clock in the afternoon. Stacking arms, the men proceeded to wreck the railroad in an
            effective manner. After that was done the command lay here for some time awaiting
            orders. It then advanced, moving south along the railroad. Cannonading and heavy
            musketry could be heard in front and a little to the right of the railroad, the
            Fourteenth corps having attacked the enemy. As the battle-field was approached the pace
            was quickened. The command, Wood's division, was ordered to close up and were massed by
            "columns of divisions" well up to the line of battle on the left of the railroad, and
            there awaited further orders. The enemy at once opened with their batteries at quite a
            lively rate, although his fire was not very destructive. Just as the division arrived
            the Fourteenth army corps charged the enemy's works a little to the right of the
            railroad, and captured the salient angle of the enemy's line at that point. Estes'
            brigade of Baird's division carried the salient, with Carlin's division upon his left,
            and Morgan upon his right. These forces closing down upon the forces contending with
            Estes' troops captured General Govan and eight hundred and sixty-five men. This was the
            second assault made here by the Fourteenth corps. The enemy fell back, formed a new
            line, and held it securely until nightfall, Hardee showing good generalship and the
            splendid fighting qualities of his men. The columns of attack suffered severely. The
            enemy also suffered heavily in killed and wounded, besides  losing a great many prisoners. This was known as the Battle of Jonesboro'. Some time
            after the heavy fighting was over Wood's division was moved farther to the left and
            bivouacked about 10 o'clock p. m.
          About 1 o'clock on the morning of September 2, the men were aroused from a deep and
            tired sleep to view the indications to the northward. There at a long distance could be
            seen the reflection of a great light against the sky as if a huge fire was present. It
            was in the direction of the city of Atlanta, but that was all that was known. It looked
            encouraging as it was known that all the enemy's lines of railroad communication were
            now in possession of Union troops. But tired, as the men were, they soon sought their
            lowly beds to rest and sleep that they might be ready for the morrow's duties. About 4
            o'clock the men were again aroused. Now the light was even greater than before, and to
            the great light was added the sound of heavy cannonading or reports of the bursting of
            innumerable shells. Had Atlanta been attacked by the forces remaining behind, or was it
            being evacuated, was the question upon every tongue. "The city is on fire!" "The rebels
            have attacked the Twentieth corps at the river!" "The rebels are burning their immovable
            stores and evacuating the city!" and other similar remarks according to the ideas of the
            various speakers, could be heard here and there all over the bivouac. The latter was
            believed to be the state of affairs and the men felt glad at heart to think that they
            were about to be successful in getting possession of this, the enemy's stronghold. But
            the men were too tired to stay up long and watch even the burning of the rebel munitions
            of war, as they verily believed it to be, when it was not a matter of compulsion, and
            therefore all were soon again quietly sleeping. But all were turned out and breakfasted
            shortly after daylight. Some light skirmishing occurred in the early morning with the
            enemy's rear-guard, he having evacuated during the night.
          The command moved back near the railroad where it was shelled so lively the previous
            evening and drew rations. —three days' to do four—hard tack, bacon, sugar
            and coffee.  The command was then marched up to the
            outskirts of the town and again halted for a time. The enemy in his extreme haste, left
            many of his dead unburied, and large numbers of his wounded behind. The march was
            continued on to the southward, still following the retreating enemy. Wood's division
            bore off to the left of the railroad somewhat, but continued the march on a country
            wagon road running almost parallel with the railroad. After proceeding some five or six
            miles, three companies of the Eighty-sixth were placed out to the left as flankers for
            the column in its advance. The division soon encountered the enemy in an intrenched
            position. A line of battle was formed. Orderlies and staff officers dashed here and
            there, up and down the line, bearing orders and giving instructions to the brigade
            commanders and commanders of regiments. Everywhere were seen the indications which
            betokened that an assault was to be made upon the enemy's position. The line of flankers
            was ordered to swing round as skirmishers to protect the flank of the column of the
            Third brigade in its assault upon the enemy. The line of battle advanced slowly until it
            was believed to be within proper distance, when the yell was given and a dash made for
            the enemy and his works. Then came the tug of war. Knefler's brigade, on the extreme
            left, charged and carried the enemy's works, but could not maintain its hold, as it was
            subject to an enfilading fire on both flanks. The attack was nobly sustained for some
            time, the Confederates as bravely defending their position. The advantage was upon the
            enemy's side and the Union forces were, at length, compelled to give ground and retire
            with considerable loss. General T. J. Wood, the division commander, was severely
            wounded. Colonel Manderson, of the Nineteenth Ohio, was dangerously wounded. Captain
            Oscar O. Miller, Assistant Adjutant General, of the Third brigade, a noble officer, was
            killed. Lieutenant Colonel C. D. Bailey, of the Ninth Kentucky, was severely wounded.
            The Eighty-sixth lost a number of men. Eli Duchemin, of Company F, was mortally wounded.
            Orderly Sergeant J. M. Cast was struck in the bottom of the foot by  a musket ball, causing him considerable pain, but only inflicting a contused
            wound, not serious. Thomas B. Parks received a severe flesh wound through his shoulder.
            The ball inflcting this wound passed through his folded blanket both in front and behind
            his shoulder, cutting thirty-eight holes in his blanket and a notch out of one edge.
            This is known as the Battle of Lovejoy's Station.
          The skirmish fire continued quite sharp throughout the evening. The enemy thought for
            once he had the advantage. After a supper of bacon and hard tack, the Eighty-sixth, and
            the whole of the army on the front line, worked hard until nearly midnight constructing
            a line of intrenchments. General Sherman did not deem it advisable subsequently to press
            the attack, as he was led to believe that Hood had halted to cover his retreat, and then
            it was too late to intercept him.
          On the 3d the artillery was placed in position on the line of the division and kept up
            a hot fire on the enemy. He made up for his lack of artillery by the briskness of his
            skirmish firing which was almost uninterrupted. Quite a number of the regiment was
            wounded here on the 3d, 4th and 5th. On the 4th James Williams, of Company K, was
            severely wounded in the leg while lying in his pup tent just back of the line of works a
            few paces.
          The command remained here until the night of September 5. In the afternoon of that day
            orders were received to strike tents at dark. It was of course presumed that it would
            return to Atlanta and go into camp for a brief rest at least. There was much quiet joy
            and rejoicing in ranks, as the campaign had been one of unremitting toil and dangers,
            and all thought they had well earned a brief period of repose for recuperation.
          Sergeant Major T. H. B. McCain, who had been a member of Company I, and Hugh Reilly, of
            Company K, on that day received their commissions as First Lieutenant of their
            respective companies. The documents had scarcely reached their hands until they were
            detailed as officers in charge of the skirmish or picket line. On them devolved the duty
            of withdrawing the outposts, which was done about 11 p. m.  after the command had started toward Atlanta. The night march of the 5th was one of
            the hardest and most difficult short marches the Eighty-sixth ever made. It had rained
            very hard and the ground was wet and very slippery. Strict silence was enjoined on
            getting ready to leave camp. The regiment and column wound their way over steep slippery
            hills and hollows to the rear painfully slow. "Curses, not loud but deep," could be
            occasionally heard as some soldier took an extra vicious tumble, rolling down an
            embankment into a pool of water or fell into a wash-out gully. These headlong tumbles
            were innumerable and beyond description. The night was extremely dark and the route
            wholly strange, therefore the men were. at the mercy of every obstacle. If a man took
            only a half dozen tumbles he did not think himself particularly unfortunate. The
            fountains of profanity flowed freely when the men were once out of hearing distance of
            the enemy. But owing to the peculiarly trying conditions it is to be hoped that at that
            hour of the night the recording angel was kindly taking a nap, and that those deviations
            will not be charged up against the boys at the final muster. Wood's division arrived at
            Jonesboro about day-break. Passing through town a short distance the command was halted
            and allowed to breakfast. Skirmishing was resumed as soon as the enemy could catch up
            with Sherman's rear guard, which was not long after daylight, and continued throughout
            the day. The command moved several times during the day, but only a short distance each
            time. Orders were received on the evening of the 6th to be ready to march on the 7th at
            day-light. Resuming the march the following morning the command covered about eleven
            miles, and the Eighty-sixth bivouacked in a thick woods with a dense growth of
            underbrush. Ordered to construct a line of intrenchments as a precautionary measure.
            There was no indication of an attack but the enemy followed up and continued the
            skirmishing with the rear guard.
          On the 8th the Fourth corps reached Atlanta, passed through the city and witnessed the
            destruction it had assisted to accomplish in this city. It was truly dreadful to behold.
               The buildings were nearly all more or less shattered by
            shot and shell from the Union artillery, and the frame buildings nearest the lines were
            riddled with the musket balls. The residences, nearly all, had deep dug-outs with their
            doors or openings all to the "Sunny South;" none were opened for a welcome to the rude
            Northmen. To the great destruction which the Union forces had inflicted upon the city,
            Hood in turn had inflicted quite as much in destroying stores and munitions of war which
            he did not want to fall into General Sherman's hands, so the wreck was almost
            complete.
          The losses of the Confederates during this campaign, down to the capture of Atlanta,
            was estimated as follows: In skirmishing from Chattanooga to Atlanta, 6,000; Battle of
            Resaca, 2,500; Battles around Dallas, 3,500; Battle of Kenesaw Mountain, 1,000; Battles
            of July 20, 22 and 28, near Atlanta, 22,500; Other contests around Atlanta, 1,500; and
            battles near Jonesboro, 5,000; Total, 42,000. They lost more than twenty generals
            officers, and nearly fifty pieces of cannon, of which eight were 64-pounders, and fully
            25,000 small arms. General Johnston in his report gave his effective strength, infantry,
            artillery and cavalry at 51,000. On the other hand General Hood in his report says that
            on the 6th day of May, 1864, the army lay near Dalton awaiting the advance of the enemy.
            "Never had," said he, "so large a Confederate army assembled in the West. Seventy
            thousand effective men were in the easy direction of a single commander, whose good
            fortune it was to be able to give successful battle and redeem the losses of the past.
            Extraordinary methods had been used to secure an easy victory. The enemy, but little
            surpassed in numbers, none in organization and discipline, inferior in spirit and
            confidence, commenced his advance. The Confederate forces, whose faces and hopes were to
            the North, almost simultaneously commenced to retreat. The army had dwindled day by day
            to 47,250." This was up to the 18th of July when he assumed command. He says his losses
            up to the close of the campaign were over 5,000. It must be remembered that the
            Confederate army was constantly being reinforced, to say nothing of negroes  and other non-combatants engaged on the fortifications.
            "Effective strength" in Confederate reports meant only men and officers in line, and
            excluded teamsters and all camp followers. In the Union reports it included teamsters
            and detailed men on duty of whatever nature. So that General Hood was correct when he
            said Sherman's army in numbers "but little surpassed" Johnston's.
          The losses of Sherman's army during the campaign aggregated 35,353. Of this loss 5,165
            were killed, 25,685 were wounded, and 4,513 were missing or captured. The aggregate loss
            in the Army of the Cumberland was 20,990; in the Army of the Tennessee, 10,394; and the
            Army of the Ohio, 3,969. By corps the losses were as follows: Fourth, 7,325; Fourteenth,
            5,941; Twentieth, 5,941; Fifteenth, 4,758; Sixteenth, 2,377; Seventeenth, 3,259;
            Twenty-third, 3,969. Sherman in his "Memoirs" notes the number killed in the Seventeenth
            corps at 1,510, whereas it should be 422. As that corps had 1,038 missing or captured he
            included these among the killed. He reports the wounded at 1,674, nearly equal the
            number killed. His figures of losses in all the seven corps are widely at variance with
            the official reports as now published. Of the losses in the Fourth corps Wood's division
            lost as follows: Killed, 424; wounded. 2,074; missing, 268; total, 2,766. The Third
            brigade lost 73 killed, 443 wounded, 63 missing, a total of 579. The Eighty-sixth lost 2
            killed, and wounded 54, some of whom afterwards died from the effects, a total of
            56.
          In four months General Sherman had accomplished the task assigned him with a loss less
            than that of Grant's in the first twelve day's of his memorable campaign against
            Richmond. The men now looked upon Sherman as their Moses who had led them across the Red
            Sea of Battle to the Confederacy's central Capital. He had smitten the waves of the
            rebel hordes from Rocky Faced Ridge to Lovejoy's Station with his magic rod and they had
            disappeared. The muscadines were to the men as the grapes of the promised land. The
            Union soldiers marched through Atlanta feeling that they were conquerors, proud of their
            toils and marches,  proud of their past dangers, proud of
            their unexampled success and triumphs, and of their great military chief and his
            subordinates; proud of their great and noble President at Washington, confident in his
            ability to direct the ship of state, confident of his re-election, doubly assured by
            their recent great successes; confident of a speedy and final triumph of Union arms over
            every field; confident of the restoration of the supremacy of the National Government,
            and in the unity of the Nation. The soldiers of the Military Division of the
            Mississippi, were in a state of mind to fully enjoy the prospect of a short repose after
            the consummation of the purpose of such an arduous campaign. In glorious spirits, with
            the elastic springy step of veterans, the Eighty-sixth marched into camp on the
            afternoon of the 8th of September, two and half miles east of the city of Atlanta, to
            rest.
          It is not inappropriate to give here the opinions of some recognized great men
            regarding this truly marvelous campaign of General Sherman to Atlanta, in which service
            the Eighty-sixth bore such an honorable part—a part equal to that of any. Led by
            the gallant Colonel, George F. Dick, it never faltered in the performance of any duty
            assigned it on that campaign, and is, therefore, as a regiment, entitled to a regiment's
            full share of the glory of the arduous and dangerous duties nobly performed.
          General Jacob D. Cox, afterwards Secretary of War, a most intelligent and capable
            officer, says of the campaign: "The campaign as a whole will
                remain a most instructive example of the methods of warfare which may be said to be
                the natural outcome of modern improvement in weapons, and in means of transportation
                and communication when used in a sparsely settled and very impracticable
                country."
          General Grant, popularly regarded as the greatest general of the war, says in his
            Memoirs: "The campaign to Atlanta was managed with the most consummate skill, the enemy being flanked out of one position after
                another all the way there. It is true this was not accomplished without a good deal of fighting, rising to the dignity of very important
                  battles—neither were single positions gained in a day."
          
          Still stronger are these words: "The campaign had lasted about
                four months and was one of the most memorable in history. There
                was but little if anything in the whole campaign, now that it is over, to criticize
                at all, and nothing to criticize severely. It was creditable alike to the general
                who commanded and the army which had executed it."
          Again General Grant said that General Sherman in this campaign had "accomplished the
            most gigantic undertaking given to any general during the war."
          President Lincoln upon receiving Sherman's dispatch, "Atlanta is ours and fairly won,"
            immediately sent the following letter, 
              
                
                  
                     dated at the
                        
							
								Executive Mansion, Washington, D. C.,September
                        3, 1864:
                  The national thanks are rendered by the President to Major General W. T.
                    Sherman and the gallant officers and soldiers of his command before Atlanta, for
                    distinguished ability and perseverance displayed in the campaign in Georgia,
                    which, under Divine favor, has resulted in the capture of Atlanta. The marches, battles, sieges, and other military operations, that have
                      signalized the campaign, must render it famous in the annals of war, and have
                      entitled those who have participated therein to the applause and thanks of the
                      Nation.
                
              
            
          And thus closed the Atlanta Campaign, a campaign that stands unsurpassed in the annals
            of history, and a campaign which stamped William Tecumseh Sherman as the foremost
            General of the age.
        
        
        
           CHAPTER XXVI.  REST IN CAMP—AFTER HOOD.
          In Camp Near Atlanta—Three Weeks of Daily Routine Duties—A Bold Movement by
            Hood—Sherman's Army In Pursuit—The Eighty-sixth Again on March—Smyrna
            Camp Ground—Pine Mountain—The Signals Between Sherman and Corse—The
            Fight at Allatoona Pass—Kenesaw Mountain—Cartersville and
            Kingston—Calhoun—Rome—Resaca—Snake Creek Gap—Chattooga
            Valley—Fresh Pork and Sweet Potatoes—Summerville—Gaylesville,
            Alabama—The Fourth Corps Bids a Silent Farewell to General Sherman—Sherman's
            Letter to the Eighty-sixth.
          Going into camp at Atlanta on the 8th of September, the soldiers expected to rest and
            recuperate the reserve forces of their individual systems, which they imagined must be
            almost used up after that which they had endured for the last four months, and that,
            too, after such a winter of hardships as they had experienced in East Tennessee. They
            expected to rest before being called upon to take part in another campaign, but they
            really found so much to do, there was very little time to rest. There was work to be
            done on every hand and every day of camp-life at Atlanta.
          On the 9th the camp of the Eighty-sixth was laid off in regular order. Buildings were
            torn down and the lumber used in constructing new quarters. In many instances the men
            went the distance of one and two miles to find an unoccupied house, which was razed to
            the ground and the lumber carried to camp on their backs. This was as hard as marching,
            if not so dangerous as fighting in battles and skirmishing. After the quarters were
            constructed, the camp had to policed from one end to the other, swept clean of leaves
            and other trash, properly drained, and sinks dug. Then came picket, camp-guard and
            fatigue, and an occasional extra general cleaning up for inspection. Next came
            drill—company  and battalion—dress parade and
            grand review,—all of which kept the soldier busy. It will thus be seen that there
            was not much time for rest and recuperation.
          The supply of rations were not the most bounteous. It is true they were not so scant as
            they were when beleaguered in Chattanooga, or while playing "freeze out" with Longstreet
            in East Tennessee during the winter of '63 and '64, but they were necessarily cut short.
            Still the men had enough to sustain life and add to their vigor. The allowance issued
            was rated as from one-half to four-fifths rations of the articles received, though but
            one-fourth of the articles included in a soldier's ration were issued. Occasionally the
            men would receive a few onions or some dried fruit from the Sanitary Commission.
          On the 10th fixing up camp was continued. Letters were written home to those who had
            been neglected during the extremely busy fighting season. On Sunday, the 11th, the
            regiment was inspected by companies, by the company officers. It also furnished on this
            day a heavy detail for picket. On the 12th a large detail was made for fatigue duty, to
            cut and clear away the brush in front and rear of the officers' tents. On the evening of
            the 14th orders were received to prepare for general inspection on the following day,
            but a little later it was changed to be ready at 6 a. m. the next day for foraging.
          The regiment was up betimes. Colonel Dick reported with the regiment in ranks at
            brigade headquarters at 6 a. m. Leaving headquarters promptly it marched out a little
            north of east at a very rapid pace some eight or nine miles and was halted to gather the
            forage. One company was placed on picket while the other companies loaded the forage
            into the wagons. The forage consisted almost exclusively of hay, corn-fodder, and corn
            for the mules and horses. While on this expedition William Elder, of Company H, and
            Thomas Shay, of Company B, ran the picket lines in search of something for themselves.
            Elder was picking beans, and Shay, spying a sheep, shot at it. Instead of the sheep the
            ball struck Shay who was beyond. He received a severe wound  on the fleshy part of the inside of the thigh. He was carried to a wagon and thereby
            managed to get a ride to camp. Shay was a good soldier and was mustered out with the
            regiment. Captain Carson P. Rodman, of Company H, received on this day his resignation
            accepted, it having been sent in some time before, and bade farewell to the regiment on
            the 18th.
          On the 16th the fatigue duty on the camp-ground was continued, and before noon received
            an order to prepare for general inspection at 4 o'clock p. m. Lieutenant Reid, the
            brigade inspector, inspected the regiment by companies at that hour. On the 18th the
            companies were inspected by the company officers. On the 19th, besides the regular
            picket, fatigue, and other duties the regular company and battalion drills were added.
            In the evening Rev. Mr. Delamater, the Chaplain of the Seventy-second Indiana, preached
            to the regiment. From this time on while the regiment remained in camp here when rain or
            other duties did not prevent, it had daily company and battalion drills, and quite
            frequently dress parade thrown in as an extra. On the 21st, Captain L. V. Ream, of
            Company G, who was severely wounded at Mud creek, between Kenesaw and Lost mountain, on
            the 18th of June, returned to the regiment.
          There was a world of rumors—"grapevine telegrams"—going the rounds relative
            to the movement of troops. Newton's Second division, of the Fourth corps, had already
            gone back to Chattanooga for some purpose unknown. On the morning of the 27th orders
            were received for grand review at 12 o'clock noon. Major General D. S. Stanley, the
            corps commander, and Major General George H. Thomas were present, but the latter took no
            part in the reviewing exercises. The review was over a little before sun-down. After the
            regiment returned it drew rations of hard tack, sugar, coffee, beans, salt, vinegar,
            soap and candles. On the 28th, 29th and 30th the daily programme was repeated. It was on
            the 30th that Lieutenant John R. Moore, of Company E, resigned, because of wounds
            received on the 27th of June. On the night of the 30th of September, a terrific rain
            storm occurred,  so that on October 1 there was no drill.
            Not to be idle large squads repaired to the woods to gather grapes and came back loaded
            with muscadines, "the grapes of promise," and the ordinary fall grape found in the
            woods. Rumors were running like wild-fire around the circle of the camps in regard to
            the movements of Hood, but the men could learn but little at this juncture of the actual
            status. There was an uneasy, restless feeling exhibited among the men as is usually
            found when a general movement is threatened. When troops know just what they may expect
            there is more quiet and steadiness, but uncertainty makes them restless and impatient to
            know what is to come. Now, therefore, there was a constant hum and buzz of rumors and
            reports of coming movements. Many of them were wild and exaggerated it is true, and some
            again marvelously close to that which shortly took place in regard to the movements of
            General Sherman's army, showing that there were some clear heads and deep thinkers in
            the rank and file of the army. On October 2 there was no drill, but a strong detail for
            picket as usual. The regiment drew three days' rations of hard tack, and five of sugar,
            coffee and salt, one of bacon and some hominy. General Wood received orders in the
            evening to march the following morning at daylight. He was directed to take the lead
            followed by the First division, artillery, ammunition trains, headquarter trains, ten
            ambulances to each division and regimental wagons in the order named. He was to march
            through Atlanta and out Marietta street. That night there was a heavy fall of rain,
            making the road slippery.
          On the morning of the 3d of October the bugles of Wood's division awoke the echoes at
            the early hour of 1 o'clock. The men knew this meant something of a decided character.
            They expected some lively times, some fighting or foot-racing, and very probably ample
            portions of both. Everything was made ready for marching in good time. The pickets came
            in and breakfasted, and at daylight the regiment broke camp and marched back through
            Atlanta, thence along the wagon road by the railroad to the Chattahoochee river at
            Bolton, and crossed the river near the railroad  bridge.
            The march was continued at a telling pace over bad roads until near sun-down, when the
            command bivouacked near Smyrna camp ground where the regiment had spent the evening of
            the 4th of July in its advance upon the enemy after he had evacuated Kenesaw mountain.
            Again it rained just after the troops had gone into bivouac.
          The rank and file of the army had by this time learned the true situation of affairs.
            Hood with his army was in the rear and threatening a great deal of trouble. It was,
            therefore, a matter of vital importance to the Union army that Hood's forces be kept off
            the railroad and not be allowed time to destroy too much of it. Jeff Davis and Hood had
            made their boasts and promised the Southern people that General Sherman would be forced
            to retreat or his army would starve, and this was the move made to accomplish their
            object.
          After a night of rain reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock on the morning of the 4th of
            October. Wood's division, however, did not march immediately. About 11 o'clock the
            "general call" was sounded and at 12, noon, it marched out on the road to Marietta. The
            march was conducted at a rapid pace for such bad roads, and Marietta was reached about 3
            o'clock p. m. The march was continued, taking the road leading over the western base of
            Kenesaw mountain to Gilgal church, but the command bivouacked before crossing the base
            of the mountain. Here it was again around the Gibraltar which the enemy had been forced
            to give up in July. Kenesaw mountain will live long in history for the very many
            stubborn contests which took place there, and for the many brave men who sacrificed life
            for the cause they believed to be right. General Stanley had been ordered to make a
            feint on Pine mountain.
          On the 5th reveille was sounded about daylight and the command was at once astir. Hard
            tack had been issued to the command in the night, which was received in the morning.
            This day is a memorable one of this campaign and in fact, of the war. This was a great
            war, the Atlanta campaign one of the greatest campaigns of the war, and this  was one among the great days of this campaign. It was not
            strictly the campaign to Atlanta, but so intimately connected with it, it may almost be
            so considered. It was on this day that the assault was made upon the Federals under
            General Corse and Colonel Tourtellotte at Allatoona by the rebel forces under General
            French. It was a desperate and bloody battle for the numbers engaged, and fought with
            the most resolute courage by the troops on both sides. It was not a single dashing
            charge, bravely repulsed, but charge after charge, stubbornly fighting over every foot
            of ground, driven back and yet again returning to the battle as if with renewed hope and
            courage.
          The signal dispatches that passed from and to Kenesaw mountain were as follows: Sherman
            asked if Corse had reached there. At 10:35 a. m. the reply came, "We hold out. Corse is
            here." At 4 p. m. Allatoona was again called and at 4:15 the reply came, "We still hold
            out. General Corse is wounded. Where is General Sherman?" The dispatch went back to
            Allatoona, "Near you. Tell Allatoona hold on. General Sherman says he is working hard
            for you." General Sherman communicated with General Elliott, commanding the cavalry, as
            follows: "I have heard from Allatoona. All right. Corse is there, but wounded. You need
            not send all of Garrard's cavalry, but send a squadron. Let them make a circuit and they
            will find nothing there." On the next day, October 6, Allatoona was asked: "How is
            Corse? What news?" Back came this spirited reply signed by General Corse: "I am short a
            cheek bone and one ear, but am able to whip all hell yet. My losses are very heavy. A
            force moving from Stilesboro on Kingston gives me some anxiety. Tell me where Sherman
            is." Back went the reply: "Saw your battle. Am here all right. Have sent you assistance.
            Am sorry you are hurt. General is mindful of you."
          There is nothing in these signal dispatches to suggest a Sunday School song unless it
            was Corse's dispatch to Sherman. The story that P. P. Bliss wrote the sacred song, "Hold
            the Fort for I Am Coming," founded on Sherman's 
            dispatches to Corse, is about as mythical as "Sheridan's Ride" by Buchanan Read. Sherman
            says he reached the top of Kenesaw mountain about "8 o'clock on the morning of the 5th
            of October—a beautiful day—and had a superb view of the vast panorama to the
            north and west," and from this point witnessed "the battle and could hear the faint
            reverberations of cannon." That the day and the contest at Allatoona was a critical one
            for Sherman and his army few can doubt.
          The Eighty-sixth had a representative in the Allatoona fight. On the 3d of May B. F.
            Snyder, of Company K, had been detailed to go to Bridgeport in charge of the baggage
            belonging to the regiment, to store it and remain with it until further orders. He
            remained there until October 1 when he was ordered to the front with the baggage. The
            train on which he traveled made a perilous trip, but finally reached Allatoona. General
            Corse reached there the next morning from Rome with a small brigade. The Confederates
            ate their breakfast on the railroad south of the Pass, and began business at once. They
            captured a stockade with a company of an Illinois regiment. Sergeant Snyder relates the
            following incidents in connection with the capture of the stockade: "One of the soldiers in the stockade did not want to surrender. Prison had no
                charms for him, so when the company marched out he dropped flat on his face and
                groaned loudly, One of the Johnnies looked back and saw him and said: 'Get up, Yank,
                get right up, old fellow?' Mr. Yank made no reply, but kept to work groaning. Going
                up to him, the rebel said, 'What's the matter?' 'Small pox,' was the reply 'Oh,
                Lordy,' said the rebel, 'I don't want nothin' to do with you,' and he ran out of the
                stockade as fast as he could, leaving the cute Yankee to walk over to our lines
                after the enemy had passed on.
              "The losses in the action at Altoona Pass was very heavy. The Thirty-ninth Iowa
                lost almost all of their officers. They were stationed in the outer works, and stood
                to their post when it seemed as if every man must have been positive of  death before the fight would be over. It was hand to
                hand a number of times. A rebel seized the colors from the color-bearer, but he
                stuck to them and wouldn't let go; then the rebel pinned him to the ground with his
                bayonet and took him prisoner. The bayonet did not pass through the flesh, but went
                through his clothing. That night the color-bearer escaped and came to our lines
                where I was and told me about it. The rebels tried to burn a lot of stores, said to
                be one million rations, but the attempt of a rebel lieutenant, as he stole up with a
                torch, was discovered by a colored soldier and he was promptly killed."
            
          The Army of the Cumberland on this campaign after Hood was commanded by Major General
            D. S. Stanley, as General Thomas had been sent back to Nashville to prepare for Hood's
            coming should he attempt to invade Tennessee, as it was believed he intended to do. The
            Twentieth corps was left at Atlanta. The Second division, Wagner's, of the Fourth corps,
            was at Chattanooga, therefore, there was only the Fourteenth corps and the two divisions
            of the Fourth corps here of the old Army of the Cumberland. General Wood was in command
            of the Fourth corps. The Third division resumed its march about 7:30 on the morning of
            the 5th of October. The route was the same as on the preceding day after leaving
            Marietta, being over the road from that place to Gilgal church and crossing the western
            base of Kenesaw mountain. The command must have been crossing the base of the mountain
            by the time Sherman reached the top. The march was made in a very slow and hesitating
            manner as though the head of the column was feeling its way very carefully and expecting
            to run against the enemy at any moment. General Sherman says in his "Memoirs:" "From
            Kenesaw I ordered the Twenth-third corps, General Cox, to march due west on the Burnt
            Hickory, and to burn houses or piles of brush as it progressed, to indicate the head of
            the column, hoping to interpose this corps between Hood's main army at Dallas and the
            detachment then assaulting Allatoona. The rest of the army was directed straight for
            Allatoona, northwest, distant eighteen miles."  General
            Sherman is certainly in error in this statement. As before stated when General Sherman
            reached the top of Kenesaw mountain, Wood's division of the Fourth corps was marching
            across its western base enroute along the road to Gilgal church, nearly due west.
            General Cox has shown conclusively that the reconnoissance here referred to by General
            Sherman was not made till later. This is confirmed by Special Field Order, No. 85,
            issued by General Sherman on the 6th, dated at Kenesaw mountain, as follows: 
              I. Major General Stanley, Army of the Cumberland, will occupy a strong defensive
                position across tho Marietta and Burnt Hickory, and Marietta and Dallas roads, his
                right near Pine Hill, and left behind Nose's [Noyes'] creek.
              II. Major General Howard, Army of the Tennessee, will join on the left of
                Stanley, and make a line covering the Powder Spring road; and the cavalry on the
                flank, General Kilpatrick will prevent any enemy from reaching the railroad below
                Marietta.
              III. Brigadier General Cox, Army of the Ohio, will move out on the Burnt Hickory
                road, via Pine Hill, and Mount Olivet Church, west, until he
                strikes the road by which the enemy have moved on Allatoona. He will have his column
                ready for a fight, but not deployed. He will park his wagons near Kenesaw.
              IV. General Elliott will send cavalry to-day to Big Shanty,
                Ackworth, and Allatoona, and bring back official reports.
            
          On the march, after crossing the base of the mountain, the command came into ground
            with which the men were familiar. It passed through several lines of works where in June
            and July the enemy had been met in battle. Now the tables were turned and he was the
            aggressor. Among the many well remembered places of those days was the one at Mud creek,
            where the enemy made a most determined resistance on the 18th of June, and where the
            regiment lost a number of wounded, among them were Captain L. V. Ream, of Company G, and
            Thomas Decker, of Company I, by the same shell. The march was continued at a slow pace
            until about 4:30 p. m., when the command bivouacked and was ordered to construct a line
            of works which was done, but not in that complete manner in which it was done during the
            campaign when advancing upon Kenesaw mountain.
          The command remained here at this bivouac until the 
            afternoon of the 8th. While remaining here there was no particular duty to perform
            except picket duty and keep a sharp watch for the enemy. The reconnoissance in force
            made by the Twenty-third corps, above referred to, was made on the 7th of October
            instead of the 5th, as Sherman says, or the 6th as General J. D. Cox says, as on the 7th
            at 5:30 p. m. General Cox reported to General Sherman: "The reconnoissance reports no
            rebels north of New Hope Church, and the main body went from there this morning."
            General Sherman, in response to Cox, said: "Call in your detachments, and be prepared
            for a march." The two divisions of the Fourth corps moved, on the 8th, eastward over
            near the railroad just south of Ackworth, and no doubt the move was determined by
            information gained by the reconnoitering column of the previous day, reaching the plate
            of bivouac a little after sun-down, having marched six or seven miles. At this point the
            command remained until the afternoon of the 10th. About 3 o'clock on that day the
            "general call" was sounded, and it filed out upon the road, and passing through Ackworth
            took the wagon road for Allatoona. The march was conducted at a lively pace and reached
            the latter place about dark. At this point the command took the railroad as its line of
            march and pressed steadily on, crossed the Etowah river and marched about one mile and
            bivouacked, having covered about ten or twelve miles.
          On the 11th reveille was sounded early. The command breakfasted and marched out at
            daylight. The Eighty-sixth was in advance of the corps. Reports said the enemy was in
            the neighborhood of Rome. The command passed through Cartersville in the early morning
            and pressed on toward Kingston. Major Generals Sherman and Stanley accompanied the
            column after it left Cartersville during a part of the forenoon's march. When near
            Kingston the corps was halted for dinner and rested for one hour. Resuming the march the
            command passed through the town and covering about two miles beyond, bivouacked for the
            night in a woods thickly grown up with underbrush.
          Here on the evening of the 11th the Eighty-sixth 
            received a mail from the North—from home—and it was one of the most gladsome
            mails ever received by the regiment. The mail brought "full returns" from the draft
            which made the hearts of many, if not all, of the veterans greatly to rejoice; for it
            was almost a universal verdict that "they got the right ones every
              time." Many were the congratulations, handshaking and shouting words of joyful
            rejoicing at the final outcome of the draft on the stay-at-homes. This news put, at
            least, the Eighty-sixth in the height of good humor and fine spirits, and it is presumed
            it had much the same effect on all veterans then in the field doing active service.
          On the following morning, the 12th, the weather was cool and foggy and as the brigade
            was in the rear of the corps and the regiment in the rear of the brigade, it did not
            leave camp on the march until about 8 o'clock. When first upon the road the speed was
            slow and the column frequently halted. The progress made until noon, when the command
            was halted for dinner, was not great. In the afternoon the march was resumed in the same
            slow manner until about dark, when the column started forward with much more speed than
            at any time during the day. The roads were muddy from the recent heavy rains, there
            being many puddles and deep mud holes, but the Eighty-sixth went helter skelter,
            splashing ahead like so many loose horses or cattle, the only object being to get on.
            Cannonading could be heard in the direction in which the troops were marching, but some
            distance away. Many of the boys gave out, completely exhausted, by the very hard
            marching over the execrable roads. This furious, plunging march was kept up until nearly
            11 o'clock at night when the command bivouacked not far from Rome. This was a march
            laborious in the extreme. The cannonading was a fight between Garrard's and the enemy's
            cavalry left to cover Hood's route. The fight took place a few miles down the Coosa
            river from Rome. Sherman hoped to catch Hood, but he had too much the start. It was now
            evident that he did not want to fight Sherman's veteran army but was making a big
            raid.
          The principal part of General Sherman's forces in pursuit  of Hood were now congregated near Rome, the point of union of the Oostanaula and
            Etowah rivers to form the Coosa river. His forces lying in between the two former
            streams. Just at this time Sherman did not know where Hood was. Therefore, on the
            morning of the 13th he sent forces to reconnoiter down each bank of the Coosa river,
            while other troops of the command remained quietly in bivouac of the previous night,
            drawing rations and resting, awaiting orders. During early part of the afternoon General
            Sherman received information that Hood with his army had appeared before Resaca and
            demanded its surrender the previous day.
          At 3 p. m. the "general call" was sounded for Wood's division and at 3:30 it marched
            out in a southeasterly direction, the division having the advance of the corps. It was
            doubtless now headed for Calhoun. It was another scrambling, nimble-footed march that
            admitted of no delays and few halts. The march was continued until 9 o'clock p. m., and
            bivouacked. This bivouac must have been on Dry creek, and almost west of Adairsville.
            The following morning, the 14th, the bugles sounded reveille for the division at 4
            o'clock, and it marched out for Calhoun at day-break. A mile from town it crossed the
            Oothcalago creek and reached the town about 9 o'clock a. m., and was once again on
            familiar ground. On to Resaca was the word. The eight or nine miles the men had covered
            was as nothing and it was only six more to Resaca. This was soon reeled off and the
            latter place was reached before noon, pressed on two miles toward Tilton and halted for
            dinner. After waiting sometime the column proceeded about one mile, and bivouacked for
            the night to the west and south of Tilton, and near Cove City P. O., well up on the
            upper course of Camp creek, on the road leading up the creek through a break in the
            Chattoogata mountains, and thence over Buzzard Roost or Mill creek mountains into the
            defile known as Snake Creek Gap.
          On the following morning, the 15th, the bugles of Beatty's brigade sounded the "general
            call" about 8 o'clock and the brigade marched out about 9 a. m. Now, the pace was
            moderate and the column halted frequently. The command 
            abandoned the road soon after starting upon the march and proceeded across the country,
            a difficult and slow way of marching, even in an open and level country. Light
            skirmishing could be heard on the left front, and this was, no doubt, one cause of the
            cautious advance and slow progress. Somewhere about 10:30 a. m. the column, which had
            been headed a little west of north, was turned due west to cross the mountains. It had
            been gradually approaching the mountains before, but now it went straight at them, or
            the rugged hills which intervened. About noon the Third brigade of Wood's divisions was
            ordered to halt and intrench while the other two brigades and the First division went
            forward to reconnoiter as a matter of caution. The intrenching was promptly done, and
            having waited the required length of time the Third brigade abandoned its works and
            proceeded on the march, and it proved to be one of extremest toil. The hills became
            higher and more difficult to climb. Finally it crossed the Chattooga mountains with much
            labor, and the command came into a broken valley with a little higher range of mountains
            confronting it. After toiling up and over the Chattooga mountains the men did not wish
            for more mountain climbing, but here were the Buzzard Roost or Mill creek mountains, and
            they had to be climbed. In this narrow valley, lying between these two ranges, night and
            darkness came on, but the command kept moving. Soon the men beheld far on top of the
            dark mountain a light like a shining star just above the edge of a vanishing storm cloud
            of darkest hue, and toward that light the men directed their course. It was a beacon
            light placed there by some friendly hand to guide them over the mountain. It did not
            seem so far away at first, but the men toiled on, stumbling over the rough, rocky
            mountain side, yet the light did not seem much nearer. It shone with the same
            brightness, but that was all. Up and up they went, winding back and forth to gain
            advantage of the best ground upon which to advance. No doubt it seemed farther up that
            mountain, rougher, more rocky on account of the night and darkness, than it otherwise
            would have done, but it did seem long to complete the day's march. At length  the men filed by the light they had watched so long. It
            proved to be a huge fire built to guide the command to the top of the mountain over the
            best and most accessible route. The enemy had blockaded the defile and held it by a
            strong force, rendering it hazardous, if not impossible, to force the passage. General
            Sherman had sent General Stanley around by Tilton, then across the country and the
            mountains, the latter of which it was hoped he would be able to cross in time to
            intercept and capture the forces guarding the defile. By crossing the mountains to the
            north of the blockade the rear guard left to guard the gap and delay Sherman's advance
            would be hemmed in. Horn mountain on the west, and Buzzard Roost mountain on the east,
            would prevent his escaping upon either flank, while Stanley in his front, would prevent
            his escape northward, and Howard on the south, would catch him if he attempted to return
            by the way he came into the gap. In short, if Stanley crossed in time there would be no
            escape unless he could cut his way out either through the Fourth or Fifteenth corps,
            which was not probable. But here as elsewhere for Hood, "discretion was the better part
            of valor," and the enemy had taken his flight in good time and escaped. General Howard's
            forces had in turn taken possession of the defile and cleared the blockade sufficiently
            to get through, and had pressed on to Villanow on the evening of the 15th.
          Wood's division proceeded down the rugged mountain side into the defile or gap and
            bivouacked on the banks of a gurgling mountain stream, a branch of Mill creek, running
            northward out of the defile. Here after a hasty night meal, toil-worn and weary, as
            would be expected after such a march, the men soon sank to rest and sleep on the lap of
            mother earth, lulled by the babbling of the little mountain stream. The command was
            aroused by the bugles before daylight the next morning, and it was expected to push
            rapidly on after the retreating enemy. But there were a number of things that delayed
            the marching. The road had been badly blockaded, and this delayed the progress of the
            troops that were in the advance. Finding that the command would  not march immediately, the commissary department issued rations. These
            things delayed Wood's division until about 10 o'clock, when it slowly marched northward
            out of the gap. When clear of Horn mountain on the north, the column turned west into
            the valley between Buzzard Roost and Horn mountain on the east, and Taylor's Ridge on
            the west, following Hood in his retreat to Villanow and LaFayette. There had been some
            severe skirmishing and the enemy had been forced to leave a number of his wounded
            behind.
          Wood's division bivouacked on the evening of the 16th about 4:30 o'clock in an open
            field, and at once sent out pickets. At this bivouac communications were established
            with Chattanooga, and there was some talk that furloughed men would be allowed to go
            home from here, but from some cause they were not permitted to go, although the field
            hospital and disabled animals were sent back to Chattanooga. The command remained here
            in the neighborhood of Villanow during the 17th, some forces being sent out to
            reconnoiter the enemy and determine his exact location. It was learned that he had gone
            south. On the morning of the 18th reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock, and the Third
            brigade marched out about 8 o'clock. The column's progress was slow until about 12
            o'clock, when it crossed Taylor's Ridge into the Chattooga valley. After crossing the
            ridge the pace was accelerated and the command went forward with speed until about 2
            o'clock p. m., when it was halted and permitted to get dinner. The command remained here
            until 4 o'clock, giving the men a good rest and permitting the column to close up after
            crossing the mountain.
          The army was now in the fertile valley of the Chattooga that had an abundance of almost
            all kinds of forage, and the boys supplied themselves plenteously with fresh pork,
            mutton and sweet potatoes. The cracking of the guns of the foragers made it sound like
            light skirmishing from 4 o'clock until dark. It was from this valley that General
            Sherman dispatched Secretary Stanton: "Convey to Jeff Davis my personal and official
            thanks, for abolishing cotton and substituting corn and sweet potatoes in the South.
            These facilitate  our military plans much, for food and
            forage are abundant."
          The column started forward at 4 p. m., and at a lively pace which was well maintained
            until 9 o'clock at night, when the Eighty-sixth bivouacked in a corn field, and there
            was scarcely a mess in the regiment but what had fresh meat, either pork or mutton, for
            supper. It was now, too, in a region that produced the finest of sweet potatoes, and all
            were supplied with these. All being thus well supplied with foraged articles worked to
            to the advantage of the commissary department and relieved it to a considerable extent.
            The Chattooga or Broomtown Valley lies between Taylor's Ridge on the east, and Pigeon
            mountain on the west, and is drained to the southward by the Chattooga river and its
            tributaries, the Chattooga uniting with Little river before emptying into the Coosa. The
            valley does not entend due north and south, as the southern end of Taylor's ridge bears
            off to the west. Down the east side—at the foot of Taylor's ridge—of this
            valley the command was now marching.
          On the 19th the command remained at the bivouac until 1:30 p. m. at which time it
            continued its march down the valley at a good rate of speed, crossed the Chattooga river
            and arrived at the town of Summerville about 4:30 o'clock. Summerville was then the
            county seat of Chattooga county, Georgia, but an insignificant place. Wood's division
            passed beyond the town about one mile and bivouacked—the Eighty-sixth in an open
            field. On the following morning reveille was sounded at 4:30 o'clock, but the column did
            not set forward on the march until about 8 o'clock. The roads were excellent and good
            time was made, the men reeling off the miles in a very spirited manner. Foraging had
            been done the last few days in such a free handed, vigorous manner, that to-day strict
            orders were promulgated against all foraging by individuals on their own responsibility,
            and the men were kept closely in ranks, no straggling being permitted. A halt was made
            at noon for dinner after which the tramp was resumed at quick time. Not long after
            starting out in the afternoon the command passed over into Alabama, its  course being still down the valley of the Chattooga river.
            Reaching the neighborhood of Gaylesville, Cherokee county, Alabama, the command
            bivouacked about 5 o'clock in the evening in a large farm opening, having covered on the
            day's march sixteen or eighteen miles.
          General Sherman had been in pursuit of Hood since October 3, at which time he left
            Atlanta to protect his line of communications. Acting on the defensive, his movements
            necessarily depended upon those of his adversary which often caused him to labor at a
            great disadvantage, and quite as often forced the troops under him to undergo great
            hardships of marching. General Sherman had, however, while acting on the defensive in a
            manner which seemed undecided, now about completed his plans, begun long before, to act
            on the offensive on a grand scale in a mighty and masterful manner which would
            dumb-found the South, and with the skillful assistance of the veteran, General Thomas,
            bring the war to a close.
          While the troops remained here they subsisted principally on foraged articles secured
            from the surrounding country. In order to economize with rations, regular details were
            made for foraging. Usually two men were detailed from each company to forage for the
            regiment, and two to forage for the company, and as many more to forage on their own
            responsibility as cared to undertake it. In this way a plentiful supply of provender was
            kept on hand while in camp at Gaylesville. On the 21st shoes were issued to the
            Eighty-sixth and to the entire command. On the 22d details for the regiment and company
            were sent out to collect forage, returning with sweet potatoes and turnips. On the 23d a
            detail was made from the Eighty-sixth to go with a train to procure forage for the mules
            and horses. The detail made a long march, going northward to near the southern extremity
            of Lookout Mountain where General McCook crossed with his corps previous to the battle
            of Chickamauga. Forage was not very plentiful here and the detail returned with no very
            abundant supply, after marching about thirty miles on the round trip, not reaching camp
            until about  8 o'clock at night. On the 24th the camp of
            the Eighty-sixth was laid off in regular order as though it might remain here the rest
            of the fall, and the Nineteenth Ohio was detailed to guard a supply train to Rome.
            Sherman was getting ready to bid the Fourth corps good-bye.
          On the 25th some of the troops were paraded out for a sham battle. It looked finely
            enough when one knew it was only for show, but really it had very little the appearance
            of an actual battle. It might have been considered a nice display and exciting to those
            who had never seen a real red-handed battle. It does not tingle the nerves, or send the
            blood back upon the heart as if to overwhelm it, like the tumultuous burst of a genuine
            and momentous battle when one is standing awaiting orders to be hurled right into the
            thickest and swiftest of its deadly current at any moment. The sham can not be made as
            the real in anything, and here it probably appeared the farthest removed from it. It was
            simply a battle without injury or death—without the horrors of the reality.
          On the 26th there was a detail from the Eighty-sixth for forage duty as usual. The
            general bivouac of the Fourth corps was comparatively quiet, and there was no particular
            indication of an immediate move. General Sherman was riding round viewing the camps and
            troops in a quiet, unostentatious way. It was his "good-bye" to the Fourth corps
            although the men knew it not. It was the last time many of the men ever saw the Grand
            Old Soldier. He then had everything in readiness to leave and march back to Atlanta, and
            with a little more hasty preparation, start on his wonderful, matchless March to the Sea
            that was to startle the world. The divisions of the Fourth corps were once more united
            at Gaylesville, but were now about to separate from its companion corps, the Fourteenth
            and Twentieth, which were to accompany General Sherman on his march.
          Many of the Eighty-sixth regretted that the Fourth corps was not permitted to accompany
            General Sherman on his march to the sea, and on January 6, 1886, J. A. Barnes  wrote the General in which he expressed this regret. In
            reply General Sherman said: "Of course I hated to send the
                Fourth corps back from Kingston, but the general plan contemplated General Thomas at
                Nashville and me marching to Savannah, Columbia, Raleigh, and Richmond, with Hood at
                liberty to attack either. I therefore had to provide Thomas with enough men to fight
                Hood. All he asked for in addition to the troops he had was the Fourth corps. After
                sending that corps to make assurance doubly sure, I also sent the Twenty-third
                corps—Schofield—and you know the result. The battle of Franklin and
                Nashville were as important to the general cause as the march to the sea. So you may
                safely assume that you performed a full share in the final campaign which ended the
                war."
          These words of the great General are to be taken and applied in the sense in which they
            are undoubtedly meant. It is true he is addressing an individual, but as he could know
            nothing of that individual's service in the ranks, he evidently referred to the command
            in and with which he served as performing "a full share in the final campaign which
            ended the war." The General evidently then meant his commendation to apply first to the
            army, to the corps, division and brigade, as he speaks of Franklin and Nashville, but as
            he was informed of the writer's regiment, and as he could know from the records quite
            accurately of the honorable service of the regiment as an integral part of the organized
            command, the statement is justified that these words, "performed a full share in the
            final campaign which ended the war," apply directly to the service of the Eighty-sixth,
            and through the regimental organization to the individual soldiers who composed it. It
            is a commendation of which any army, corps, division, brigade or regiment should be
            proud, and the Fourth corps, Wood's division, Third brigade and Eighty-sixth Indiana did
            their "full share" and justly earned the commendation.
          The month of October, 1864, was an eventful one to the Fourth corps, and with it the
            Eighty-sixth, which took part in all the duties that fell to the lot of the corps in
            general, and not only took part, but performed faithfully and well all duties assigned
            it. In marching back over the rugged mountainous country in the twelve or thirteen days
            of 463  actual marching, that required four months of
            battle to acquire, was no easy task. Besides the marching, much of, which was at night,
            and consequently very laborious, it will be noted that the regiment performed many other
            duties, such as building intrenchments and making itself ready to repel an attack.
            Hood's campaign had been well planned and fairly well, if not brilliantly, executed, and
            against almost any other commander than General Sherman, might have been successful. But
            with his genius to direct his matchless legions, victory was snatched from the reviving
            enthusiasm of the Southerners, and turned to the advantage of the cause which he
            represented, that of the country and the Nation; and left Hood so bewildered that it was
            some weeks before he sufficiently recovered to advance upon Thomas' position and
            forces.
        
        
           CHAPTER XXVII.  THE TABLES TURNED.
          Hood Marching North—A Race for the Lead—Wood's Division Gets There
            First—Elk River and "The Irishman's Pontoons"—Hood After Schofield and
            Thomas—Pulaski—Columbia—Duck River—Spring Hill, or Running the
            Gauntlet—The Battle of Franklin—Fort Granger—Thomas' Army Organization
            and Strength.
          As was shown in the preceding chapter the Union army was in pursuit of General Hood and
            his army, ostensibly chasing him from the Western and Atlantic railroad, the line of its
            communications, and of the transportation of its supplies, but it was also acting as a
            column of observation to discover Hood's intentions and plan of campaign. But he was now
            going farther north and somebody must hurry up and get there ahead of him. Who could do
            it so well as "Wood's Greyhounds"? Soon now for a time, at least, Hood was to be after
            Schofield's and Thomas' commands. The Fourth corps was  to
            be in it from first to last, from early dawn till late at night, of each day's labors.
            In appearance, at least, the tables were completely turned, and the rebel army was to a
            degree paying the Union troops back in their own coin, good hard knocks, for the long,
            long chase they had given them over the hills to Atlanta, at least so thought the elated
            rebels. At any rate it was to be brief, although a memorable campaign—a campaign
            of forced night marches, extremely fatiguing and trying, of wearisome vigils, more
            exhausting and debilitating than the marching. All this was to be varied and interlarded
            with hot, spiteful skirmishing, finished up and rounded out on two occasions, at least,
            by desperately fought battles, such as have seldom been witnessed on this continent.
          At the beginning of the campaign, after crossing the Tennessee river, it was a kind of
            a joyful jubilee, an all promenade affair, for the Confederates. They reasoned that as
            there was only a handful of men in their way, they would soon knock them on the head and
            end the business. But after Franklin it was the last desperate, despairing struggle of
            Hood and his army against what seemed as the hand of fate. It was victory upon their
            part, or Hood's star as a general must set forever—sink in the gloom of repeated
            defeats, and the Confederacy, their hope of empire, must fade away. In short, it was
            victory for, or death to, the Confederacy; and if defeat it would be an ignominious
            failure upon the part of Hood who had taken command with so much confidence.
          As has been seen, towards the last of October Sherman's army,with the exception of the
            Twentieth corps, left to guard Atlanta, was at or near Gaylesville, Alabama, and
            remained there several days watching Hood. General Sherman wanted to be sure of Hood's
            intentions in the campaign he had inaugurated, before he took his final leave of Thomas
            and the forces left to protect Nashville and prevent Hood's invasion of the North. On
            the 26th Sherman was riding round among the camps viewing the troops and completing the
            arrangements for the campaign North as well as those for his great  march to the sea. On the morning of the 27th of October the Fourth corps
            received orders to march. Beatty's brigade, of Wood's division, was to march at 8
            o'clock a. m., but it did not leave camp until a half an hour later. The Eighty-sixth
            had not marched more than a mile when Companies H and K were detailed to guard the
            Second division supply train, and had to wait until about 5 o'clock p. m. before they
            resumed the march. The day's march was made to the northeast toward Chattanooga, and
            over a rough, mountainous country, a tiresome road to travel at the best, and with a
            soldier's load to carry, quite laborious. On the morning of the 28th after a hasty
            breakfast of sweet potatoes, fresh pork and coffee, the march was resumed a little while
            before sunrise. The regiment passed through Alpine at 8 o'clock in the morning. Marching
            at a rapid pace it proceeded on its way almost without a halt until noon, when a stop
            was made for dinner. The halt was made at a splendid spring of water and the men greatly
            enjoyed this dinner, the rest, and drinking the fine water. The command remained here
            about one hour, and then resumed the march at the same rapid pace as before, resting
            only every three or four miles. The march was continued until nearly 8 o'clock before
            the place of bivouac was reached. This was a long day's march and fatigued the men
            greatly. The march was resumed the following morning at the same telling pace. Passing
            through LaFayette, the county seat of Walker county, Georgia, the command took the
            direct road for Chattanooga. It is known as the Chattanooga and Rome road, and leads
            from Chattanooga through LaFayette to Rome, Georgia. In the day's march it crossed the
            now historic West Chickamauga creek at Lee & Gordon's Mills.
          Here along this road from Lee & Gordon's Mills to Rossville lies the famous
            battle-field—the bloody Chickamauga—where Bragg's army massed, found the gap
            in the Union line, divided the Army of the Cumberland and overpowered the extended and
            weakened right wing, and then vainly battered and beat itself to pieces on the bulwark
            that "the Rock of Chickamauga" had erected on Snodgrass Hill. This was  the regiment's first glimpse at the field since the fateful
            days, 18th, 19th and 20th of September, 1863, where ran the good red blood of the Union
            troops as water, and the blood of the Confederates flowed not less profusely. It was an
            awful time when the fiery hosts of Bragg in their most desperate mood ran as to a
            banquet upon the stubborn battalions of Rosecrans, who would not yield. The timber of
            the field showed all too plainly of the terrific nature of the encounter that had taken
            place. The innumerable graves attested the sanguinary character of the
            contest—that it was a battle unto death. The road led almost from one end of the
            battle-field to the other, and thus gave the men an opportunity to see all along the
            line how these two mighty hosts in the agony of desperation, had contended. This
            battle-field is now a National Park, and tablets everywhere mark the blood-stained
            ground to commemorate the valor of each regiment, brigade and division engaged.
          Passing through Rossville the regiment reached its bivouac near 5 o'clock p. m., having
            marched about twenty miles this day. On the following morning, the 30th, the command
            resumed the march about 6 o'clock, going directly to the depot in Chattanooga. Here the
            "hospital reserve" of the Eighty-sixth, and in fact of all the regiments of the
            division, flocked to see "the fellows from the front." The men were soon put aboard the
            cars and rolled over down the river, around the point of Lookout Mountain, on down by
            other lofty peaks, and over deep ravines at the bottom of which ran beautiful mountain
            streams. At Bridgeport the Tennessee river was crossed, thence westward to Stevenson,
            Huntsville and Decatur. Eighteen or twenty miles west of Stevenson the railroad track
            had been torn up, presumably by guerrillas or some band of Forrest's cavalry, and the
            train was delayed for some time. The soldiers took advantage of the delay, and while the
            track was being repaired they built fires, made coffee, fried bacon and ate supper.
            After considerable delay the onward run was resumed.
          An all night's run, including delays, brought the train to the vicinity of Athens,
            Alabama. The command arrived  there a little while after
            daylight, marched through the town southward and halted. Here it breakfasted, received
            mail and drew one day's rations of hard bread, coffee, sugar, and salt. Athens had been
            rather a flourishing Southern town with comparatively good buildings, but it was now
            showing the effects of war. The command remained here until just after noon, when it
            resumed the march, going nearly due north in the direction of Nashville. On the north,
            near town, there were some fairly well improved farms compared with most of the Southern
            country. But away from the town the farms well improved in number grew small, until at
            length the country for miles seemed almost a wilderness of woods. The column marched at
            a rapid rate, seldom halting, and bivouacked about 7 p. m.
          On the morning of the 1st of November the column resumed the march about 5 o'clock and
            soon passed into Tennessee. Having reached Elk river, Beatty's brigade in advance of the
            division, and the Eighty-sixth in advance of the brigade, no bridge was found on which
            to cross. After a moment's contemplation of the stream and the situation, Colonel Dick
            jocosely remarked that he guessed we would have to cross on the "Irishman's pontoons."
            The river flowed in a strong current about waist deep. The men, therefore, soon removed
            their garments and waded the stream. It was speedily done. The water was quite cold and
            ran swiftly, so it was no easy crossing, wading and holding one's gun, cartridge-box and
            haversack up out of the water. But the worst of all was to be in the cold water so long.
            When once across some of the boys set several unoccupied houses on fire by which to warm
            themselves. This crossing was made at a small town called Elkton. But the regiment did
            not tarry long to warm by the fires but marched on at a very rapid pace. The division
            was halted at noon for dinner. Rations were not plentiful and some of the boys did some
            old-time artistic foraging, getting in their work in good time. The march was resumed
            and the head of column reached Pulaski between 3 and 4 o'clock p. m. Beatty's brigade
            passed through the town about a half mile and bivouacked. In the  evening the regiment again drew rations: one day's ration of hard bread, two
            of coffee, three of sugar and salt and one and a half of bacon.
          Wood's division took position here and began fortifying as usual. Work was continued on
            the fortifications as long as it remained. The First division, Kimball's, arrived at
            Pulaski on the 3d. So with fatigue and picket duty the men were kept from rusting away
            in idleness. On the 10th the officers of the Eighty-sixth were paid off, and on the 11th
            the rank and file received eight months' pay, which added greatly to the good spirits of
            the men.
          There was nothing of importance occurred during the first few days' stay at Pulaski,
            but along about the 15th or 16th of the month the drafted men began to come in. This
            caused great rejoicing among the old soldiers. Some of the drafted men seemed to take it
            all right, while others appeared gloomy and unwilling to talk about their great
            misfortune, and if they said anything it was to denounce in unmeasured terms the
            officers of the draft. The "conscripts" were for sometime the butt of the command, but
            they were needed, and a little later some of them did good service, for which they are
            to have due credit.
          Along about the middle the month the rebel cavalry began feeling its way out from
            Florence on the advance and to prepare the way for Hood's infantry. The rebel cavalry
            made demonstrations toward Lawrenceburg and Waynesboro on the 15th, but the Union
            cavalry was alert and delayed the enemy's advance, although not nearly so strong in
            numbers. During the time at Pulaski there were many reports and rumors of the movements,
            both of the rebel and Union forces. About the 18th or 20th "grapevine telegrams" became
            numerous, and one said, "Hood is advancing." In fact, Hood's infantry, Lee's corps, did
            advance about ten miles out from Florence on the 20th, and on the 21st the whole of his
            army, infantry and cavalry, was on the advance toward Pulaski or to flank it, and if
            possible, cut Schofield off from Nashville and Thomas.
          On the 21st of November the Ninth Regiment, Kentucky 
            Volunteers, Colonel George H. Cram, was relieved from duty as the regiment's term of
            service had expired. The Eighty-sixth regretted to see the Ninth go. It was a good
            steady regiment and could be relied upon. Thus Thomas' forces were being weakened daily
            by his old and best regiments going home, while newer and less reliable regiments came
            in to take their place.
          As the days passed the talk of the camps became more and more positive that Hood was
            advancing. About 10:30 on the morning of the 23d came the orders to be ready to march at
            noon. The "general" was sounded by the brigade bugler at 12 o'clock. Tents were struck
            immediately, but the order to set forward was not given; it was delayed presumably to
            allow other troops to march out first. The order was a timely one for the command, but
            it worked harm to some non-combatant camp followers, notably the sutlers. One of these
            not being able to secure transportation for his goods when the time came to move piled
            his surplus and set fire to it. The boys soon discovered the situation and made a dash
            for the goods, and scattered the fire in an instant. Some secured plug tobacco, some
            soap, some one thing and some another.
          Just at sunset the Third brigade filed out upon the road to Columbia in the direction
            of Nashville, and marched ten miles, and bivouacked near Lynnville. This made it quite
            late getting supper, so by the time the men were ready to retire it was about midnight.
            Forrest was fighting hard to get between the command and Columbia on the Mt. Pleasant
            and Columbia road, and the men were called up at 1 o'clock on the morning of the 24th
            and hastened on, allowing them not more than an hour for rest and sleep during the
            night. The march was resumed at 3 o'clock and good time was made, as things were
            becoming critical. During the forenoon the regiment was detailed to guard the wagon
            train. It was quite plain now that it was a retreat and it appeared that there was more
            haste necessary than was shown in the immediate front; that the large amount of United
            States property was believed to be in danger, and it might be difficult  to save it from rebel clutches. But the "army wagon, the
            old army wagon" rolled on propelled by the ever faithful "mool," a southern product that
            with the "nigger" was ever loyal and true.
          Beatty's brigade arrived at Columbia at noon, having covered twenty miles. The men were
            ordered, notwithstanding their long march, to proceed at once to the construction of a
            line of breastworks. They were well on the way to completion in a short time, but before
            they were finished the Eighty-sixth was detailed for picket duty. Another night was to
            be passed in vigils. The regiment was relieved the next day about 10 o'clock by the
            Nineteenth Ohio and at once returned to camp. In the afternoon the men were ordered to
            construct an abatis and prepare to defend this position. Skirmishing was commenced a
            little after noon, but it was light, with some cannonading on the distant right during
            the afternoon. Late in the afternoon the regiment drew rations. Still later the
            Eighty-sixth was moved to the left about three hundred yards. General Schofield, having
            found it necessary to send some of his forces north of Duck river at Columbia, was
            forced to contract his lines, that he might be the better able to hold them against an
            attack. The Fourth corps was to hold the position south of the river, that is Columbia,
            while the Twenty-third corps and the cavalry were to guard the other crossings of the
            river and protect the rear. This change was made on the night of the 25th. On the 26th
            there was constant skirmishing and more or less artillery firing by both the rebel and
            Union batteries. An attack was strongly threatened and was confidently expected, but
            Hood declined the contest, expecting to catch Schofield at a greater disadvantage.
          The Seventy-ninth Indiana was on the skirmish line on this day for the brigade, and had
            one man wounded. It was a dreary, dark and cheerless day, a drizzling rain falling the
            entire time. The surroundings were no less inviting. The command was almost surrounded
            by a greatly superior force, and a deep unfordable river yet to cross, rendered  the situation one of extreme peril. Still the men were not
            greatly worried by these unfavorable conditions. They had been besieged in Chattanooga
            when, to them, affairs looked darker. They had campaigned under Rosecrans, Thomas and
            Sherman too long to fret. Great confidence was felt that General Schofield would find a
            way out before the last gateway would be closed. In fact there was no dismay in the
            ranks. The men were aware of the proximity of the foe as was shown by the little
            straggling that was done and the compactness of the marching column.
          It continued to rain on the night of the 26th. The skirmishing indicated the enemy to
            be aggressive. The orders had been that the division would move that night across the
            river, but just after nightfall it was announced that the troops would remain in
            position, and that the evacuation would not take place till the following night. On the
            27th it continued to rain steadily, and and occasional picket skirmish broke the dull
            monotony of the day. The men remained quietly in their intrenchments until 7 p. m. when
            the division moved out slowly, passed through the town of Columbia, and crossed Duck
            river to the north side on pontoons. The The Third division led, followed by the First
            and Second. General Wood in his report says "the passage of the river was made about two
            miles below the town." The Third brigade marched about a mile and a half from the bridge
            and bivouacked.
          The following morning, the 28th, the men were called at 4 o'clock. The brigade remained
            here until 8 o'clock, when it moved farther up the river, taking a position on the
            extreme left of the corps when facing the enemy. The Eighty-sixth was detailed for
            picket, the sentinels being stationed on the bank of the river. The regiment was not
            relieved until noon of the 29th. Early on this morning Post's Second brigade was sent on
            a reconnoissance up the river to watch the movement of the enemy, as it was reported
            that he was crossing at a place called Davis' ford. As soon as the Eighty-sixth was
            relieved from picket it was ordered to march in the direction of Post's brigade as
            support. In the meantime  there was a good deal of
            skirmishing and cannonading in the direction of the pontoon bridge. General Cox, with
            his division of the Twenty-third corps, was holding that position, although the enemy
            was making a strong show of attempting to cross at that point. Cox had a critical day of
            it. Had the enemy succeeded in effecting a crossing he would have had the Union troops
            between the upper and the nether millstone. With one corps already across at Davis'
            ford, five miles above, and with another at this point he would have had the three
            divisions of the Fourth corps and the two divisions of the Twenty-third corps as if in a
            vise. Fortunately for the Union side Cox's magnificent division, handled with remarkable
            skill, held its ground firmly and repelled every attempt to force his way over the
            stream. Cox withdrew his division from its position soon after dark and retired to
            Spring Hill, leaving the crossing covered by his skirmish line, consisting of two
            companies of the Sixty-third Indiana, supported by two other regiments.
          The Eighty-sixth rejoined the brigade soon after nightfall. There was no moon and the
            darkness was almost impenetrable. Wood's division filed in after Cox and began its
            retreat about 10 o'clock p. m. on the 29th. Wood was followed by Kimball's First
            division. Kimball had started northward in the morning, but had halted on the hills
            south of Rutherford creek, four miles north of Columbia. When Wood's division reached
            that point, Kimball followed with his division. Until this stream was crossed the
            progress was very slow, exasperatingly slow. The report, which had been freely
            circulated during the afternoon, that a large body of Confederate infantry had crossed
            Duck river five miles above Columbia, had been confirmed. Wagner's Second division of
            the Fourth corps, which left Duck river early in the morning, had been fighting most of
            the day at Spring Hill. However, Wood's division marched on undisturbed, until weariness
            became fatigue, and fatigue exhaustion, when the light of large camp fires broke upon
            the vision of the men some distance in front, or in the direction they were marching.
            This, of course, was supposed to be the camps of the Union  forces, and the troops, cheered by the prospect of securing rest and sleep, stepped
            briskly forward. One comrade would inform another that he intended to rest there whether
            the regiment halted or not. But lo! what a change came over the spirit of their dreams!
            The column was quietly halted, and Captain M. P. Bestow, of General Wood's staff, rode
            down the ranks and announced softly, "Boys, this is a rebel camp lying near the road and
            we must march by it as quietly as possible. Arrange everything so there will be no
            noise!" This confirmed the worst reports and put quite a new phase on the aspect of
            affairs. Every soldier who heard what the Captain said knew from his earnest tones that
            he meant that the command was in a most desperate situation, and if attacked in that
            place a miracle of skill on the part of the commander, and nerve unparalleled on the
            part of the men, alone could save the two divisions. Now shone the soldierly qualities
            of the men of the old Third division, and the cool, determined purpose and skill of the
            "iron-gray veteran, Wood," their commander. Cut off from the rest of the army, except
            Cox's skirmishers and their support, the two divisions must depend on themselves to form
            a junction with the rest of the army. With Beatty's Third brigade in advance the column
            proceeded. The Eighty-sixth was in the advance of the brigade. There never was any dilly
            dallying or foolishness about Colonel Dick if he had a duty to perform. It was "Forward,
            march!" and it was done. So it was that night. He was ordered to send forward an
            advance-guard. Adjutant Thomas detailed Companies B and H, under the command of Captain
            Jeremiah Haugh, to perform that duty, and the Captain, in quiet, low tones, ordered the
            two companies "forward" to run the gauntlet and try the alertness of the enemy. Now was
            the critical moment. 
                "And the air was so calm, and the forest so dumb,
                That we heard our heart-beats, like taps of a drum—
                "Column! Forward!"
              
            
          Everything now was keyed to the utmost pitch, but the regiment proceeded steadily,
            although very quietly, forward, and the brigade followed in like manner. All passed
            quietly and without notice by the rebels with the exception  of one regiment. Temporarily connected with the Third brigade—on this retreat
            only—was the Fortieth Missouri, a new regiment that had been pushed immediately to
            the front, and which the boys had denominated the "Fortieth Misery," on account of their
            extreme nervousness. On such an occasion as this the new regiment that would pass
            without considerable trepidation would certainly be the exception. It is said that in
            marching by the rebel camps the division actually marched through the enemy's picket
            line, that it extended across the pike, and that a part of the line was cut off and
            therefore feared to fire upon the column. But at any rate one or two of the pickets on
            the side of the rebel camp fired into the "Fortieth Misery" as it passed, and such a
            tumbling of raw recruits, and such a clatter of frying pans and cooking utensils, is
            seldom heard in an army. Those green levies were piled about five deep in the center of
            the pike, and tried hard to pile higher still. There was groaning and lamentations equal
            to a negro camp meeting. They had lain down to escape the enemy's fire, having been out
            long enough to learn that much. But this halted the column in the immediate rear, which
            was Major Snyder, with the veteran Thirteenth Ohio. The Major was a man of quick,
            decisive action. He did not care to be delayed long here, and therefore at once rode
            quietly forward and asked the nature of the trouble. Upon learning the cause of the halt
            he saw that the delay was far more dangerous than the fire, and advised the Colonel to
            march his men on as speedily and quietly as possible, and thus clear the road for the
            troops behind. The Colonel of the Fortieth hesitated. It did not require but a moment
            for the Major to decide, and riding back to the head of his regiment, he ordered the
            Thirteenth to "Forward, March!" and it literally walked over the "Fortieth Misery" and
            proceeded on its way. When the Missourians saw, or heard, or felt, the Ohio troops
            passing on undisturbed, they, too, picked up courage, gathered themselves up from that
            pile of cooking utensils and canteens, and resumed the march, though very cautiously.
            The command reached Spring Hill at daylight, and was there halted  for sometime to the right of the pike, behind some rail barricades, until
            the trains drew well out on the road to Franklin, when it again proceeded on its way. Of
            this passage of the National troops by the rebel bivouacs, General J. D. Cox, in his
            history of the Franklin and Nashville campaign, says: "About midnight Hood was informed
            that troops were passing on the Columbia road, and sent Johnson's division of Lee's
            corps to extend Bate's line and stop the movement; but the night was dark and country
            unfamiliar, and nothing came of it, but a slight occasional skirmish while our columns
            marched by in full view of the enemy's camp-fires, which were burning less than a half mile away."
          While this work was in progress the First division came up, rapidly passed through
            Spring Hill, and pushed on toward Franklin. The wagon train was now all out upon the
            road and moving northward. The Third division then moved out, marching east of the road
            a short distance and parallel to it, as a cover to the train. The Second division
            followed the Third. After leaving Spring Hill the enemy's cavalry, under Forest, made a
            dash upon the train, dispersed a squad of guards, captured and burned a number of
            wagons, but was finally driven off, and the train proceeded. The rebel cavalry made a
            second dash at the train, but was again quickly repulsed by two regiments of the Third
            division, deployed as skirmishers, aided by a section of artillery.
          Wood's division reached the vicinity of Franklin without further trouble, only the men
            were very tired. Beatty's brigade was halted for breakfast about a mile out from
            Franklin at the foot of a circle of hills that encompass the town. Here the men had only
            fairly begun their frugal meal, when the boom of Wagner's batteries sounded, in a bold
            attempt to stay the progress of Hood's onward rushing battalions. The "Fortieth Misery"
            was on its feet instantly, slung knapsacks and tired as the men were, they were ready to
            tramp on when the old soldiers checked them in their wild career by yells of derision.
            Wagner's division, the Second of the Fourth corps, was acting as rear-guard for
            Schofield's forces, and could not long delay Hood's advance.
          
          Upon arriving at Franklin the two divisions of the Twenty-third corps had taken
            position in the suburbs of the village, with their left resting on the Harpeth river
            above the town and their right across and west of the turnpike. Kimball's First
            division, of the Fourth, corps was the next to arrive and it was posted on the right of
            the Twenty-third corps, with its right resting on the river below the town.
            Intrenchments were at once thrown up by the Twenty-third corps and Kimball's division,
            of the Fourth corps. Wood's division was the next to arrive, and the line all being
            occupied, it was ordered to cross the river, and await orders. Wagner's Second division,
            which was marching in the rear, was ordered to halt on a range of hills nearly two miles
            south of the town and deploy the command to hold the enemy in check. In the meantime the
            transportation of the train was being rapidly made across the river. General Wagner
            reported the enemy in heavy force in his front evidently preparing for an attack. He was
            ordered to retire nearer to the town, which he did, posting two brigades about a third
            of a mile south of the intrenched position of the Twenty-third corps, the other brigade,
            Opdycke's, being sent inside the main works as a reserve. Wagner's two brigades were
            ordered to fall back to the main line upon the approach of the enemy in force, which
            they failed to do. The responsibility rested upon the division commander, who failed to
            give the order to his two exposed brigades.
          After Wood's division crossed the river, rations were drawn, and the Third brigade
            moved to the left of Fort Granger to protect that flank of the forces defending
            Franklin. From the brigade's position near the Fort the battle could be witnessed until
            the smoke of the contest and darkness hid the combatants from view, but the roar of the
            batteries and the terrific musketry told quite well that just "beyond the river" a
            terrible battle was being waged, and that many were "crossing over" the last dark stream
            in that cloud of smoke. General Schofield had taken his position in Fort Granger, where
            the ground was higher than on the south side of the river, that he might have a  better view of the battle-field. General Stanley was with
            General Schofield at his headquarters, and saw the enemy's entire force forming for the
            attack, "and yet," says he, "in view of the strong position we held, and reasoning from
            the former course of the rebels during this campaign, nothing appeared so improbable
            that he would make an assault." As soon as the firing commenced he left General
            Schofield and rode to the front. He arrived just as Wagner's two brigades came back in
            disorder from their exposed position in front of the works. Stanley then says: "I rode
            quickly to the left regiment of Opdycke's brigade and called to it to charge. At the
            same time I saw Colonel Opdycke near the center of his line urging his men forward. I
            gave the Colonel no order, as I saw him doing the very thing to save us." When the men
            on the line saw Opdycke's brigade start for the works they began to rally. Stanley says
            he heard the old soldiers call out, "Come on, men, we can go wherever the General can,"
            and making a rush retook the line. The struggle now became terrible. and assumed a
            savage ferocity. The enemy, though a frightful lane had been cut through his ranks,
            refused to yield the ground he had so gallantly won, and a gladiatorial contest
            followed, in which the combatants stood face to face, thrusting their bayonets into each
            others' bosoms, and with demoniacal yells, fought in the deepening twilight, more like
            savages than civilized men. It was just after retaking the line that General Stanley's
            horse was killed. He had no sooner regained his feet until he received a musket ball
            through the back of the neck. His wound, however, did not compel him to leave the field,
            and he was furnished a remount by General Cox.
          To show the fierceness of the contest, General Stanley reported that one hundred loads
            of ammunition, artillery and musket cartridges, were expended in this short battle, in
            about forty minutes, belonging to the ordnance train of the Fourth army corps. The
            Twenty-third corps must have expended as much. The battle raged, but with not such
            ferocity, until far in the night. The hastily constructed intrenchments  of the Fourth and Twenty-third corps proved to be
            impregnable, manned as they were by brave men. The enemy's dead and wounded lay in great
            heaps in front. Hood was at last compelled to give up and retire—to mourn over the
            loss of over six thousand men, and six general officers killed, six wounded and one
            captured. The Union loss was twenty-three hundred, more than half of which occurred in
            the Second division of the Fourth corps, caused by Wagner's blunder.
          The Eighty-sixth did not participate directly in this engagement, as Wood's division
            was, by orders, crossed over to the north side of the Harpeth river, but it did the duty
            assigned it. The division was held in position at the river until all troops and trains
            were out of Franklin. The battle was practically over by 11 o'clock p. m., and Schofield
            ordered the withdrawal of his forces. But a fire broke out in the town which enabled the
            enemy to see plainly if an attempt at evacuation was begun at that time. Therefore, a
            delay of one hour was found necessary, and at 12, midnight, the withdrawal began. Wood's
            division remained in position until all troops were clear of the town and marching well
            toward Brentwood, then, after destroying the bridges, it, too, quietly marched out at 4
            o'clock a. m., December 1. Just as the division got into column upon the road the enemy
            seemed to have discovered the withdrawal, and opened with a battery upon the pike, or
            tried to do so, on which it was marching northward toward Nashville, but no farther
            attempt was made to attack.
          Ever since leaving Pulaski on the 23d the nights had been nights of watching or
            marching. The first night out from Pulaski the regiment marched with less than an hour's
            sleep during the night. On reaching Columbia the Eighty-sixth was placed on picket.
            This, therefore, was a night of vigils. After this the enemy was pressing so closely
            that it required constant watchfulness. On the night of the 27th a great portion of the
            night was taken up in getting safely over Duck river and getting to the place of
            bivouac. On the night of the 28th the Eighty-sixth was again on picket.  There was neither sleep nor rest on the night of the 29th
            as the division had marched from Duck river, the march continuing all night, and now
            another night's loss of sleep and wearisome marching.
          On leaving the vicinity of Fort Granger the division marched at a very slow pace, but
            when once it was well out upon the road, and the road in front cleared of troops and
            trains, the pace was quickened. "Wood's Greyhound's" showed their speed in an
            astonishing manner. Their East Tennesse sprinting campaign and their experience on the
            Atlanta campaign had been of great benefit to them and had given them remarkable powers
            of endurance. The division breakfasted about 8 o'clock. At the outposts there was every
            indication that a general retreat would be made. All government property that could be
            moved was being hurriedly conveyed back to Nashville. Guards of stations and stockades
            were ready to take the last train back or were marching on the road to the city limits.
            A general concentration of the Union forces was being made in Tennessee. Hood was coming
            and the final contest on the red field of war was not yet at hand. Franklin was only the
            beginning of the end of the campaign. About three miles out from the city the division
            was halted and drew rations; three days rations of sugar and coffee, and two of hard
            bread and bacon, but it did not bivouac here. After receiving the rations it marched
            within two miles of its outskirts. The troops were put in order for defense of the city
            should Hood make an immediate attack. Thus after many halts and delays, almost as
            wearisome as marching, the tired men reached a place where they might hope to secure a
            little rest and sleep after undergoing a most trying and dangerous retreat from Pulaski,
            commenced on the evening of November 23 and finished on December 1.
          A copious shower of rain fell on the night of December 1. On the morning of December 2
            the final and permanent alignment of Thomas' army was commenced. The Eighty-sixth was
            moved some two hundred yards from its bivouac, but at length came back to it and were
            ordered to construct  a line of breastworks. The line of
            intrenchments ordered were soon under way to completion. General Stanley having been
            disabled by a wound at the battle of Franklin, General Wood assumed command of the corps
            and General Beatty of the Third division. The Third brigade of Beatty's division
            occupied the salient angle of Wood's line, about midway between the Hillsboro pike on
            the right, and the Granny White pike on the left. The line of the brigade was mostly to
            the left of the angle and faced to the southeast. The Fourth corps line extended from at
            or near the Granny White pike on the left to beyond the Hillsboro pike on the right.
            Nearly midway, but probably a little nearer the Hillsboro road, was the salient above
            referred to. To the right of this angle the line of intrenchments extended nearly in a
            northwest direction. The Fourth corps connected on the left with their old companion
            campaigners, the Twenty-third corps, and on the right with General A. J. Smith's troops,
            a portion of the Sixteenth corps.
          It required a great deal of work to construct the intrenchments. The rain had rendered
            the ground muddy, and wading back and forth in mud shoe-mouth deep, digging and
            shoveling in the tough clay was work indeed. This position of the Third brigade was on
            what was known as the Acklen property. Near the angle of the line of intrenchments
            outside the works was a large brick house which would serve as an excellent target for
            the rebel artillerists. It was, therefore, ordered to be torn down, which was
            accordingly done. There was some skirmishing on this day indicating that Hood,
            notwithstanding his rough treatment at Franklin, was closing down upon Thomas' forces
            around Nashville.
          On the morning of the 3d the Eighty-sixth had orders to be ready to march at 5 o'clock
            a. m., but no move was made. The enemy continued to advance. The skirmishing was quite
            lively most of the day, the musket balls of the enemy whistling at a lively rate. The
            morning of the 4th was cold and disagreeable. A detail was made from the Eighty-sixth
            for picket. The picket or skirmish line covered the front of the salient angle. The
            station for the  reserve was near the ruins of the brick
            house which had been torn down. It was located just to the left of the angle of the line
            of intrenchments. About the ruins, the angle of the works, and the reserve station, the
            rebel skirmishers' balls made music continually. A number of men passing to and fro were
            wounded here, but none of the pickets. It was, however, thought to be so dangerous that
            it was decided not to send out any reliefs during daylight, but place the second relief
            immediately after dark, and the third at 12 midnight. During a part of the afternoon and
            evening the Federal batteries opened fire on the enemy's skirmish pits and thus kept
            down his fire. Hood's army regained a healthier tone, and had it not been for the cold,
            inclement weather, might have regained, to a considerable extent, the morale lost at
            Franklin. But illy clad and poorly fed, the weather changeable, frequently quite cold
            and stormy, his soldiers suffered much, and kept their spirits low. In fact, both armies
            spent most of the time these chill December days hovering about their camp-fires when
            not on duty, or laboring to build themselves more comfortable habitations. On the 5th
            General Thomas was around the lines viewing the position of both armies.
          On the 6th Captain Matthew McInerny took command of Company H. On the 8th about 10
            o'clock a. m. the troops were ordered into the works to prepare to resist a supposed
            assault, as the enemy had driven the pickets of the First division in and showed a
            disposition, it was thought, to press on toward the works. About this time the weather
            became very bad. It rained a great deal and then turned colder, and on December 9 a most
            terrific storm of sleet and rain fell. The rain froze as it fell and the whole country
            was enveloped in a sheet of ice. It also snowed some. So the day was one of the most
            disagreeable which the men experienced during their term of service. This northern
            winter in a southern clime started the boys out anew to build winter quarters, but as
            material was extremely scarce their efforts usually resulted in failure, at best, only a
            miserable "shack" would be constructed. This cold snap shut down on the skirmishing, as
            it was too disagreeably cold, too cold for one half-frozen  wretch to try to shoot another as nearly frozen as himself. It must have been even
            worse on Hood's half-clad soldiers than on the rugged northern boys. But one hardship
            the Federals suffered that Hood's men did not, and that was the scarcity of fuel. Hood's
            army was mostly, if not all, conveniently situated close to timber, where they could
            procure an abundance of fuel, while the Union line of battle was almost destitute of
            fuel from the first. As the weather grew colder the wants were more urgent, the needs
            greater, and it required a very great deal of labor to procure fuel in sufficient
            quantity to keep from freezing, and carrying most of the supply on the backs to camp
            from wherever it could be found was no easy task. This together with the other duties
            and the inclement weather renders the siege of Nashville a memorable one to those who
            there participated in the performance of the duties on the front battle line as did
            those of the Eighty-sixth Indiana. As General Sherman said, "these soldiers performed an
            important duty in the final campaign that ended the war."
          On the 10th it grew quite cold, so cold that those who were not well clad, and a great
            many were not, suffered greatly from the cold. They hovered around their fires, or
            worked half frozen, getting up a scant supply of fuel. Others, stirred to energetic
            action by the pinching cold, went to work to build fire-places and chimneys to their
            shanties the better to protect themselves from what, in their needy circumstances,
            seemed extreme cold weather. This day there was but little skirmishing but there was an
            occasional cannon-shot fired around the lines, but the stinging cold punished far more
            just now than did the enemy. The 11th was extremely cold and very windy, rendering the
            weather extremely disagreeable and greatly increasing the suffering. The night of the
            11th was the coldest yet experienced during the winter. The 12th was a little milder and
            the ice began to thaw, and reports began to travel the rounds of the camps that the army
            "would move the next day"—that an advance would be made as soon as the weather
            would permit. On the 13th a detail from the Eighty-sixth was on  picket. The weather had moderated. It thawed considerably during the day,
            making it quite muddy everywhere about the Union battle line. There was but little
            firing around the lines to denote the strained situation of affairs that actually
            existed. Still there were some indications that Hood was not completely at his ease.
            From the reserve picket station the enemy could be seen moving artillery to the
            right—his left—but as was afterwards learned Hood expected to be attacked on
            his right by Thomas' left, and this moving his artillery in plain view may have been
            with hope of deceiving Thomas, but if so it failed signally.
          The organization of the Fourth corps now was as follows: 
              FOURTH ARMY CORPS,  Brigadier General T. J. Wood, Commanding.
              FIRST DIVISION, Brigadier General Nathan Kimball,
                Commanding.
              First Brigade,Colonel Isaac M. Kirby, Commanding.
              Second Brigade, Brigadier General Walter C. Whitaker,
                Commanding.
              Third Brigade, Brigadier General William Grose,
                Commanding.
              SECOND DIVISION,Brigadier General Washington L. Elliott,
                Commanding.
              First Brigade, Colonel Emerson Opdycke,
                Commanding.
              Second Brigade, Colonel John Q. Lane Commanding.
              Third Brigade,Colonel Joseph Conrad, Commanding.
              THIRD DIVISION, Brigadier General Samuel Beatty,
                Commanding.
              First Brigade,Colonel Abel D. Streight,
                Commanding.
              Eighty-ninth Illinois,
              Fifteenth Ohio,
               Fifty-first Indiana,
              Eighth Kansas,
              Forty-ninth Ohio.
              
              Second Brigade,
              (1). Colonel Sidney M. Post, Commanding.
              (2). Lieutenant Colonel Robert L. Kimberly, Commanding.
              Fifty-ninth Illinois,
              Seventy-first Ohio,
              Forty-first Ohio,
              Ninety-third Ohio,
              One Hundred and Twenty-fourth Ohio.
              Third Brigade,
              Colonel Fred Knefler, Commanding.
              Seventy-ninth Indiana
              Thirteenth Ohio,
              Eighty-sixth Indiana,
              Nineteenth Ohio.
            
          The strength of the Fourth corps is given by the official records as follows: On
            November 30, commissioned officers, 766; enlisted men, 16,200; total, 16,966. On
            December 10 it was as follows: Commissioned officers, 686; enlisted men, 14,415; total,
            15,101.
          On December 10, the strength of the Twenty-third corps with General Thomas is given as
            follows: Commissioned officers, 496; enlisted men, 9,781; total, 10,277. The strength of
            General A. J. Smith's command—the Sixteenth corps—three divisions of
            it—is given on the 10th of December as follows: Commissioned officers, 581;
            enlisted men, 11,345; total 11,926.
          It will be seen by the above that notwithstanding its hard service and great loss in
            the Atlanta campaign, the Fourth was the strongest corps in Thomas' army, and the one
            around which he ranged his many heterogeneous organizations for the impending battle in
            defense of the city of Nashville. The Fourth corps served the same purpose to Thomas'
            army at Nashville that the Army of the Cumberland did to Sherman's army on the Atlantic
            campaign: it was the main-stay and center around which he constructed a magnificent army
            for defense and attack, and one which won imperishable glory on the field,
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXVIII.  THE BATTLE OF NASHVILLE.
          Two Days' Hard Fighting—The Plan of the Battle—Montgomery Hill Captured by
            the Fourth Corps—The Second Days' Battle—Overton's Hill Assaulted—The
            "The Colored Troops Fought Nobly"—The Gallant Second Brigade Repulsed With Heavy
            Loss—Colonel Post Wounded—The Third Brigade Assaults and Captures Overton's
            Hill—Union Success—Hood Makes a Hasty Flight—Pursuit of the
            Enemy—A Frightful March—In Camp at Huntsville—General Wood's
            Congratulatory Order.
          The 14th of December was comparatively a quiet day. Nothing of importance transpired on
            the line to denote an early move or indicate an impending battle. There was some slight
            skirmishing, but it was not particularly hot or spiteful, although the weather had
            moderated and freed the soldiers from its icy grasp. On the afternoon of the 14th,
            General Thomas called a meeting of the corps commanders for consultation and having
            discussed the plan of attack until thoroughly understood he issued Special Field Order
            No. 342, of which the following is a part:
          Paragraph IV. As soon as the state of the weather will admit of
                offensive operations, the troops will move against the enemy's position in the
                following order:
              Major General A. J. Smith, commanding detachment of the Army of the Tennessee,
                after forming his troops on and near the Harding pike, in front of his present
                position, will make a vigorous assault on the enemy's left.
              Major General Wilson, commanding the cavalry corps, Military Division of
                Mississippi, with three divisions, will move on and support General Smith's right,
                assisting, as far as possible, in carrying the left of the enemy's position, and be
                in readiness to throw his force upon the enemy the moment a favorable opportunity
                occurs. Major General Wilson will also send one division on the Charlotte pike to
                clear that road of the enemy, and observe in the direction of Bell's Landing to
                protect our right rear until the enemy's position is fairly turned, when it will
                rejoin the main force.
              
              Brigadier General T. J. Wood, commanding Fourth army corps, after leaving a strong
                skirmish line in his works from Laurens' Hill to his extreme right, will form the
                remainder of the Fourth corps on the Hillsboro pike, to support General Smith's
                left, and operate on the left and rear of the enemy's advanced position on the
                Montgomery Hill.
              Major General Schofield, commanding the Twenty-third army corps, will replace
                Brigadier General Kimball's division of the Fourth corps with his troops, and occupy
                the trenches from Fort Negley to Laurens' Hill with a strong skirmish line. He will
                move with the remainder of his force in front of the works and co-operate with
                General Wood, protecting the latter's left flank against an attack by the enemy.
              Major General Steedman, commanding District of the Etowah, will occupy the interior
                line in the rear of his present position, stretching from the reservoir on the
                Cumberland river to Fort Negley, with a strong skirmish line, and mass the remainder
                of his force in its present position, to act according to the exigencies which may
                arise during these operation.
              
              Should the weather permit, the troops will be formed to commence operations at 6 a.
                m. on the 15th, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
          On the morning of the 15th General Thomas finding the weather favorable ordered the
            attack to be made in accordance with the plan promulgated in the Special Field Order
            above quoted. The weather was even more favorable than had been apprehended the evening
            before. The formation of the troops in battle array was wholly concealed from the enemy
            by a dense fog which did not clear away until near noon. This gave General Thomas a
            great advantage, General Hood being taken completely by surprise, and was not,
            therefore, ready for such a "hustling mill" as Thomas gave him from the first round.
            There was, however, considerable delay in completing the alignment, still the fog veiled
            the movement and shortened the vision of the doomed rebel army. But there was an
            important change made in the plan of the battle as first proposed by General Thomas.
            Finding that General Smith had not taken as much distance to the right as was intended,
            Thomas directed General Schofield to move his command—the Twenty-third
            corps—from the position in reserve to which it had been assigned, over to the
            right of General Smith, enabling the cavalry thereby to operate more freely in the
            enemy's rear. This was rapidly accomplished  by General
            Schofield, and his troops participated in the closing operations of the day. In making
            the alignment the Third brigade, Third division, Fourth corps, was moved back and forth
            many times before the line was finally adjusted according to General Thomas' wishes.
            When the line was completed ready for the advance, the Eighty-sixth on the front line,
            was almost directly in front of the salient of its old line of works. Here it was
            ordered to construct a new line of breastworks, some two hundred yards or more in
            advance of the old, but advanced upon the right of the line. The men were ordered to
            "stack arms" and go forward about one hundred or one hundred and fifty yards in front of
            their own line to a stone fence, tear this down and carry the stone thus procured back
            to the battle-line, and there to be used to make the revetment of breastworks. It proved
            to be an extremely dangerous duty to perform. By this time the fog had cleared away. The
            enemy had a strong skirmish line in the regiment's immediate front, and observing what
            it was doing, opened a brisk fire upon it which he maintained as long as he was
            permitted to remain and occupy his line of rifle pits.
          Right at this point the Eighty-sixth met one of its most trying ordeals. To be exposed
            to a galling fire, without being permitted to resist or fire upon the enemy in return,
            is what puts the nerves of soldiers to their severest test. This is what the
            Eighty-sixth experienced here. It was another Rocky Face Ridge or worse. Clothing was
            repeatedly cut by rebel missiles, rocks were shattered in the very grasp of men as they
            carried them back to the proper line, but the work went steadily on. There fell a man
            severely wounded, here another. They were removed by the stretcher-bearers and the work
            proceeded. The enemy, like so many malignant hornets, stung every moment and persevered
            in it with a persistence worthy of a better cause. Here Jesse W. Carter, of Company H.
            and A. B. Walker, of Company K, were wounded. William W. Sanders, of Company K, was
            killed instantly, shot through the head. Colonel Dick was standing near by. He ordered
            the stretcher-bearers to  remove the body at once, and the
            work on the intrenchments was not interrupted. The loss of the regiment here in open
            ground while subject to the fire of this skirmish line was some ten or twelve. Directly
            after this experience of the Third brigade, the Second brigade of Beatty's division,
            commanded by Colonel Philip Sidney Post, of the Fifty-ninth Illinois, assaulted the most
            advanced position of the enemy's forces on Montgomery Hill. The hill was swept from foot
            to crest in a most gallant manner and with very small loss. The hill was about midway
            between Hood's main line of works and the salient of the Fourth corps' line. In point of
            time this movement had just terminated successfully when General Thomas ordered General
            Schofield to move from his position in reserve to take his place in the line on General
            Smith's right. But this success was not enough. The fiery and determined Wood pressed
            his lines forward and captured the enemy's main line. W. O. Blake, the historian, of
            this last movement and the first day's fight, says: "The Fourth corps continued to
            advance, and carried the entire line in its front by assault, and captured several
            pieces of artillery, about 500 prisoners, some stands of colors, and other material.
            Just before dark the command again advanced, but night coming on it bivouacked before
            completing the designed movement. The total result of the day's operations was the
            capture, by the forces under General Thomas, of sixteen pieces of artillery and 1,200
            prisoners, besides several hundred stands of small arms and about forty wagons. The
            enemy had been forced back at all points, with heavy loss, and the Federal casualties
            were unusually light. The behavior of the troops was unsurpassed for steadiness and
            alacrity in every movement, and the original plan of battle, with but few alterations,
            strictly adhered to."
          After the capture of the main line of the enemy's works there were some indications of
            a precipitate retreat on the part of the enemy, and therefore General Thomas ordered
            General Wood to move his corps farther to the left to the Franklin pike and southward
            upon it. The movement was commenced immediately, but night overtook the command  before it reached the Franklin pike and it bivouacked as
            before stated. In fact, the entire line of battle of Thomas' army bivouacked where
            darkness found it. The men ate a soldier's meal and sank to rest on the damp earth,
            while their commanders planned their work for them and made preparations for the next
            day's battle.
          Of the loss sustained on the 15th the Fourth corps was the greatest, being about 350.
            Smith's loss was a little less and Schofield's was about 150, and those of Steedman's
            and Wilson's were still less, being a very small loss when the magnitude of the battle
            and the results are considered.
          It had been a day of activity, excitement and peril to those engaged. The results had
            been unexpectedly great as can readily be seen. Hood had been driven from his advanced
            position, then followed up and forced from his main fortified line and compelled, toward
            the close of the day, to fall back and again fortify to have any hope of staying the
            conquering Union forces. Thomas' troops had been uniformly successful, capturing every
            position attacked, driving the Confederates pell mell before them, killing, wounding and
            capturing many, and greatly demoralizing all of them. So successful had the Union forces
            been in the day's battle that Hood himself saw certain disaster before him unless the
            whole army could be aroused to superhuman courage and effort, and therefore on the
            morning of the 16th he gave orders to his subordinates to prepare to retreat that
            evening. He hoped by the very strong position taken, and the good fortifications
            erected, to be able to ward off Thomas' attacks for the day and then march his command
            away intact under cover of the darkness of the following night. But it was too late. The
            powerful, crushing blows of Thomas were not to be parried or stayed. Hood had dallied
            with opportunity until it was no more. He could not well retreat while pressed so
            closely on every hand, and before night of the second day's battle his army was a
            disorganized, disorderly mob.
          Reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock on the morning of the 16th of December for the
            Eighty-sixth, and in fact for the  Third brigade. It was
            expected to be a very busy day. At sun-rise Colonel George F. Dick gave the regiment the
            command "Double-column on the center at half distance—March!" and the regiment
            performed the evolution as though it was on the parade ground instead of the bloody
            field of battle, and in a very few moments the command was ready for the day's work.
            Marching eastward as the command was when night had overtaken it the previous day, it
            soon crossed the Franklin pike. Beatty's division, and probably the whole corps,
            executed a wheel to the right until its line extended at right angles with the pike, and
            then advanced southward on the line of the pike, Beatty's division east, and Kimball's
            west, of the pike, Elliott in reserve. But General Wood finding that there was a
            division's space upon the line between Kimball's right and General A. J. Smith's left,
            he ordered General Elliott's division to forward into line. Thus early in the afternoon
            of the 16th all three divisions of the Fourth corps were upon the front line facing the
            enemy. The distance traveled by the Confederates from the line from which they had been
            driven was only sufficient to find an easily defensible position—no farther. Hood
            had not found it practicable to get away on the night of the 15th, but had chosen an
            exceedingly strong position and built very good strong breastworks. The position and
            works appeared almost impregnable. There were several strong forts on the line that had
            been previously constructed which added greatly to the strength of his otherwise strong
            position. His line extended from Overton's Hill on the right of his line east of the
            Franklin pike, westward some distance beyond the Granny White pike, thence turning
            nearly due south ended by a sharply refused line of intrenchments on a high hill, that
            since the battle, but previously nameless, has been known as Shy's Hill, from the
            Colonel of the Confederate Twentieth Tennessee, who was killed there in the evening of
            the second day's battle. Hood's line was also sharply refused on the crest of Overton's
            Hill running south. Refusing the ends of his line made his flanks more secure and more
            difficult to flank or turn. The Union line was facing the Confederate  line, the latter only being outflanked upon the left of its
            line by Wilson's cavalry. The Confederate line being the interior line could be more
            strongly manned with an equal number of men, and troops held in reserve could re-inforce
            any particular part of their line much more quickly and easily than the Union troops
            could. Thomas' superior numbers, however, allowed him to maintain the strength of his
            line and extend it equal to that of Hood's.
          The advance, after crossing to the east of the pike, had brought the Union battle front
            well up to the enemy's intrenched line, within striking distance. Now, however, there
            was not the same decisive action and rapidity of advance as on the previous day. The
            Union command "had run up against a stump," and wanted a little time to consider the
            situation before he took further action. The enemy had chosen a much stronger position
            than the one he had held on the morning of the previous day. Hood, too, had his command
            better in hand for battle. There were no outlying detachments to be taken by surprise
            and in detail. The whole army now was solidified into one mobile mass as it were, a
            strong battle line well intrenched, and with a single purpose to hold his position
            firmly until nightfall, when darkness would cover his intended retreat. Every man in
            Hood's army facing the Union forces knew this must be done or certain defeat awaited
            them, and defeat meant rout and ruin and such disaster as had never yet befallen their
            flag in a single day's encounter. Therefore, if their hearts were at all in the cause
            which they represented they must fight to the last, as never men fought, or give up
            hope. This was the situation from which there was no escape.
          About noon of the 16th Steedman's troops, consisting of two brigades of colored
            soldiers, joined Knefler's brigade on the left, and extended that flank of the Union
            army. By order of General Thomas, General Wood, the Fourth corps commander, also took
            direction of these two brigades for the day. The skirmish lines were pushed well up to
            the enemy's works and annoyed him greatly by maintaining a sharp fire upon his line, and
            especially on his batteries on  Overton's Hill. The
            courageous part played by the skirmish line enabled officers to make a pretty careful
            reconnoissance of the enemy's position and works, to find if possible where an assault
            might be directed with the best chance of success and the greatest results if
            successful. General Thomas was with General Wood directly after noon, but the position
            of the enemy was so very strong and so fully manned that he would not order an assault.
            In fact, after passing on to Smith's command, and then to Schofield's, and hearing the
            report of the reconnoissances made of the enemy's position and strength, General Thomas
            did not order an assault, but left the corps commanders to decide that for themselves.
            The "Iron Gray Veteran" of the Fourth corps soon decided to make the attempt on
            Overton's Hill, the strongest point on the enemy's entire line, but the one, which if
            attained, would yield the greatest results to the Union cause, as it would place in the
            hands of the Federal troops the main road on which the Confederates must hope to
            retreat. With their retreat cut off in this direction, as it would be with Overton's
            Hill captured before the rest of their line was broken, they must surrender or disperse,
            and this would indeed be a death blow to their cause.
          Knefler's Third brigade, of Beatty's division, was ordered to construct a line of
            intrenchments some hundred yards in front of the enemy's works on the hill and hold it,
            and Post's Second brigade was ordered to assault the key to the enemy's position,
            Overton's Hill, supported by Streight's First brigade. Thompson's brigade of colored
            troops, of Steedman's command, supported by the other brigade, Grosvenor's, was also
            ordered by General Wood to assault the hill simultaneously with Post's brigade. The
            lines of the advance of the two brigades converging, their flanks would come together at
            the angle of the enemy's works on the crest of the hill to be assaulted. This was the
            strongest point, but if attained, would place Hood at Thomas' mercy and therefore worthy
            of an heroic effort. A heavy fire of artillery by order of General Wood had been
            concentrated  on the enemy's position on the hill for
            sometime before the assault was made.
          About 3 o'clock in the afternoon the columns of attack were ordered forward. The troops
            advanced slowly at first until nearing the enemy's works. When it was thought they were
            in striking distance they were ordered to charge "double quick." Now, the full manly
            voices of the men of the Northwest rang out in their startling, terrific yell of
            defiance, joined at once by the colored troops on their immediate left, and the final
            rush was made. The assault was made in truly gallant style and the attack was well
            sustained, but they were attacking veterans of the Confederate army who had been tried
            in the fire of battle many times, and who were as brave as the bravest of the heroes of
            Waterloo. These veterans were in a good position, behind excellent works which protected
            them effectually and rendered them practically secure. The Confederates were not to be
            stampeded by noise, and true to their cause, they fought desperately, never giving an
            inch of ground or exposing themselves unnecessarily from the protecting cover of their
            good works, but maintaining a rapid steady fire of both musketry and artillery. Both
            columns of attack were severely handled and finally repulsed. But before the commands
            retired the wounded came streaming back through the Eighty-sixth and the other regiments
            of Knefler's brigade. This gave the men to understand how desperate had been the attack
            and defense in their immediate front. Indeed the Eighty-sixth well up to the front did
            not need to see the wounded to know that it had been a desperately fought battle—a
            maliciously hot engagement. The thunders of the rebel batteries, the dreadful crash of
            grape and canister, the the spiteful hiss of the little bullets oracularly communicated
            the fact that there was red-handed work right there in front—in arm's length, and
            in which the Third brigade might at any moment expect to be invited to participate. The
            attack did not last long. The Union troops were compelled to retire from the attack.
            Knefler's brigade covered their retreat and the attacking 
            columns withdrew from their advanced position without molestation. They had fought
            gallantly, had almost attained the object of the attack, mounted the rebel works, but
            the lines of the enemy were unshaken and the fire was too hotly maintained, and they
            were forced reluctantly to yield ground. This was attributable to two causes: the strong
            position, and the enemy, warned by the maneuvers, had divined that the attack was to be
            made at this point first, and had been able to reinforce Overton's Hill until he felt
            secure in point of numbers. He was, therefore, unintimidated and stood his ground
            resolutely. The loss of the Second brigade was considerable, Colonel Post himself being
            among those who were severely wounded. The colored troops fought no less bravely than
            did the Second brigade, and their loss was equally great, but all was without avail. Yet
            it showed conclusively that the "smoked Yankees" could be relied upon.
          General Wood's attack upon the point most to be desired had failed. It was too strong a
            position and too well fortified to be swept by a handful of men, when the enemy was
            warned and had time to reinforce the ordinary battle line which held it. It was a
            commanding position, both as to the battle-field and as to his line of retreat. The
            enemy was fully aware of this, and therefore determined to hold it if possible. But not
            in the least disheartened the corps commander, with General Thomas' consent and
            direction, made preparation for a combined attack that would at least put matters on a
            different footing, and to a certain extent rob the enemy of the advantage he seemed to
            possess after the repulse of Post's and Thompson's brigades. The left of the enemy's
            line had been extended until it was very thin and weak, and he beheld with great dismay
            the preparation for assaulting his position. The officer in command called for
            reinforcements in all haste, but then at other points he was in but little better shape
            to spare men and resist an attack, as he had been roughly handled all round the line
            during the day, although no direct assault had been made except on Overton's Hill, at
            least, by the infantry. But the batteries  had knocked his
            works right and left, and the skirmishers had crept near his works in many places, and
            maintained a hot and commanding fire. All soldiers who have campaigned in really great
            campaigns know how trying it is on one's nerves to be set up as a mark for
            sharp-shooters for ten or twelve hours at a time. This was the situation of the
            Confederates at many points on their line late in the afternoon of the 16th.
          But Wood's gallant attack, unaided, failed, and something else must be attempted. The
            attack upon Hood's position began with General Schofield's command on the Union right,
            and ran along the blue-coated line from right to left like a wave along the shore.
            Knefler's brigade was still at work on its line of intrenchments when the wave of action
            reached it. "Forward," was the word that rang from the lips of Colonel Dick. This was
            the regiment's only preparation for the assault. The Eighty-sixth and, in fact, the
            Third brigade, were to attack directly in their front, on Overton's Hill, where the
            brave brigade of the gallant Colonel Post had made its attack and failed. Now began a
            charge in some respects almost equal to the wonderful assault on Missionary Ridge.
            Colonel Dick, always a prompt and energetic commander, threw the whole of his soldierly
            spirit into his every command, as if it were a forlorn hope. His subordinates seconded
            his efforts with equal spirit and resolution, and thus the regiment was sent ahead for
            the enemy's works under a full head of steam. There was no time to "fall in" and "form a
            line." All that could be done was to grab one's gun and rush to the front. Not a moment
            was lost, and the men went forward at a full run, no halting, no hesitating, no seeking
            shelter behind stumps or trees, but right on for the works and the enemy. Cheers far to
            the right indicated that there, too, Union men were pressing the enemy, and that he
            would have work all along the line, and could not mass at any particular point. For this
            reason, if for no other, they would have a better chance to win what seemed to be an
            impregnable position. Could this point be carried, even then? Could this hill be
            captured, this  stronghold, the citadel of the enemy's
            position? If it could be done, complete success was assured. On the run, over the ground
            of the previous assault, the regiment passed heaps of the slain, both white and black,
            but the men had little time to note the horrors of the battle-field now, although a
            glance was sufficient to show that it had been a fearful slaughter for so brief a time.
            On the regiment went, still at a run for the works and their occupants. The fire of the
            enemy was not as severe as had been expected, and the men literally ran over the works
            and many Confederates.
          
              "As ye dance with the damsels to viol and flute,
              So we skipped over breastworks and flocked in pursuit,"
            
          Capturing the fort, guns and prisoners, and kept right on scarcely stopping to notice
            what was captured, but almost treading on the heels of the fleeing fugitives. Colonel
            Dick in his report says: "At the point where my regiment gained the enemy's work he had
            left in good condition four pieces of artillery, over which I placed a guard. Here also
            the regiment captured fifty-five enlisted men and three commissioned officers." Captain
            McInerny went to the rear with a squad of some fifty odd prisoners, while the regiment
            continued the pursuit of the enemy still east of the Franklin pike. Only those who were
            in first-rate racing condition could keep the pace set after the enemy, and many fell
            behind the regiment from sheer inability to maintain the high rate of speed for so long
            a time and distance. The Eighty-sixth in the very front of all the army raced on after
            the fleet-footed Confederates until the darkness of night fell. When finally halted the
            Eighty-sixth was within fifty yards of quite a large number of demoralized rebels, who
            by their officers had been brought to a stand. There were a number of teams and a
            battery, but all were fearfully shaken up, and it was only by the most strenuous
            exertions that the officers could hold them here from one minute to another. The
            Eighty-sixth had raced on after the enemy with such headlong impetuosity that there was
            only a handful of the regiment present when the halt was called, the others having
            fallen behind from sheer exhaustion. Had the enemy had the nerve he might  have turned and captured the entire squad, as he probably
            had ten times the numbers. But of course the Confederates were so frightened that they
            thought of nothing but to try and escape.
          Just beyond where the Eighty-sixth was halted was a little swale, thickly grown up with
            underbrush, and just the other side of the swale was the demoralized enemy, with a
            battery and some teams. They could not be seen, but the teamsters shouting and swearing
            at their teams, and the officers giving commands and trying hard to bring the men under
            control, could be heard. The battery fired one or two rounds and then hastily retreated.
            The men had been halted here in their mad flight, and undoubtedly a strong attempt was
            made to organize a rear-guard to cover the retreat. Every few moments some of the men
            would break away for the rear, and then a general breaking up of the ranks would occur.
            The officers tried to rally them and called them cowards and swore horribly, threatening
            to shoot the very next one who made the attempt to retreat without orders. A number of
            the Eighty-sixth wanted to continue the pursuit—to push on over the swale and
            attack this squad and try at least for their capture, but the officers, probably under
            positive orders to halt, did not deem it prudent to push ahead farther with so few men,
            not knowing exactly what was in their immediate front. The rebel artillerist, as stated,
            braced up sufficiently to fire one or two rounds, then retired still farther south.
            There was every evidence of extreme demoralization on the part of the enemy: teamsters
            were shouting at their teams, wagonmasters were giving their orders in stentorian tones,
            officers were cursing their men as cowards and poltroons of the meanest kind and lowest
            grade. The men in turn were vociferating that they would face the enemy as long as the
            officers, but that they were greatly outnumbered and overpowered, and that further
            resistance here was wholly useless. But during all this talk, some of the men, impatient
            of restraint, would break away and occasion another outbreak of profanity on the part of
            the officers. The officers  were evidently very greatly
            excited, and probably almost as badly frightened as the poor privates.
          The Fourth corps was far in advance in the pursuit of all other infantry, in fact, up
            with the cavalry at this time, and General Wood probably deemed it unwise to push on
            farther during the night, and so ordered the command to halt. Had the men been allowed
            to run on and attack the enemy, as some of them, at least, wanted to do, quite a large
            number of prisoners might have been secured, together with artillery and wagons, as the
            enemy was badly demoralized. There were not over twenty-five or thirty of the
            Eighty-sixth present when this swale was first reached, but they were all soldiers and
            ready for the work before them. Others speedily came up, and they continued to arrive,
            until a good force was on hand, and in a very short time the entire regiment was there
            and ready to go forward if the command should be given. By this time the Confederates
            had entirely withdrawn. One by one they went at first, until their officers saw it was
            the sheerest folly to try to hold them, when they all scampered, rejoiced in being
            allowed to get away so easily.
          It is a fact, accepted by all who have written upon the details of the battle of
            Nashville, that Wood's Fourth corps led in the pursuit of the enemy on the evening of
            the second day's battle, and bivouacked for the night far in advance of all other
            infantry commands of General Thomas' army. It is equally certain that the men of Colonel
            Knefler's brigade, of Beatty's Third division, led those of the Fourth corps, and of
            these the Eighty-sixth were in the front line, and were abreast of the leaders. This
            much is due the Eighty-sixth, Colonel Dick and his subordinate officers. Neither
            Colonels Knefler nor Dick ever permitted their men to hang back when there was work to
            be done, and on this day as at Missionary Ridge, the men had no disposition to loiter by
            the wayside, but crowded to the front with the greatest spirit and courage, aye rushed
            gleefully forward as if invited to a banquet where only friends were to be met, and
            where unclouded joy and  unrestrained pleasure were to be
            found and quaffed as the soul's most inspiring draught.
          It was a great day of battle and this its most notable assault—the climax, in
            fact, of the two day's battle. The battle of Nashville was one of the most decisive
            victories of the war, in which many hard knocks were given and received, before the end
            came, but which came quickly and surely in the dusk of the evening when the final grand
            assault was made by the Union forces. From one end of Hood's intrenchments to the other
            the blue lines of the advancing columns of the Federal troops could be seen charging
            upon the enemy with the most daring impetuosity. There was, therefore, at this stage of
            the game no time, chance, or opportunity to reinforce this or that part of the appalled
            Confederate battle-line. The forces, marshaled as they were, must meet the shock of the
            onward, rushing battalions, or suffer defeat and utter rout. There was no escape from
            this dread alternative. The one swinging, crushing blow that was to decide the battle
            was delivered with the full force of Thomas' combined divisions, and came too soon,
            after the repulse of the smaller attacking column on the left, to permit a re-adjustment
            of Hood's forces. This combined attack changed the status of affairs from that of the
            previous assault, by Post's brigade and Steedman's colored troops, and crowned the last
            attack with a glorious success. Few as they had been in the former attack, the Union
            troops had fought the enemy to the verge of victory, and that, too, over magnificently
            constructed breastworks on the enemy's own well chosen ground. The Eighty-sixth might
            well have said 
                "We have seen the cannon,
                When it hath blown his ranks into the air,
                And like the devil, from his very arm
                Puff'd his own brother."
              
          The fire of the contending batteries was terribly fierce and the slaughter great during
            the brief half hour the assault was maintained, yet the Third brigade was unappalled and
            rushed to the fray when ordered to charge into the fiery girdle—the flaming crater
            on the crest of Overton's Hill— the Eighty-sixth
            leading and her companion regiments following with equal enthusiasm, spirit, and
            courage.
          It has been said that "a victory, is twice itself when the achiever brings home full
            numbers," and this is probably as nearly applicable to Thomas' victory at Nashville as
            any general battle fought during the war, if it is taken into consideration that his
            forces were the attacking ones, but it is still more applicable to the assault of
            Colonel Knefler's brigade which was led by Colonel George F. Dick and his regiment, the
            Eighty-sixth Indiana Volunteer Infantry. Again had the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth
            Indiana and the Nineteenth and Thirteenth Ohio earned for themselves the right to be
            termed "rash, inconsiderate fiery voluntaries," by their daring
            courage and the impetuosity of their assault upon the rebel works on Overton's Hill,
            where before their very eyes so many of their comrades had been slain and the remainder
            of the attacking force had been apparently so easily repulsed.
          Said a captured Brigadier General, in speaking of this charge: "Why, Sir, it was the
            most wonderful thing I ever witnessed. I saw you were coming and held my fire—a
            full brigade, too—until they were in close range, could almost see the whites of
            their eyes, and then poured my volley right into their faces. I supposed, of course,
            that when the smoke lifted, your line would be broken and your men gone. But it is
            surprising, Sir, it never even staggered them. Why, they did not come forward on a run.
            But right along, cool as fate, your line swung up the hill, and your men walked right up
            to and over my works and around my brigade, before we knew that they were upon us. It
            was astonishing, Sir, such fighting."
          The various regiments of the brigade sustained the reputations they had won at Stone's
            River, Chickamauga, Missionary Ridge and all through the Atlanta campaign, by winning in
            the most brilliant and gallant manner this stronghold of Hood's position in a few brief
            minutes, and with comparatively small loss. Of the number of prisoners and small arms
            captured by the Eighty-sixth or Knefler's brigade, 
            Colonel Knefler reported 158 prisoners and 9 guns, Beatty's Third division captured 721
            prisoners, and 13 field pieces. The Fourth corps captured 1,968 prisoners and 25 guns,
            besides many thousands of small arms, and regimental colors of which no account could be
            taken. All this was accomplished with a loss of but 750 men killed and wounded of the
            entire corps.
          Of the many incidents of the battle worthy of being chronicled it would be difficult to
            make a selection for these pages. The courage of the men were at the highest pitch, and
              all gave evidence of their determination to capture the enemy's
            works and win the day if indomitable courage and audacity could do it. Never was the
            regiment or brigade more perfectly in unison, more thoroughly combined by a dogged,
            inflexible purpose than they were on this day united instantaneously, on the word of
            command to "Forward," by the resolution to capture Overton's Hill and end the day's
            battle. The officers of the Eighty-sixth were all aglow with the spirit of battle and
            nobly sustained and encouraged the men to press forward and on to still greater
            achievements of valor and heroism. To these let all praise be given, but let us not mar
            the memory of the occasion by trying to put one above the other,—officers and men
            were in the grand rush simply unmatched and matchless soldiers. Could more be said?
          One incident occurred in the Eighty-sixth, but was no part of it, which is worthy of
            recital because it shows to some extent the depth of the heroism of the colored soldier.
            It has become a trite saying, "The colored troops fought nobly," more frequently quoted
            in a spirit of levity than out of admiration for their heroic courage. No one who
            witnessed the first assault on Overton's Hill, will ever question the true courage of
            the down trodden colored man. When Post's brigade, of Beatty's division, and Thompson's
            brigade of colored troops, were repulsed a number of the latter held their ground well
            up to the enemy's works, not retiring when the columns of assault retired. Here they
            remained until the onset of Knefler's brigade. They joined the leaders of  the storming column and went over the works with the spirit
            and resolution of veterans. One of these was so elated by the final, but what, no doubt,
            seemed to him long delayed, success, of the Union troops that he jumped upon a piece of
            artillery and stroked it with his hand as he might have done a favorite horse or dog,
            patting and petting it as though it were a thing of sense and intelligence. Of course he
            was an ignorant, unlearned colored man, but he knew the victory was gained. At first he
            and his comrades had been beaten. Many of them lay just over the works—dead. He,
            however, was unwilling to acknowledge it was a defeat. He waited and watched for
            assistance to accomplish the work. But these grim monsters—these bull-dogs of war
            roared on, belched forth death and destruction, and it seemed that no body of men could
            stand before them and live, much less capture the works. But with the spirit of a true
            hero he persevered in waiting and watching until hope was almost gone. His intrepidity
            was to have its own proper reward—victory. A handful of men came over their partly
            constructed works and started for those blazing cannon. He waits. They come abreast of
            his cover, still on the run. He is unlearned in books and scholastic training, but he is
            a close observer and has been a student of nature and the human countenance all his
            life, and now he reads in every lineament of the rugged faces of these men that they
            mean to capture these works, that hill, cannon, and all else that do not run away from
            them. It was enough. He joins the procession, and rushing among the Eighty-sixth he goes
            over the works with a leap and a shout. The enemy flees. The works are taken. The hill
            is captured. The guns are silenced. He is satisfied and looks no farther. This to him
            was the complete victory—the end of the battle, and he was as happy as the laurel
            crowned hero in the greatest triumph. He himself was a hero as was many of his comrades
            on that dreadful day on the bloody slopes of Overton's Hill. All honor to the colored
            soldiers although in their magnificently sustained charge they failed, and equal honor
            is due to the Second brigade.
          
          The battle of Nashville was one of the great decisive battles of the war. There can be
            little doubt that it created a greater depression in the hearts of the people of the
            South than any single battle fought prior to that time. The battle of Franklin had cast
            a cloud of gloom over many Southern homes for the loss of their loved ones who fell
            there, but it was a personal sorrow rather than one of the whole people, as their army
            still advanced farther north, and many retained a hope that the intrepid Hood with his
            brave army would do even more than he had promised, and proceed on north until the Ohio
            river was crossed and the Northern States successfully invaded. This would call large
            reinforcements from Grant's army before Richmond and relieve Lee, and possibly create
            such an impression in Europe as to lead to the recognition of the Confederacy by foreign
            powers. But now after the battle of Nashville hope was gone, and to the personal sorrow
            of the individuals for the loved and lost, were added the sorrow and gloom and
            depression of spirits of a disappointed people that had held high hopes for the near
            future of this so called government.
          The Nashville papers, which were received the next day while in pursuit of the enemy,
            stated that Thomas had captured about 5,000 prisoners and more than 30 pieces of
            artillery. According to later accounts this is too high as to the number of prisoners
            taken. To be brief as to the captures made from the enemy during these two day's battle,
            they were as follows: Prisoners, 4,462, and 53 pieces of artillery and thousands of
            small arms. General J. D. Cox says in his history of the battle that "Thomas' return of
            prisoners captured, and deserters received during November and December, show the number
            to be over thirteen thousand; besides these he reports the capture of seventy-two
            cannons and three thousand muskets."
          At 6 o'clock that evening, from his headquarters eight miles south of Nashville,
            General Thomas dispatched President Lincoln and Secretary Stanton, from which the
            following extract is made.
          "This army thanks you for your approbation of its conduct  yesterday, and assures you that it is not misplaced. I
              have the honor to report that the enemy has been pressed at all points to-day on his
              line of retreat to the Brentwood Hills. * Brigadier General Wood's troops on the
              Franklin pike took up the assault, capturing the enemy's intrenchments, and in his
              retreat also capturing eight pieces of artillery, something over 600 prisoners, and
              drove the enemy within one mile of the Brentwood Hill Pass."
          The Eighty-sixth bivouacked in the edge of the swale before mentioned where the pursuit
            of the enemy ended on the evening of the 16th. The men were in fine spirits. They had by
            their valor, with their companions in arms, sent the braggart Hood whirling southward.
            It is true a portion of this same army had been beaten almost, if not quite, as badly at
            Missionary Ridge, but not all of it was so routed. At the latter battle that portion of
            the rebel army opposed to the Fourth and Fourteenth corps, had been perhaps nearly as
            badly beaten from what they thought an impregnable position, and that, too, in a very
            unexpected manner, but Hardee's magnificent corps, the flower of Bragg's army on the
            rebel right, opposed to Sherman's forces, were not so beaten, and, in fact, had held
            their ground until nightfall and then withdrew in good order, and with their
            organization intact and perfect morale, as was evidenced by the battle
            they gave General Hooker's command the following day at Ringgold. Not so here at
            Nashville. Every command, every regiment, in the rebel intrenchments opposed to the
            Federal troops were utterly routed, and either captured or chased like the wild deer of
            the forest, from their posts and breastworks. The rank and file of the Union troops knew
            this and appreciated their victory. They knew what it all meant, and were
            correspondingly jubilant. The Union loss had been exceedingly small for the result
            attained, and this also made the Federals feel happy. Therefore, around the Union
            bivouac fires that burned brightly on the night of December 16, 1864, near Brentwood
            Hill Pass, there gathered cheerful, happy groups of men who chatted in a lively, gleeful
            manner, and discussed the exploits of the day's battle and its happy termination. This
            lively conversation was kept up during the time of preparation and disposal of the
            evening meal. There  was no ill-humor there. The boys
            almost hugged one another in the excess of their joyous good humor. It was a happy
            bivouac. The officers and men commingled in a free and easy manner. It was a grand
            victory.
          The evening meal was speedily disposed of by the hungry men, the "shake downs" were
            spread here and there upon "the lap of mother earth" for the night's rest, and the weary
            men were soon in the land of pleasant dreams. Shortly after the men had gone to rest,
            torrents of rain began to fall and the drowsy soldiers were soon wallowing in water.
            Wearied and sleepy as they were, the water drove them from their beds upon the earth to
            perch like so many fowls at roost, here or there, on stumps, logs, or limbs, or
            anything, or anywhere, to get up out of the water and shield themselves from the rain.
            Consequently the night's sleep and rest were almost wholly lost.
          Reveille was sounded for the Eighty-sixth and the Third brigade at 4:30 a. m. on the
            17th. The preparation of the morning meal and its disposal, the drying of blankets and
            pup tents, required the greatest dispatch that the men might be ready when the order was
            given to march.
          About 8 o'clock the regiment was formed and received the order from Colonel Dick to
            "Double column on the center at half distance—march," and thus it advanced through
            forest and field until well up to Brentwood Hill Pass. Marching in this way was
            tiresome. Besides the manner of marching, the warm and super-abundant rains, had
            rendered the ground very soft, especially in the cultivated fields, and consequently the
            footing was bad and the progress slow. A certain amount of caution was necessary, as it
            was thought possibly that the enemy might have rallied sufficiently during the night to
            attempt to make a stand at Brentwood Hill Pass, at least, to delay pursuit. But he had
            been too severely beaten and was too badly demoralized to think of risking any of his
            forces by attempting to make a stand at that point. Having found no armed enemy at the
            Pass the regiment was permitted to march upon the road in the ordinary route step.
            Shortly after it had reached the pike some  four hundred
            and fifty rebels and their officers passed the Third brigade going now for sure to
            Nashville. Wilson's cavalry, Knipe's division, had captured them at Hollow Tree Gap,
            four miles north of Franklin. So many prisoners had been taken and more still coming in
            was quite cheering and all felt that Hood's army would not be in the way very long.
          Knefler's brigade, of Beatty's division, arrived at the north bank of the Harpeth river
            about 4 o'clock on the 17th and bivouacked for the night not far from Fort Granger, and
            during the evening drew rations for three days. Wood was as expeditious as any one could
            have been with infantry in getting to Franklin, but Wilson's cavalry beat him there.
            They had driven the frightened enemy from the town, and had taken about 2,000 wounded in
            the Confederate hospitals, 200 of which were Federals. The enemy was getting away with
            the greatest precipitancy and had no time to furnish transportation for the wounded. It
            was as much as the able-bodied could do to get away with sufficient speed to save
            themselves from capture, and all seemed pretty thoroughly frightened at this stage of
            the game. The recent heavy rains had swollen the streams, already full, to an unusual
            degree, and the roads were abominable. It was manifestly out of the question for the
            troops to make rapid progress in the pursuit. General Cox says: "Hood's retreat from
            Nashville to the Tennessee and Thomas' pursuit were almost equally laborious for their
            armies, though very different in their effects upon the spirits of the troops. The roads
            were in horrible condition, even those which had been macadamized being almost
            impassable. The ordinary country roads were much worse, and, after passing Pulaski, till
            the Tennessee was reached, the wreck of wagons and the carcasses of animals filled the
            way."
          On the morning of the 18th reveille was sounded at 4:30 and about 8 o'clock Knefler's
            brigade filed out from its place of bivouac, crossed the Harpeth river, and marched once
            more through the town of Franklin. But this time the Union troops were the pursuers, not
            the pursued. Following Hood's footsteps they took the Columbia pike. The evidences of
            the  desperate repulse the rebel army had met here were to
            be seen. Upon the immediate right and left of where the pike passed through the Federal
            breastworks, the most desperate fighting of the battle of Franklin occurred. Here the
            enemy, by General Wagner's error, succeeded in taking a portion of the works. In some
            respects it was the most desperate battle of the war. Just outside the intrenchments the
            very great number of graves told how great the slaughter of the Confederates had been.
            These brave Southerners had crowded close upon the works and almost fell in heaps around
            the lines of the Union army's intrenchments. Near the pike, on the east side, was where
            the desperate and aggrieved Cleburn tried to gain, for the complaining Hood, the battle,
            by the most indomitable courage. A little farther on to the east was the place where
            with equal impetuous courage Brigadier General John Adams lost his life in a most daring
            assault upon the works in a vain attempt to break the Union line, his horse falling
            astride of the Federal parapet, while he himself, by the momentum of his rush upon the
            works, was pitched headlong into the Union ranks mortally wounded.
          Having passed beyond the town of Franklin one mile a halt was called and the troops
            were permitted to rest, when they were not tired. The cavalry was in the advance and had
            run up against some barricades defended by the rear guard of the enemy. It required some
            time to make the proper disposition of the troops for the attack, but when it was once
            made they carried the barricades in whirlwind fashion, dispersing the enemy and
            capturing a number of the defenders of the works. The onward march of the infantry was
            at once resumed and was continued steadily, the column passing through Spring Hill and
            some distance beyond, bivouacking at dark. During the night of the 18th there was a
            terrific rain storm. The down pour of water was wonderful, all low grounds were flooded,
            and the soldiery and their paraphernalia were thoroughly soaked. The march was resumed
            on the morning of the 19th, Generals Wood and Wilson acting most promptly and
            energetically on Thomas'  instructions to press the enemy.
            The rain continued to fall but it grew much colder during the day. About 11 o'clock a.
            m. Rutherford's creek was reached. The rebels in their retreat had destroyed the bridge,
            and as the creek was greatly swollen it was impossible to cross it until some kind of
            bridge could be constructed. The command bivouacked and work on a bridge was speedily
            commenced. A cold rain fell during the night, rendering the work on the bridge to
            proceed very slowly. It also made the soldiers' bivouac anything but a haven of rest and
            comfort. A day was most unpleasantly spent at this place, as it grew colder toward
            morning and froze considerably. About 1 o'clock p. m. on the 20th the bridge was
            completed, at least, it was ready for footmen, and the command marched out for Columbia.
            The Confederates had made good their escape across Duck river which was also impassable,
            as they allowed no bridges to remain in their rear. A cold rain continued to fall and
            the wind rose, forming a combination that thoroughly chilled one to the bone, and it was
            a first rate producer of neuralgias and rheumatisms. Is it to be wondered that so many
            old soldiers in after years complain of suffering with rheumatism and nervous troubles?
            The Fourth corps followed close upon the heels of the cavalry down to Duck river
            opposite the town of Columbia. The river was running wild, now a mighty stream, wholly
            impassable without a good bridge. It could not be crossed until pontoons could be
            brought up from the rear. The command bivouacked near the river and the men made
            preparations to try to secure as much comfort out of the situation as was possible. They
            began once more to do some artistic work for the benefit of their commissary. They were
            growing tired of the exclusive diet of hard tack and bacon, and as "variety is the spice
            of life," they thought a change of diet would be relished by themselves and comrades as
            well as conducive to their well-being. Hard marching over bad roads, building bridges,
            standing picket day and night, in sun and in rain, in sleet and in snow, either broke
            one down speedily or gave him a robust appetite. The gobble of a  turkey, the cackle of a hen, or the squeal of a pig, was sure to call out a
            strong detachment of the boys to search for the offender against the peace and quiet of
            the bivouac. And there was seldom any escape from the experts sent out on such
            occasions. The activity of the men was also forced to exercise itself in procuring fuel.
            Fires were an absolute necessity to keep one from freezing, to say nothing of their
            needs for cooking purposes. A light snow fell on the night of the 20th, and taking this
            as a warning that winter was not over, the bivouac of the Eighty-sixth was a busy one
            throughout the day of the 21st, laying in supplies of straw for bedding, eatables, and
            fuel. The day was a painful one to those not exceptionably well clad or very robust, and
            the cold grew more penetrating and disagreeable as the darkness of night approached.
            This bivouac on the banks of Duck river will long be remembered by the hardy men,
            officers and privates, of the Fourth corps who during this pursuit and winter campaign
            endured almost the hardships and privations of the Revolutionary fathers at Valley
            Forge.
          It was not until darkness had fallen on the night of the 22d that the bridge was
            completed ready for the troops to cross Duck river. Soon after dark the men of Knefler's
            brigade took up their burdens for a night march uncomplaingly, and tramped off for the
            river which was crossed in in due time, but not in haste, as the darkness was almost
            impenetrable, rendering progress tediously slow. Passing through Columbia and probably a
            mile beyond, the brigade bivouacked. The Eighty-sixth was called upon to furnish pickets
            for the brigade, and sent out a heavy detail for that duty. It was no light or easy task
            to perform picket duty at this time. The enemy was in front, and although retreating, he
            might turn and attack at any time. The cold was stinging one's fingers until the trusty
            Enfield could scarcely be held, but the duty was imperative and had to be performed. The
            pickets returned to the bivouac of the regiment at 1 o'clock on the 25th, the command
            being under orders to march, but for some reason it did not set forward until sundown.
            The column proceeded in the  direction of Pulaski and
            covered some four or five miles in the darkness of night and again bivouacked.
          The Fourth corps was now for a short time the leaders, even of the cavalry in the
            pursuit of the enemy on the Pulaski road. On the morning of the 24th, however, the
            cavalry passed to the front again and pressed on after Hood's disorganized army. Now,
            however, the dare-devil Forrest had rejoined Hood's shattered column and assumed command
            of the rear-guard, in fact, reorganized a new rear-guard much more efficient than the
            one that acted up to this point. With Walthall's infantry command, and three other
            brigades of infantry, those which were the least broken and dispirited, and his own
            superb cavalry command Forrest combined an efficient force for defensive resistance, and
            throwing all the fiery energy of his nature into the command of this little army, he
            sought by every possible means known to military art, to stay the progress of the Union
            troops, but in vain. Still with this force, and favored by the inclement weather, the
            horrible state of the roads, and the delays to Wilson's cavalry and the Fourth corps
            caused by the swollen streams, he probably saved the remnant of Hood's frightened army
            from capture before reaching the banks of the Tennessee river. About 11 o'clock a. m.
            the command resumed the march forward, reached Lynnville midway between Columbia and
            Pulaski before night, and passing probably a mile beyond that place, bivouacked in a
            woods near the road. For Christmas eve the men suppered on the usual bill of fare of a
            soldier.
          On Christmas morning the march was resumed at 9:30 o'clock. Christmas was to be
            celebrated by a grand rush after Hood's retreating column. The halts were brief, the
            column pressing steadily forward with a determination not hitherto evinced, or the
            conditions heretofore had rendered impracticable. The road was very muddy from the place
            of the night's bivouac to Pulaski. Knefler's brigade reached the latter place about 2:30
            p. m. on Christmas day, after an absence a few days over a month. A halt was made here
            and the troops took advantage of the occasion and dined. 
            The march was soon resumed. The cavalry had come to the enemy's rear-guard. Forrest made
            a stout resistance at all points. The infantry was hurried forward as rapidly as the
            abominable condition of the roads would permit to assist Wilson and participate in the
            attack, but the enemy usually skurried off before it arrived. He was hard pressed by
            Wilson, and had destroyed large quantities of ammunition in order to lighten the loads
            of his wagons. He also doubled the teams and spared no effort that nothing might impede
            his rapid progress. For some miles beyond Pulaski the road was literally strewn with the
            remnants of the destroyed cartridges. From Pulaski Hood's column had borne off to the
            southwest toward Florence, Alabama. From that town the roads were almost impassable.
            Passing over the red clay hills, the rebel troops had cut them up and worked them into a
            mire, which greatly impeded Wilson's movements in pursuit. Wilson's cavalry passing over
            them made them still worse for the passage of the Fourth corps, and, in fact, they were
            rendered almost impracticable. The roads were bad before reaching Pulaski and the clay
            hills, but they were as nothing as compared to the roads south and west of that place.
            They were, at best, but the poorest of country roads, but now worked by the passage of
            so many troops and wagons into a veritable quagmire. Both Wilson and Wood had to leave a
            portion of their artillery behind and double the teams on those pieces that were taken
            along, and even then the advance was slow. The command bivouacked about dark Christmas
            evening after having covered fifteen or sixteen miles, about half of it being over these
            villainous roads. It need scarcely be related that the men were greatly wearied and
            foot-sore when the place of bivouac was reached, and this was Christmas for 1864. It was
            a cold, dreary, cheerless time.
          It was a land of desolation and dreariness. The Christmas chimes were those that rang
            out from the dread cannon's throat and not from merry bells. Christmas for the
            Eighty-sixth had always been fraught with hardships. The first one, the dreadful battle
            at Stone's River was impending;  the second one it was a
            little more than half starving in East Tennessee; and now it was enduring a dreadful
            march, after the great battle of Nashville. Christmas had brought no happy greetings,
            yet the men were not gloomy. "A shade of sadness," no doubt clouded the brows of many as
            they thought of home and its endearments, and the bright happy times enjoyed there, but
            it soon passed away and the men were cheery and anything but despondent. In fact, the
            Union army was in fine spirits for Christmas, because the men knew theirs to be much
            better and more cheering than Hood's and that of his army. One could almost quote the
            Southern stanza in the spirit of the author: 
                "Wild bells that shake the midnight air
                With those dear tones that custom loves,
                You wake no sounds of laughter here,
                Nor mirth in all our silent groves;
                On one broad waste, by hill or flood,
                Of ravaged lands your music falls,
                And where the happy homestead stood
                The stars look down on roofless walls."
              
          On the 26th orders were received to march, but the command to set forward was not
            given. Rations were getting exceedingly scarce, but the supply train after a great
            effort and prodigious labors succeeded in getting up, and in the afternoon drew three
            days' rations to do five. Near night word came that the regiment would remain for the
            night.
          On the 27th at 8 o'clock the onward march was resumed, but Hood was well out of
            Wilson's and Wood's reach and completed the crossing of the Tennessee river with his
            army on the evening of that day. But Wood pushed ahead. The roads were in the worst
            possible condition. The tough clay through which the men were compelled to trudge
            precluded the possibility of their making rapid progress, and many of the men became so
            exhausted they were unable to keep pace with the column and consequently there was much
            straggling. Having marched ten or twelve miles the command was halted and at length
            bivouacked at this point. Everybody who had marched afoot was thoroughly exhausted and
            worn out, more greatly wearied than they had often been in a march of twenty or thirty
            miles upon good roads. Yet  tired as all were the camp or
            bivouac duties, inexorable in their requirements, rested upon all alike and had to be
            performed. The weather on this day was warm and pleasant, being a marked change from the
            few preceding days.
          On the 28th the tiresome tramp was resumed at 8 o'clock a. m. The day's march was
            laborious in the extreme. The roads were of the same villainous character. Knefler's
            brigage bivouacked on a hill in the woods not far from Lexington, Alabama, some twenty
            miles distant from Florence, where Hood was supposed to have crossed the Tennessee
            river. In point of fact, however, Hood crossed the Tennessee river at Bainbridge. Here
            ended the pursuit of Hood's demoralized army by the Fourth army corps, and it would
            probably have been just as well if Wood's command had been halted at Pulaski, as nothing
            was accomplished, so far as advantage over Hood's retreating army was concerned, by the
            slavish march from Pulaski south. The other infantry commands had been halted, Smith's
            at Pulaski, and Schofield's Twenty-third corps at Columbia, the really hard work and
            service being put upon the Fourth corps.
          On the morning of the 29th the "general call" was sounded, and preparation was made for
            marching, but after waiting some time the word came that the command would not move on
            this day. Then commenced, at once, other preparations, those which would conduce to the
            physical comfort. Some got up wood, others went foraging, while others carried up corn
            fodder with which to make shelters, or put up tents, and some "poor unfortunates" went
            on picket. Thus all had work to do and were busily engaged most of the day. The command
            remained here during the 30th, and on the night of that day there was a severe storm.
            First there was quite a rainfall, then it turned colder and finished up with a snow
            storm which almost entitled it to take rank as a northern "blizzard"—several
            inches of snow being on the ground on the morning of the 31st. The effective strength of
            the regiment at this time was 190; an average of 19 men to each company.
          Reveille was sounded at 4 o'clock. The march was  resumed
            about 7 o'clock a. m. but this time it was in an eastward direction, toward Athens and
            Huntsville. The snow made the situation anything but pleasant. It made the roads muddy
            and slippery. A fair day's march was made and the bivouac of the Eighty-sixth was
            located on a high hill in a wood of large trees. Rails were conveniently near and the
            men had the comforting influence of good fires. And so passed away the year 1864 for the
            Eighty-sixth.
          On the following day, the first day of the year, 1865, reveille was sounded about 4
            o'clock and the troops made ready for marching, but did not move until about 2 o'clock
            p. m. The command then marched about one and a half miles and bivouacked on another very
            high hill in the woods. It remained here the 2d. There was a detail made for foraging,
            as well as an order for roll-call, something the Eighty-sixth was not accustomed to when
            on the march unless it was a general order to prevent straggling. The foraged meat was
            issued to the troops as rations. The command rested at the bivouac until about 11:30 a.
            m. on the 3d, when the column set forward at 12 noon. Soon crossed Elk river and took
            the road to Athens. The march was made at a lively pace considering the condition of the
            roads. The command covered about eleven miles and bivouacked about 8 p. m. at Athens.
            Some of the Thirteenth Ohio boys got very angry at the brigade commander, Colonel
            Knefler, and in the darkness of the night called him all sorts of names. This they would
            not dared to have done in daylight, as the Colonel was a strict disciplinarian.
          Reveille on the 4th was sounded at 5 a. m. and the column marched at 7:30, passed
            through Athens and took the road to Huntsville. The march was made at a good telling
            pace and the place of bivouac reached about 4 o'clock. Rails were plenty and the men had
            a comfortable night. The following day, the 5th, two day's rations were drawn in the
            early morning, and resumed the tramp at 8 o'clock a. m. Knefler's brigade reached
            Huntsville at 10:30 a. m., marched through town to the south, rested for some two hours,
            waiting for a camp to be selected. At length the march was  resumed, the column marching south toward the Tennessee river. After having proceeded
            about five miles from Huntsville, about half way to the river, camp was pitched about 4
            o'clock p. m.
          General Wood now issued his congratulatory order to the troops under his command. It
            was dated Headquarters Fourth Army Corps, Huntsville, Alabama, January 6, 1865, and
            reads as follows: To the Officers and Soldiers of
                  the Fourth Army Corps:
              You have received the commendations of his Excellency, the President of the United
                States, for your glorious deeds in the various conflicts around Nashville on the
                15th and 16th ult. You have received the commendations of the Commanding General of
                the forces engaged in those conflicts, not only for your splendid achievements on
                the field of battle, but for your cheerful endurance of privations and hardships, in
                the most inclement weather, during the long and vigorous pursuit which followed the
                rout of the enemy in the vicinity of Nashville.
              As your actual commander on the field and in the pursuit I desire to add my
                commendation to the high encomiums you have already received, and to tender you my
                grateful thanks for your soldierly conduct, both on the field of battle and in the
                trying pursuit.
              Without faltering at the command of your officers you repeatedly assaulted the
                enemy's strongly intrenched positions and drove him from them in confusion and
                dismay. When he was utterly routed and no longer durst confront you in battle, you
                at once commenced the most vigorous pursuit. Continued it more than a hundred miles
                at the most inclement season of the year, over the most miserable roads and across
                deep and difficult streams, which were passed by your labors alone, and until the
                enemy was driven in utter disorganization across the Tennessee river.
              The substantial fruits of these glorious deeds were twenty-four pieces of
                artillery, five caissons, several stands of colors, many thousand stands of small
                arms and two thousand, four hundred and sixty-six prisoners. Such noble service
                entitles you to lasting gratitude of the Nation. Fortunately this great success was
                achieved with comparatively slight loss to the corps: seven hundred and fifty killed
                and wounded will cover the entire casualties of the corps in the two days'
                conflict.
              To the friends of the gallant dead and to the wounded—and I am sure you will
                join me in this tribute of comradeship—I offer my sincere sympathy and
                condolence.
          When General Wood issued this order full and accurate reports of the killed and wounded
            had not, probably, been made out, and he, as subsequent reports show, underestimated  the loss of the corps. Yet it did not greatly exceed his
            figures, falling a little under one thousand, which was quite small considering the
            magnitude of the battle for two full days and the greatness of the results, and more
            than a hundred miles pursuit in such very inclement weather—one of the stormiest
            times ever witnessed in the South.
          It may be very positively asserted that no campaign of the magnitude of the Franklin
            and Nashville campaign was so actively prosecuted during the war in such severe weather.
            The hardships, privations and suffering of the men have been in reality but slightly
            touched upon. The horrible conditions of the roads over which the pursuit was conducted
            after the battle of Nashville, the scarcity of rations, the cold inclement weather, have
            been briefly stated, but the suffering of the men cannot be put upon paper. The anguish
            of the thinly clad soldiers from the cold when on the march, in bivouac, and worst of
            all on the picket post and on sentinel duty, cannot be expressed in any manner to convey
            an adequate and just conception of what these men did actually experience and suffer. To
            appreciate correctly these things they must have been endured, or at least witnessed.
            When felt in their full force they are remembered, at least, as hardships and
            privations, although the impressions of the sharpness of the pangs of pain may somewhat
            have lost their distinctiveness in the long time now passed since the suffering was
            endured. Nor is the Union soldier who went through the Franklin and Nashville campaign
            from Pulaski to Nashville and back again, and on to Lexington, Alabama, likely to have
            his experience and suffering overdrawn or painted in too strong colors by any statements
            made relative to the hardships endured, nor is he at all likely to have over-praise
            showered upon him for services to his suffering and bleeding country in those bleak
            December days. Let the heroic Thomas have the full measure of just praise for planning
            and conducting the great battle fought under his direction; let Schofield, Stanley,
            Smith, Wilson, Wood and Cox, and all officers have due praise for services rendered
            during the campaign, but let it also be remembered  that
            the men of Thomas' army really fought the battles of Spring Hill, Franklin, and
            Nashville. They did the skirmishing that led up to these battles, and performed the
            great labors of the retreat, the battles, and the pursuit, and to these let full credit
            be rendered. It is their due.
        
        
          CHAPTER XXIX. THE CLOSING YEAR.—1865.
          In Winter Quarters at Huntsville. Alabama—A Three Days' Scout—Living on the
            Fat of the Land—Trip to Nashville and Return—Up the Tennessee River—To
            East Tennessee by Rail—The Last Days of the Rebellion—Richmond
            Evacuated—Lee Surrenders—Great Joy at the Supposed Approach of The White
            Winged Angel of Peace—Treason Dies Hard—In the Death Struggle Its Infernal
            Spirit Finds a Willing Tool to Do a Hellish Deed—President Lincoln
            Assassinated—A Gloomy, Joyless Day—The Heart of America Wounded—Return
            to Nashville—Johnston Surrenders—The Dawn of Peace—Grand
            Review—"Mustered Out"—Return to Hoosierdom—Disbanded—The Boys
            Return to Their Homes.
          The days of battle for the Eighty-sixth were now forever passed. Henceforth the rappel,
            or the bugle's warning voice, were heard only as the mimicry of the red-handed days of
            times gone by. The stern commands, shouted amidst the rattle of fire-arms or the clash
            of bayonets, were to be heard no more. The slogan of the fiery Southrons was no more to
            be answered by the war-whoop of the iron-hearted men of the Eighty-sixth as they ranged
            themselves in serried columns with their companion regiments, and formed divisions,
            pouring fearlessly forward into the smoke, and blaze, and roar of battle. They were
            ready for this duty, but the erstwhile valiant foe had disappeared, like snow before a
            summer's sun. The evening's bivouac was no more to be startled by the singing of the
            spiteful minie ball, or the terrible "where-is-ye" of the shrieking shell. The roar of
            batteries was no more to tell of the massed columns' onslaught on the enemy in ambush,
            or his fortified lines, but  only the holiday show and
            imitation of battle and the destruction of so much gunpowder. Henceforth, scouting,
            drilling, picket, brigade guard, train guarding, fatigue duty, and marching were to be
            the duties in the performance of which the Eighty-sixth should participate. Many times
            the duties were heavy, of a very trying character, and required great effort to
            accomplish, yet they were not so bad or so unpleasant as when skirmishing and fighting
            were so abundantly mingled with everything which this regiment had to do. The
            Eighty-sixth had broken its lances on the visor of its opponents with credit to itself
            and had earned its right to retire with honor, but more than this, it had won on the
            foughten field. There could be no question of its fighting qualities, its fortitude
            under the most trying circumstances; in fact, it had shown the highest soldierly
            qualities in camp, on the march, in skirmishes almost innumerable, in battles many, and
            in two great and important sieges where the Union forces were on the defensive, and many
            of them where they were the attacking force. They had therefore had a wide field of
            action in which to thoroughly test their qualities, and in none of these had the men of
            the Eighty-sixth failed.
          On the 6th of January, the next day after reaching Huntsville, camp was laid off in
            regular order. The Eighty-sixth had a fine place for camp on a hill sloping beautifully
            to the south, and thus with sunshine full upon it made it dry and a pleasant place for
            winter camping. On the following day, however, an order was received to change the
            location. There was some murmuring at first by the men who feared that they would be
            moved away from the hill. The regiment only moved about one hundred yards and again
            located. It still remained on the hill and the camp was again laid off in accordance
            with plans laid down in the army regulations—everything to the scribe or line.
            Here the men were ordered to construct winter quarters—to build huts or shanties
            with the side walls not less than five feet high. Everybody of course went to work as
            best they could, but the work progressed but slowly on account of the lack of proper
            tools  with which to do the work. Trees had to be cut down
            and cut in proper lengths, then split and carried by the men to the place where the huts
            were to be erected. It was very laborious work, as the timber was green and of a very
            heavy kind. After the logs were notched and put up, the cracks between the logs had to
            be "chinked," mortar mixed and the "chinking" thoroughly daubed or plastered to keep out
            the cold winds. This was disagreeable work as may be surmised. When the walls were
            completed the country was scoured for boards with which to construct bunks. Then the
            fire-places and chimneys had to be constructed. For the first of these rock was
            necessary and had to be carried up, sometimes quite a distance, requiring much labor.
            After the fireplace was made, the "mud and stick" chimney was to be built to top it
            out.
          On Sunday evening, January 8, cannonading could be heard down the Tennessee river in a
            southwesterly direction, but what it meant was never learned, though it was believed
            that it was the gun-boats firing upon guerrillas or rebel cavalry. The weather was quite
            cold on the 8th, a winter day indeed. The construction of winter huts, doing picket
            duty, and standing brigade guard gave the boys plenty of exercise. On the 9th there was
            an exceedingly heavy rainfall. By the 12th the shanties for the Eighty-sixth were
            completed and all were snugly housed and comfortable.
          On Saturday the 14th, Colonel Dick was ordered to take his own regiment and two others
            and go on a scout. He marched his detachment to Huntsville and placed the men aboard the
            cars after dark, but the train did not start for some time. The train conveyed the
            detachment eastward as far as Brownsboro', where it disembarked and bivouacked for the
            rest of the morning, the place of bivouac not being reached until about 2 o'clock a. m.
            on the 15th. After a brief rest the detachment was aroused and breakfasted, and the
            march resumed. The scouting now commenced. A detail was sent ahead as an advanced guard
            to the town of Maysville, some two miles or more out from Brownsboro'.  Reaching that point the detail was stationed as pickets in
            the streets of the town to await the arrival of the scouting force.
          After a brief halt at Maysville the detachment resumed its line of march It was in a
            section of country infested with bushwackers or guerrillas, those partisan soldiers that
            strike unexpected blows in the darkness of night, or pounce upon the unsuspecting
            straggler and shoot him down as though he were a highwayman. In the guise of peaceable
            citizens they watch every maneuver and move of the Union troops, and gather together,
            upon signals prearranged, and capture or kill small parties, attack wagon trains when
            moving without sufficient guards, obstruct or tear up the railroad track, destroy
            culverts or bridges by burning or other means, shoot into passing railroad trains, and
            use every means in their power to annoy, worry and injure the Union forces. These in
            this district were particularly malevolent and devilish. The trains from Stevenson to
            Huntsville had been fired into many times, and now no train dared to go over the road
            without a strong guard. It was supposed that the purpose of this scout was by marching a
            sufficient force to be entirely safe through their neighborhood, threaten their homes if
            their murderous practices were kept up, or so inconvenience them that they would desist
            or intimidate them so they would leave this section, going south where they could not
            interfere with the railroad without making long and dangerous trips.
          The boys of the detachment were under no strict orders against foraging, but were duly
            warned to beware of bushwhackers, and not to be caught napping by the cunningness of the
            enemy. The march was nearly due north from Maysville to New Market, distance from
            Brownsboro' ten or twelve miles. The line of march was almost parallel with Mountain
            creek, a tributary of Flint river, and between the tributaries of Flint river and those
            of Paint Rock river the guerrillas were particularly bold and daring, and consequently
            very troublesome. The march was made in a very deliberate, quiet manner, as there was
            but little hope of catching any of  these partisan
            warriors in their own country among all their friends. But the manner in which the march
            was conducted gave the boys who were so disposed a fine opportunity to forage, nor were
            they slow to take advantage of it for that purpose. The immediate section of country had
            not, recently at least, been overrun by troops and cleaned up, therefore, it furnished
            rather a rich picking of eatables. The bivouac near New Market was reached about 3
            o'clock p. m. The day's march had been a gay time for those disposed to forage. They
            brought in meat, molasses, meal and apples. All through the day's march bushwhackers
            were heard of, but they were all the time just a little further up country or over
            eastward toward the mountain.
          On the following morning the scout was continued by marching back into town and turning
            off to the eastward. The pace was not rapid enough to catch well mounted guerrillas, but
            it was sufficiently slow to give the boys a splendid chance to continue their foraging,
            as they at no time had to go far from the road to secure an ample supply. It was truly
            astonishing to see how willing men were to make pack mules of themselves. Of something
            that would tickle the palate they would nearly always think themselves able to carry a
            little more. About noon the detachment passed quite near a house in the yard of which
            there were a number of beehives. The day was warm and the bees were out in goodly
            numbers, but this made no difference to the honey hungry soldiers. A rush was made for
            them by all who were not afraid. The attack was made in every conceivable way. One would
            turn the hive down and break out a piece of comb and go on his way rejoicing, another
            would rush up to the hive, kick it over, knock the cap off the stand and rush out
            fighting bees and yell at the top of his voice to the great amusement of those who had
            remained in ranks. But they got the honey, that was the purpose of the raid. The place
            of bivouac was reached about 2 o'clock in the afternoon. The merry foragers brought into
            camp with them an ample supply of flour, honey, corn bread, ham, eggs and dried fruit.
            Nearly everything, in fact, that this part of the country produced in the  line of eatables was represented in the foragers' combined
            commissary. Everyone in the command had plenty to eat, and a greater variety of edibles
            than at any time almost during their term of service.
          During the afternoon a squad under command of Captain Jeremiah Haugh, of Company B,
            visited the house of an old rebel not very far from the bivouac where, it was reported,
            there were quite a number of government shoes stored that had been captured from a train
            by guerrillas or the enemy's cavalry. While the shoes were not found, yet the squad
            discovered almost everything else. A corpse was at the house, said to have been that of
            a Union man, Golden or Goldman by name, who had been killed by the bushwhackers on a
            mountainous ridge not far away. And it was generally believed by the people in the
            neighborhood that this Union man had been killed by a member of the family where the
            body now lay. It was generally remarked by those who knew the people and their
            animosities, that the body was secured and taken to the house as a protection when it
            was learned that the scouting force would probably come into this neighborhood. It did
            not, however, wholly shield them, as will be seen. There was no one at the house but
            women, which was a suspicious circumstance, as the men of the family were known to be in
            this locality. The women said that their family was the dead man's best and truest
            friend, and were wholly at a loss to know why anyone should have killed him, as it was
            not known that he had a personal enemy in the world. They confirmed the report that he
            was a Union man and acknowledged that their own sympathies were with the South, thus
            giving some show of reason for believing the neighborhood reports that the male members
            of the family may have been the guilty ones, or, at least, the instigators of the crime.
            Captain Haugh and a few of the boys went into the house to look at the corpse, and to be
            sure there was no one in hiding there, but a majority of the party remained outside
            looking for what they could find and to be sure that no band of bushwhackers was near.
            The smoke-house was most carefully searched but no sign of  bacon was found. Only one old "gobbler" of the poultry line was visible. It began to
            look like a brief hunt and a short haul. But the hunt was not given over. An amusing
            feature was the conduct of a young woman who remained in the yard to watch the boys, no
            doubt, and report whatever mischief they got into. It was little the boys cared,
            however. They kept smelling around for some meat. At length in an old out-house, buried
            in a pile of ashes they found it. All had looked in there, but seeing only the ashes,
            which were well tramped down, and had the appearance of having been there for years,
            carried their investigation no farther in that direction. By and by, however, one, more
            inquisitive than his comrades, or reasoning to a more correct conclusion, determined to
            push his interrogation of that ash heap to a final and definite result, and so began
            prodding in the pile with his bayonet. This soon settled the question, for in a moment
            he fished up a nicely cured ham. The signal was at once given announcing this discovery.
            A general assault was made on the old out-house, the particular point of attack being
            the ash heap. The meat was quickly dug up and carried off at a lively rate. There was a
            sudden rustling of calico, a whipping of skirts on the back door cheek of the house, and
            the young lady had disappeared from view. But it was only for a brief time. She had gone
            into the house to inform her mother of the great catastrophe which had befallen their
            commissary department. The old lady came out of the house with a shriek and a groan,
            followed by the girl, and the Captain coming along at his leisure. The woman
            remonstrated in a vehement manner with the Captain against his allowing the boys to thus
            rob her, and he warned the boys in a very calm and mild tone of voice not to "take more
            than one apiece." In a second after the Captain had laid this injunction on the boys, a
            soldier more hardy than the rest popped out of the door right between the old lady and
            the Captain lugging a ham in each hand. The woman thought surely the Captain would stop
            this audacious fellow who was disobeying the order almost at every moment of his
            promulgation, and therefore cried  out, "There goes one
            with two. There goes one with two." But the Captain was wholly oblivious of the woman's
            cries, and was occupied looking only to see how effectually the boys were fishing the
            hams out of the ashes. It is scarcely necessary to state that the messes represented on
            this foray, and, in fact, the whole scouting force, feasted gloriously that evening. The
            bill of fare called for hard tack, corn-pone, molasses, honey, dried fruit, ham, eggs,
            and good old government Java. One man actually so over-fed himself that he never
            recovered from it, going to the hospital directly upon the return of the regiment to its
            quarters and dying soon thereafter.
          On the morning of the 17th all were up and stirring in good time, and breakfasted on
            biscuit, honey, molasses, dried peaches, ham, and coffee. Certainly a royal feast for
            soldiers who had been actively campaigning at the front for more than two years. The
            detachment resumed its line of march to return to camp about 8 o'clock, passed through
            Maysville without any noteworthy incident and reached a point near Brownsboro,' and
            halted for dinner. Although it had passed through a country undoubtedly thickly infested
            with some of the most daring guerrillas in the entire South, none had been found. They
            had had due notice and warning, and had kept well out of the way, not daring to face so
            large a force as was on the scout. Parties of fifteen or twenty were as large as they
            ever dared to collect, and seldom so large as that, usually not to exceed four or five,
            and more frequently only two or three.
          The old soldiers were good carriers, and, therefore, still had an abundance of the fat
            of the land, and again feasted. Resuming the march soon after the meal in a very little
            while crossed Mountain creek, a tributary of Flint river. Almost immediately after
            crossing the stream an order was promulgated to cease foraging, which was duly obeyed.
            The march was continued until 4:30 p. m., at which time the command bivouacked for the
            night. On the following morning the march was resumed about 8 o'clock. Before reaching
            Huntsville the men were ordered to conceal their foraged 
            edibles. Teams and wagons had been pressed in to haul the foraged meat, so into these
            wagons were placed all bulky foraged articles and covered up. Then the march was
            continued. Reached town about 10:30 and camp about 12:30. The arrival gladdened the
            hearts of the boys who had, for various reasons, been compelled to remain in camp. They,
            too, now had a feast such as they had not had since leaving the parental roof and
            table.
          In the afternoon of the 18th the Eighty-sixth drew clothing. It was badly needed;
            almost every man in the regiment was scantily clad, some being compelled to remain in
            camp from the scout for want of clothing. For a few days now the Eighty-sixth did
            nothing but do picket duty, stand brigade guard, get up fuel to keep warm and feast on
            the good things which were brought into camp from the scout.
          On the 24th drilling commenced, and thereafter, except on Sunday, unless otherwise
            employed and the weather being suitable, the men were drilled one hour company drill in
            the forenoon, and about one and half hours battalion drill by the Colonel in the
            afternoon. Colonel Dick did not mean to allow his men to become soft and worthless for
            want of exercise. Sometimes, however, it was varied by the whole brigade being called
            out and being given a brigade drill. Besides the drilling on fine evenings the regiment
            was called out for dress parade.
          On January 31 reveille at 6 o'clock and roll call as usual. After the morning meal
            "sick call" and "guard mounting." Then there was one hour of company drill. While eating
            dinner a few minutes after 12 o'clock, without a moment's warning the "general call" was
            sounded. It startled the troops somewhat from their pleasant dreams. In a very brief
            time the meal was disposed of and everything packed up ready for tramping. The shanties
            on which the men had bestowed so much labor, now looked deserted. Although the call was
            sounded a few minutes of noon the order to set forward on the march was delayed until
            almost night, when Beatty's division marched to town and got aboard the cars. The train,
            however, for some reason was  delayed and did not start
            until about 10 o'clock p. m. At this time the train rolled out eastward toward
            Chattanooga, reached Stevenson about daybreak the next morning, February 1. The troops
            breakfasted here and then the train proceeded on its way, taking the road to Nashville,
            which point was reached about 10 o'clock that night. The next forenoon the command was
            moved out from the depot and bivouacked near its old camping place, occupied just before
            the battle of Nashville. The command remained here until February 6, when it was again
            ordered aboard the cars and returned to Huntsville where it arrived about 4 p. m.
            February 7. Disembarked and marched back to the old quarters, which were reached just at
            nightfall. All were in fine spirits at the prospect of camping once again in their good
            comfortable quarters—veritable houses. But alas! many were left out in the cold.
            Some wretch had set fire to and burned down several shanties, and therefore these
            unfortunates had to lay out that night on the cold ground while others slept in good
            bunks. Besides it now required greater labor to procure timber and construct a hut than
            it did before, as trees were not so conveniently near. But they were rebuilt.
          Brigade-guard was established on the 9th. On the 15th company and battalion drills were
            resumed and dress parade in the evening. On the evening of February 17 orders were
            received to go on another scouting expedition. It was to be a force of three regiments
            and Colonel Dick was to have command. This force started on the march about 8:30 p. m.
            on the 17th, marched south to Whitesburg, on the Tennessee river, where it arrived about
            11 o'clock and bivouacked for a short time, getting about two hours rest and sleep. The
            men were then ordered up to get aboard two gun-boats, the Stone's River and Sherman. The
            boats steamed out up the river, conveying the detachment twenty-five miles when it
            disembarked at Fearn's Ferry, on the south bank about 8 o'clock a. m. on the 18th. The
            detachment was then marched to Warrenton, a small town some five miles from the place of
            disembarkment. Here the detachment was allowed to get 
            breakfast and have a good rest. From here it was marched in a circuitous route to
            Guntersville, the shire town of Marshall county, Alabama, and almost directly east of
            Warrenton, and ten miles above the ferry. In the march eastward through the country the
            detachment ran on to a squad of rebel cavalrymen or guerrillas, or bushwhackers, or
            cutthroats, which ever they were, but they hastily skeedaddled, and that with so much
            speed there was little opportunity to get a shot at them. This part of the country was
            also thickly infested with this class of lawless men, and woe to the Union man or
            isolated Federal soldier whom they caught. But infantry could do little against them as
            they were generally well mounted and thoroughly acquainted with every foot of the
            country over which they operated and would, if pressed, at once disperse to meet at some
            other point. Some of the boys of the Eighty-sixth had found it so agreeable to their
            natures, and had experienced so much enjoyment in foraging the good things of the land
            while out on the former scout, thought they would have an equally enjoyable time on this
            occasion, and therefore started out to raid a few smoke houses, but were promptly
            checked by the Colonel. They thought to evade him and get their booty at any rate, but
            were promptly detected and called in somewhat crest-fallen. This made the boys hot, and
            there was some grumbling in ranks over the matter. The boys argued that the people here
            were just as great rebels as those on the other side of the river where they had been
            allowed to forage so freely. But the Colonel was firm and they were forced to obey
            orders. In fact, it was here a necessary order, and was much better for the boys than to
            be shot down by bushwhackers or to be captured and carried off to Southern prisons. The
            command reached Guntersville about 3 o'clock p. m. The town is situated on the south
            bank of the Tennessee river, on the great horse-shoe bend at the most southern point
            reached by the river. Took boats for Whitesburg, reaching that place about 6:30 p. m.,
            having made much better time than in going up the river. From Whitesburg,  a distance of five miles, it marched to camp which made it
            late getting to bunk.
          From this time on the regiment had no more hard service or scouting while it remained
            in camp in the vicinity of Huntsville. The duties consisted of fatigue, policing the
            quarters and hauling away the refuse from camp, patrolling the surrounding country to
            catch men ranging away from camp, and to intimidate and keep away guerrillas, picket,
            brigade guard, and drilling.
          On the 15th of March marching orders were received. Tents were struck and every
            preparation made to leave. The order, however, to set forward did not come. On the
            following day, however, the order came and the command left its very comfortable
            quarters for good, no more to gambol in the sunshine on the hill-side like school-boys
            in the May-day of life. Winter quarters were a thing of the past. The start was made at
            6 a. m. Reached town in good time, and the Third brigade got aboard the cars about 9
            o'clock and rolled out for Stevenson, which place was reached about 3 o'clock p. m. The
            government freight trains, it will be understood, made but slow time anywhere, but here
            in this part of the country which was overrun with bushwhackers, great caution was
            necessary. The command took advantage of the stop at Stevenson and dined. The run was
            then continued throughout the night, but with many stops and delays. Daylight found the
            command east of Cleveland and still running. The train on which the Eighty-sixth was
            being transported reached Loudon, on the Tennessee river, about 9 o'clock a. m. on the
            17th. Here there was a long delay. Some of the boys wandered down in town and were
            arrested by the post-guards and put in the guard-house. This caused trouble at once, and
            some of the more excitable of the old soldiers flew to the cars and got their guns
            preparatory to making an attack on the post-guards. The officers of the guards deployed
            their men, forming a skirmish line between the train and the town. The old soldiers were
            jeering and hooting at the "feather-bed soldiers" and working themselves into a greater
            passion all the time. There seemed to  be quite a fair
            prospect for a battle. But fortunately General Thomas came along in his car and the
            trouble was averted. It was settled at once at the word of the chief without bloodshed.
            The boys who had been arrested were returned to the regiment somewhat crest-fallen,
            although free once more. Left Loudon about 2 o'clock and arrived at Knoxville at 10 p.
            m. The train and troops remained at Knoxville until 12 o'clock noon the next day, the
            18th, and were then moved on eastward to Strawberry Plains, and then to New Market,
            where the troops were disembarked and bivouacked about 9 o'clock p. m., having been
            aboard the cars three days and two nights. Most, if not all of the men were heartily
            glad to get off the cars and were quite willing to try a little moderate marching rather
            than to be penned up in box-cars and shipped about the country like so many hogs or
            cattle.
          At New Market drilling was resumed, picket duty had to be performed, and then the camp
            had to be cleaned and fixed up. This kept the men pretty busily engaged for some days.
            But when not employed otherwise the boys would make up a game of ball and have a "high
            old time" at that amusement. It seemed that they could not be quiet any more for any
            great length of time—activity had become a kind of second nature to them. The
            weather was very changeable while the command remained at New Market. Sunshine, cloud
            and rain, wind and cold, were strangely and variously mingled from day to day. On the
            26th corps headquarters were moved to Morristown, eighteen miles farther east. This
            served as a notice to the men that they might expect to move on soon.
          On the morning of the 29th the command was called up at 2 o'clock to pack up extra
            baggage to send it back to be stored. The orders were to march at 5 a. m. The column
            started forward at 5:30 a. m., and covered about fourteen miles and bivouacked. A heavy
            rain fell during the night. The next morning the march was resumed at 6 a. m., passing
            through Morristown and Russellville the command bivouacked about 1:30 p. m. after
            marching twelve or thirteen miles. During the night of the 30th there was another down
               pour of rain which rendered the roads still worse than
            they had hitherto been. The tramp was resumed at 6 a. m., and covering five or six miles
            Bull's Gap was reached. Here the command was halted and bivouacked.
          On Monday morning, April 2, 1865, at Bull's Gap, East Tennessee, the news was received
            by a telegram from General Grant that Richmond and Petersburg had been evacuated by the
            enemy and taken possession of by Union troops. This was gloriously good news and
            everybody was jubilant. All now felt confident that as the Capital of the Confederacy
            had been taken the days of the Confederate States were numbered, that the life of the
            Confederacy itself was of a few days and full of trouble, and then to be no more
            forever. The Union forces from every direction were evidently concentrating in the
            direction of Richmond, or rather in the direction of Lee's army now. The Fourth corps
            was marching eastward to head him should he try to come this way. Sherman with his grand
            army, "sixty thousand strong," was marching northward and closing down toward Richmond,
            and Lee saw plainly enough that if Sherman arrived with his conquering army that he
            would be cooped up in Richmond and Petersburg and starved, and therefore forced to
            surrender. His only hope then was to escape from the clutches of Grant's army and join
            Johnston, and thus combined try and crush Sherman. But Sheridan by his dashing
            generalship headed Lee off from Johnston and now the Fourth corps was to be thrown
            across his pathway.
          On the morning of the 4th of April reveille was sounded at 4:30 and Knefler's brigade
            filed out upon the road at 7. A lively pace was at once set, and the column went forward
            rapidly and steadily and passed the First and Second divisions, which had hitherto been
            in the advance of the Third division in East Tennessee. Another dispatch was read to the
            troops while on the road, confirming the evacuation of Richmond and Petersburg, which
            greatly elated the boys and they stepped along at a lively rate, talking of the prospect
            of going home soon. A halt was made at noon for dinner, and then again marched away at
            the same lively rate and  bivouacked at Greenville, the
            home of Andy Johnson, about 5 o'clock, after having marched about twenty miles.
          The command remained until about noon the next day, April 5, at which time Beatty's
            division resumed its eastward march and bivouacked that evening near Raytown, and the
            Eighty-sixth was sent out on picket. The following morning reveille was sounded at 4:30
            and the column filed out upon the road to continue its eastward tramp at 6. The road led
            over a broken, hilly country. The day was warm which rendered marching anything but an
            easy task. The column passed through Leesburg and on, arriving at Jonesboro about 3
            o'clock in the afternoon, where the troops bivouacked. The Eighty-sixth did not pitch
            its camp or bivouac with the rest of the brigade, but in the edge of the town.
          The Eighty-sixth arrived at Jonesboro' on the 6th of April. On the 10th a dispatch came
            bearing the pleasing information of the surrender of Lee's army to General Grant on the
            previous day. This was great good news over which all rejoiced. On the next day another
            dispatch was received confirming the dispatch of the previous day and giving a few more
            of the particulars of the surrender. A dispatch was also read stating that General
            Sherman had captured a portion of Johnston's forces in North Carolina. On Wednesday the
            12th a dispatch was received stating that Johnston was retreating before Sherman, and
            also saying that Forrest and Roddy had been captured, or, at least, that they had
            surrendered. This indeed began to look like the closing up of the business of the
            Southern Confederacy and the approach of the White Winged Angel of Peace, and therefore
            all rejoiced. On the 13th came another dispatch confirming the surrender of Forrest and
            Roddy, and also one announcing the capture of Lynchburg, Virginia. Almost daily now
            there came telegrams of the surrender of portions of the rebel army indicating that in
            truth and in fact the boastful Confederates were falling and tumbling over one another
            in their undignified haste to climb out of the "Last Ditch." All the late events of the
            war pointed to the early restoration of the supremacy of the United States government
            over  its broad domain, and peace over all. Again the torn
            and distracted country would be at rest and bask in the sunlight of peace as in the
            halcyon days of yore, and her eagles would once again bathe their blood stained talons
            in the still waters that flow by the shores of amity and concord. On the 15th a dispatch
            came saying that General Lee had advised all rebel officers to surrender their commands
            to the nearest United States forces.
          Such was the condition of affairs when the lightning-like stroke of assassination
            stunned the American people. On Sunday, April 16, the Eighty-sixth was inspected by
            Captain Walker, Brigade Inspector for the Third brigade, and everything was dragging
            along in the usual hum-drum channels of camp-life. But in the evening a dispatch came
            bringing the shocking news that President Lincoln had been assassinated. This fell like
            a pall. It caused universal sorrow in the army, for no one in all the land came so near
            the hearts of the soldiers as Mr. Lincoln. They had never seen him, but his kind words
            had come to them and touched in their hearts a sympathetic cord. His character and
            greatness has been analyzed as follows by one of America's greatest orators: "Lincoln was not a type. He stands alone—no ancestors, no
                fellows, and no successors. He had the advantage of living in a new country, of
                social equality, of personal freedom, of seeing in the horizon of his future the
                star of hope. He preserved his individuality and his self-respect. He knew and
                mingled with men of every kind; and, after all, men are the best books. He became
                acquainted with the ambitions and hopes of the heart, and the means used to
                accomplish the ends, the springs of action and the seeds of thought.
              "Lincoln never finished his education. To the night of his death he was a pupil, a
                learner, and inquirer, a seeker after knowledge. You have no idea how many men are
                spoiled by what is called an education. For the most part, colleges are places where
                pebbles are polished and diamonds are dimmed.
              
              "Lincoln was a many sided man, acquainted with smiles and tears, complex in brain,
                single in heart, direct as light; and his words candid as mirrors, gave the perfect
                image of his thoughts. He was never afraid to ask—never too dignified to admit
                that he did not know. No man had keener wit or kinder humor. He was not solemn.
                Solemnity is a mask worn by ignorance and hypocrisy—it is the preface,
                prologue, and index to the cunning or the stupid. He was natural in his life and
                thought—master of the story teller's art, in illustration apt, in application
                perfect, liberal in speech, shocking Pharisees and prudes, using any word that wit
                could disinfect.
              "Lincoln was an immense personality—firm but not obstinate. Obstinacy is
                egotism—firmness, heroism. He influenced others without effort, unconsciously;
                and they submitted to him as men submit to nature, unconsciously. He was severe with
                himself, and for that reason lenient to others. He appeared to apologize for being
                kinder than his fellows. He did merciful things as stealthily as others committed
                crimes. Almost ashamed of tenderness, he said and did the noblest words and deeds
                with that charming confusion—that awkwardness—that is the perfect grace
                of modesty. As a noble man, wishing to pay a small deft to a poor neighbor,
                reluctantly offers a hundred-dollar bill and ask for change for fear that he may be
                suspected either of making a display of wealth or a pretense of payment, so Lincoln
                hesitated to show his wealth of goodness, even to the best he knew.
              "A great man stooping, not wishing to make his fellows feel that they were small or
                mean.
              "He knew others, because perfectly acquainted with himself. He cared nothing for
                place, but everything for principle, nothing for money, but everything for
                independence. Where no principle was involved, easily swayed—willing to go
                slowly if in the right direction—sometimes willing to stop, but he would not
                go back, and he would not go wrong. He was willing to wait. He knew that the event
                was not waiting, and that fate was not the fool of chance. He knew slavery had
                defenders, but no defense, and that they who attack 
                the right must wound themselves. He was neither tyrant nor slave. He neither knelt
                nor scorned. With him, men were neither great nor small—they were right or
                wrong. Through manners, clothes, titles, rags, and race, he saw the real—that
                which is. Beyond accident, policy, compromise, and war, he saw the end. He was
                patient as Destiny, whose undecipherable hieroglyphs were so deeply graven on his
                sad and tragic face.
              "Nothing discloses real character like the use of power. It is easy for the weak to
                be gentle. Most people can bear adversity. But if you wish to know what a man really
                is, give him power. This is the supreme test. It is the glory of Lincoln that,
                having almost absolute power, he never abused it, except upon the side of mercy.
              "Wealth could not purchase, power could not awe, this this divine, this loving man.
                He knew no fear except the fear of dying wrong. Hating slavery, pitying the
                master—seeking to conquer, not persons, but prejudices—he was the
                embodiment of the self-denial, the courage, the hope, and the nobility of a nation.
                He spoke, not to inflame, not to upbraid, but to convince. He raised his hands, not
                to strike, but in benediction. He longed to pardon. He loved to see the pearls of
                joy on the cheeks of a wife whose husband he had rescued from death.
              "Lincoln was the grandest figure of the fiercest civil war. He is the gentlest
                memory of our world."
          The soldiers of the army of the Union although unable thus to analyze and point out the
            elements of greatness in the character of their beloved leader felt in their hearts his
            greatness and his goodness—the influence of his mighty intellect and his great
            heart, and loved him as man has seldom or never been loved by the rude soldiery and the
            common people of any country. It was a dark day for the army when it knew that Lincoln
            was no more—foully murdered by the hand of an assassin. The men felt that a
            leading light had been put out and henceforth, during the rest of this war, they must
            grope on without its beneficent and cheering ray. Sad and sorrowful were the camps. Even
            the joyful news  of the great victories recently won could
            not dispel the gloom the death of Lincoln caused. Time alone could heal the wound. An
            eloquent writer says of the death of Abraham Lincoln: "Foreign
                nations, too, joined in the general grief. Of all the rare and wonderful revelations
                of human emotion elicited by the march of great events, during the last four years,
                that with which the sentient world quivered in response to the outrage perpetrated
                upon the American people, on the 14th of April, was the most marvelous. The blow
                which murdered Abraham Lincoln not only wounded the heart of the Western Continent,
                but stirred humanity to its profoundest depths throughout the civilized
                world—not with sympathy merely for the peculiarly bereaved nation, but with
                the rage and anguish of a personal wrong and loss."
          If then people of foreign countries felt so keenly the death of this truly great man
            how must his children, the Union soldiers, have suffered when they knew of their loss.
            Pen cannot describe it or tongue tell of the deep heartaches felt by thousands of
            soldier patriots when they heard of his taking off.
          On the 19th of April General Tillson's command arrived at Jonesboro and the command was
            relieved. On the 20th at 10 o'clock orders were received to march at noon. At the
            appointed time the division filed out upon the road, marching westward. It was the same
            old rapid pace as aforetime when going to meet the enemy, and steadily maintained. The
            command bivouacked about 6 o'clock p. m. There seemed to be some haste about this move.
            On the 21st reveille was sounded at 3:30 a. m. and the command started out upon the road
            at 5:30. The pace was a speedy one, few halts being made. The command passed through
            Greenville and perhaps five miles west and bivouacked for the night. On the next morning
            reveille was sounded at 3 o'clock. The Eighty-sixth had the advance and was on the road
            marching at 5 a. m. Passing through Midway without halt the column pressed on and
            reached Bull's Gap about noon and bivouacked. Here rumors flew from bivouac to  bivouac with almost lightning speed. These were various and
            varied. The war was practically over—the men of '62 were to be mustered out and
            sent home. Much excitement consequently prevailed. The command remained here at Bull's
            Gap during the day of the 23d. Were ordered aboard the cars at midnight, and the train
            rolled westward at 1 o'clock on the morning of the 24th, but only proceeded about seven
            miles, lay until after daylight, and then ran to Knoxville by 3 p. m. The train remained
            on the side track at Knoxville until bout 3 p. m. on the 25th, when it again pulled out,
            westward bound. Reached Chattanooga at 3 p. m. and remained until 5. Only running a part
            of the night daylight found the train about eight miles northwest of Stevenson, Alabama.
            During Wednesday, the 26th, the train made slow progress and reached Murfreesborough
            about 8 p. m. and finally disembarked a few miles out from Nashville about 1 o'clock a.
            m. on the 27th. After breakfast Knefler's brigade marched about two or two and a half
            miles in a northerly direction to a camping place which was finally located about 10:30,
            and camp laid off in in regular order.
          At this camp the Eighty-sixth spent the rest of its time in the service of Uncle Sam
            until duly mustered out—drilling, being inspected or reviewed, performing picket
            duty, but in a very easy slip-shod manner, as the officers and men well knew that there
            was now no armed enemy near to molest or make them afraid. The drilling and inspecting
            was probably done to prepare the men for the final Grand Review, as it seemed now quite
            certain that the days of campaigning and fighting for the Eighty-sixth were forever
            past.
          On the 29th of April came the word of the surrender of Johnston's army to General
            Sherman, as had been expected for some days. This was the climax of the collapse of the
            Confederacy, and it was simply impossible now for the South ever again to collect and
            organize an army to do battle for the cause of secession. It was thoroughly routed and
            beaten, and it recognized and acknowledged the fact. The order for the Southern soldiers
            is final and it is: "Ground arms!" Let  it be said for
            them that they were brave, but they were beaten in
            fort and in field.
          Now the Eighty-sixth had its regular Sunday inspection, company drill of week days, and
            dress parade on fine evenings. On Friday, May 5, there was company drill in the
            forenoon, and brigade review in the afternoon. The following day the men were notified
            to prepare for Grand Review, to take place on Monday, the 8th. On Sunday, the 7th, there
            was company inspection in the forenoon and brigade review in the afternoon. It rained
            Sunday night and nearly all day Monday, therefore the Grand Review was postponed.
            Tuesday morning was clear and fine and the orders were for the Review. The Eighty-sixth
            started for the review grounds about 7 o'clock a. m. The lines were fully established
            about 10 o'clock. It then waited for the reviewing officer, General George H. Thomas.
            After being reviewed in line General Thomas took his place upon the stand, the line was
            broken into columns of divisions and thus marched by the stand. This completed the
            review and the regiment was marched at once to camp. There were about 15,000 men in line
            marching in review, and it made a splendid pageant. General Thomas profusely
            complimented the Fourth corps on its soldierly bearing. It was certainly a fine
            exhibition of a military parade, precision of military movements and evolutions.
          Major General George H. Thomas on May 10 issued General Orders No. 30, in which he
            congratulated the Fourth army corps as follows: The General
                commanding the Department takes pride in conveying to the Fourth army corps the
                expression of his admiration, excited by their brilliant and martial display at the
                review of yesterday.
              As the battalions of your magnificent corps swept successively before the eye, the
                coldest heart must have warmed with interest in contemplation of those men, who had
                passed through the varied and shifting scenes of this great, modern tragedy, who had
                stemmed with unyielding breasts the rebel tide threatening to engulph the land-marks
                of Freedom; and who, bearing on their bronzed and furrowed brows the ennobling marks
                of the years of hardship, suffering and privation, undergone in defense of freedom
                and the integrity of the Union, could still preserve the light step and wear the
                cheerful expression of youth.
              Though your gay and broidered banners, wrought by dear hands  far away, were all shred and war-worn, were they not blazoned on every
                stripe with words of glory—Shiloh, Spring Hill, Stone's River, Chickamauga,
                Atlanta, Franklin, Nashville, and many other glorious names, too numerous to be
                mentioned in an order like this.
              By your prowess and fortitude you have ably done your part in restoring the golden
                boon of peace and order to your once distracted but now grateful country, and your
                Commander is at length enabled to give you a season of well earned rest.
              But soldiers, while we exult at our victories, let us not be forgetful of those
                brave, devoted hearts which, pressing in advance, throbbed their last amid the smoke
                and din of battle; nor withhold our sympathy for the afflicted wife, child, and
                mother, consigned, far off at home, to lasting, cruel grief.
          After this, the final Grand Review, there was no drilling for the Eighty-sixth. The men
            were through with that drudgery, for it became a drudgery when they never again expected
            to be called out upon the field of battle. Henceforth only picket, guard duty, and
            inspection was to be their work while they remained here.
          On Sunday, May 14, a dispatch was received announcing the capture of the arch traitor,
            Jeff Davis. This was another point made, which in the ranks of the Union army caused
            universal joy, for he was looked upon as the head and front of the offenders of those
            who had tried to disrupt the country. By many Union soldiers he was regarded as the
            devil turned loose upon the earth. Had many organizations captured him, since the
            assassination of the beloved Lincoln, they would have taken summary vengeance. But
            fortunately for Davis, and perhaps for the credit of the whole country, he fell into
            hands more humane and merciful.
          On Saturday, June 3, the officers of the regiment began making the "Muster Out" rolls.
            It was now an established fact that the Eighty-sixth was to be "mustered out" very soon
            and sent home. This was cheering news and the boys were in great glee. All felt that it
            was a good and sufficient reason for rejoicing, and fun and frolic was largely indulged
            in. On the 4th and 5th the work on the rolls was pushed, being completed on the latter
            day.
          Major General Thomas J. Wood, the commander of the 
            Fourth army corps, through his Adjutant General, Captain M. P. Bestow, issued General
            Order No. 47, dated near Nashville, Tennessee, June 6, 1865, which was in the nature of
            a farewell to the Eighty-sixth. The same order was issued to the Seventy-ninth. The
            following is the order: 
              
                
                  To the Officers and Soldiers of the Eighty-sixth Indiana
                      Volunteers:
                  The order from the War Department directing the muster out of troops whose
                    terms of service expire before a certain date, will soon terminate the official
                    relation which has so long existed between us. I contemplate the approaching
                    separation with feelings of sadness, and I cannot allow it to take place without
                    expressing my warmest thanks and sincere gratitude for the noble conduct which
                    you have ever displayed while under my command. Participation in common dangers,
                    and in privations and hardships, has united us in the bonds of indissoluble
                    friendship. I will ever cherish as among the brightest passages of my life the
                    memory of our past association. You have done your duty as good soldiers and
                    patriots, engaged from the highest motives, in the noblest of causes. You can
                    now return to your homes with the happy reflection that the mission which called
                    you into the field, namely, the suppression of the armed resistance of treason
                    and rebellion to the government, has been fully, nobly and honorably
                    accomplished. Noble soldiers, your work is finished, now rest from your labors.
                    Each one of you will carry home with you my highest esteem and kindest wishes
                    for your future welfare. May happiness, prosperity, health and success wait on
                    you throughout the remainder of your lives.
                  May your future be as happy as your military life has been glorious! To each
                    one of you, individually, and all, collectively, I bid a kind, a friendly
                    good-bye.
                  May God bless you!
                  In the afternoon, on the 6th day of June, 1865, the Eighty-sixth
                    Regiment, Indiana Volunteer Infantry, was Mustered Out of the United States
                    Service, by Captain Philip Reefy, of the Nineteenth Regiment, Ohio Veteran
                    Volunteer Infantry, Mustering Officer for the Third Division, Fourth Army Corps,
                    Army of the Cumberland.
                
              
            
          On Wednesday the 7th, Colonel George F. Dick went to the city of Nashville to make
            arrangements for procuring transportation home for the regiment. He went again on
            Thursday, the 8th, and returned before noon reporting everything all right, and that the
            start would be made that afternoon. At 12 o'clock noon, the regiment broke camp and
            marched to the city, got aboard the cars about 5 o'clock p. m.,  crossed the Cumberland river and left Edgefield at 6 p. m. The train reached
            Louisville, Kentucky, at 5 a. m. on the 9th. The regiment crossed the Ohio river and
            landed on Hoosier soil at 11 a. m. All were in great good humor and as the companies
            filed out upon the Indiana bank off the ferry boat they cheered lustily. They were
            nearing home and were heartily glad. Glad that the war was over, that the rebellion was
            crushed, and that they had lived to see the Government triumph in its great struggle,
            and to see the dawn of peace. They took a train at Jeffersonville for Indianapolis which
            place was reached about 6 o'clock p. m. on the 9th. The regiment marched directly to the
            Soldiers' Home where a good supper was provided. The following morning the regiment
            marched to the State House and were there publicly thanked by Governor Oliver P. Morton
            in behalf of the State. General George D. Wagner replied for Colonel Dick in behalf of
            the regiment, and the regimental stand of colors was placed in the archives of the
            State. Soon after the conclusion of these ceremonies the Colonel marched the regiment to
            the arsenal where it turned into the United States authorities its guns and
            accouterments. Many of the men turned in the same gun that they had drawn there three
            years before. After thus disposing of their fighting equipments the men were marched
            directly to Camp Carrington almost on the identical spot of ground on which they were
            camped when mustered into the United States service by Colonel J. S. Simonson September
            4, 1862. The 11th was Sunday and therefore nothing was done. The boys took the day easy.
            They were waiting to receive their pay.
          The Eighty-sixth entered the field with 39 commissioned officers and 917 enlisted men.
            During the latter part of 1864 it received 41 recruits, making a total of 999. Two
            commissioned officers were killed and one died from the effects of wounds. Among the
            enlisted men 238 were killed and died from disease and wounds, 48 men deserted from its
            ranks, 67 were transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps, 10 to the Engineer Corps, and 5
            to the Mississippi Marine Brigade. There were mustered out with the regiment 302 men,
            the  remainder having been discharged on account of wounds
            and other disabilities. The recruits were transferred to the Fifty-first Indiana
            regiment. Of the Indiana regiments that served only three years, the Sixty-ninth lost
            from all causes by death the largest per cent. of enlisted men, the Ninty-third the next
            largest per cent. and the Eighty-sixth the third largest per cent.
          The regiment had two Colonels, four Lieutenant Colonels, three Majors, two Adjutants,
            two Quartermasters, two Chaplains, two Surgeons, three Assistant Surgeons, twenty-three
            Captains, thirty-one First Lieutenants, twenty-eight Second Lieutenants. Of these
            thirty-nine were original appointments, and sixty-three were promotions. The total
            number of commissioned officers was one hundred and two.
          The service of the Eighty-sixth Indiana must speak for itself. It will ever remain an
            honorable page of history in the Great War of the Rebellion. Its hardships and
            privations, its marches, skirmishes, battles and sieges, were some of the most notable
            of the war. What it endured in the great march in pursuit of Bragg was certainly not
            excelled by any, and was only equaled by its new companion regiments. The forty-one of
            its dead left on the bloody field of Stone's River attests its baptismal fire. Its three
            days by Chickamauga's crimson waters and through all that sanguinary struggle have been
            told in words. Yet these but faintly paint the picture. Nothing in the history of the
            entire war takes rank with the assault of the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth on
            Missionary Ridge for indomitable, daring courage and fortitude, lying just outside of
            the enemy's works, only a ramrod's length, and fighting the enemy without giving an inch
            until the reserves approached. The siege in Chattanooga, followed by the bitter cold
            winter and semi-starvation on the bleak hills in East Tennessee were truly trying events
            and endured like Spartan heroes. Then followed the ever memorable Atlanta campaign with
            its marches, skirmishes, battles and sieges, and great tactical movements, and then in
            turn followed by the race after Hood, terminating in the glorious battle of Nashville.
            The  assault on Overton's Hill by Knefler's brigade, the
            Eighty-sixth in the advance, was almost as heroic as the assault on Missionary Ridge,
            and would have been fully as much so, if the enemy had had the courage to stay and
            fight. The history of no organization from the State of Indiana, or any State, can
            probably furnish evidence of greater fortitude than was exhibited by the Third brigade,
            Third division, Fourth army corps, of which the Eighty-sixth Indiana formed an honorable
            part.
          The glowing memories of Stone's River, Chickamauga, Missionary Ridge, Dandridge, Rocky
            Face Ridge, Resaca, Adairsville, Kingston, Cassville, New Hope Church, Pickett's Mills,
            Kenesaw Mountain, Smyrna Camp Ground, Chattahoochee River, Peach Tree Creek, Atlanta,
            Jonesboro, Lovejoy's Station, Columbia, Spring Hill, Franklin and Nashville will ever
            fill the hearts and minds of every member of the Eighty-sixth Indiana with pardonable
            pride.
          When the heroic citizen soldiers were remanded to the duties of civil life, the
            Eighty-sixth Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, passed from organic existence, to live in
            history, matched by many but surpassed by none. Many who went out with the regiment did
            not return. They were left on the hills and by the streams of the South. Their heroic
            deeds and last resting places will often be brought to mind in fond remembrance.
          
              "By fairy hands their knell is rung;
              By forms unseen their dirge is sung;
              There Honor comes, a pilgrim gray,
              To bless the turf that wraps their clay."
            
          And as the Eighty-sixth Indiana disappeared so melted away the grand regiments of all
            the States, an army strong enough to conquer a hemisphere. The heroic organizations
            merged into the mass of the people and were seen no more. The deeds of this grand army
            had filled the civilized world, and European statesmen looked on in wonder. It was one
            of the grandest armies that ever bore on its bayonet points the destines of a king or
            nation—a consolidation and embodiment of power seldom witnessed; and yet, while
            the gaze of the world was fixed upon it, it disappeared like a vision, and  when one looked for it he saw only peaceful citizens
            engaged in their usual occupations. The veterans of the rank and file, whose battle
            shout had rung over scores of bloody fields, could only be found now by name as one,
            bent over his saw and plane, another swung his scythe in the harvest field, or plied his
            humble toil along the streets. It was a marvelous sight, the grandest the world ever
            saw. It had been the people's war—the people had carried it on, and having
            finished their own work, quietly laid aside the instruments with which they had
            accomplished it, and again took up those of peaceful industry. Never did a government on
            earth exhibit such stability, and assert its superiority over all other forms, as did
            this Republican Government of ours, in the way its armies disappeared when the struggle
            was over.
          On the 12th of June, 1865, the men were paid and the Eighty-sixth disbanded. Good-byes
            were said and the boys started for their several homes. That separation was not without
            sadness. There are few ties on earth that are as strong as those that bind the hearts of
            men who so long marched, and fought and suffered together. The Eighty-sixth Indiana was
            now a memory! That was all. But if only a memory it will last as long
            as a single member of that organization survives.
          
              We've been tenting to-night on the old camp ground,—
              Thinking of days gone by;
              Of the loved and the true who left their homes
              And the tear that said, "Good-bye!"
            
          
          
          
            
              GEORGE FREDERICK DICK.
            
          
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXX.  THE TWO COLONELS.
          George Frederick Dick—A Sketch of His Early Life—Captain of a Boy's
            Military Company in Cincinnati—His Fire Company—In Business—Answers
            the First Call of the President—A Captain in the Twentieth Indiana—His
            Services in That Regiment—Made Lieutenant Colonel in the Eighty-Sixth—His
            Career With That Regiment to the Close of the War—Orville S. Hamilton—A
            Brave Man, but Wanting in Military Genius—A Bit of Secret History Never Before
            Told or Written—A Tribute to His Memory.
          
            GEORGE FREDERICK DICK.
            The man and officer, who, by his military skill, by his firmness and courage made of
              the Eighty-Sixth an organization of which they who still live, are so justly proud,
              came to the regiment near the close of the Kentucky campaign in the early winter of
              1862-1863. This officer was Lieutenant Colonel George Frederick Dick, destined soon
              thereafter to be the Colonel. He joined the regiment at Rural Hill, Tennessee, on the
              night of November 17, 1862. This was the officer who was in all of the subsequent
              history of the regiment, whether in camp or on the field, in the trenches, or in the
              storming of the enemy's works, who was to be the central figure. He it was who was to
              make, by strict discipline and thorough drill, a body of soldiers out of the raw
              material then organized into what was called a regiment.
            Colonel Dick, for such soon became his title, came to the regiment unheralded. He
              came as an utter stranger to all but a very few, and the regiment as such, had never
              even heard his name. There had been rumors that a Lieutenant Colonel had been
              commissioned, but who he was, or when he was to report for duty, was unknown. The few
              who had known him, prior to the war, had known him only as a quiet  citizen, and as a man earnestly devoted to the care of
              his mercantile pursuits. All soon knew him thoroughly as an officer, and quickly
              respected and admired him for his genuine soldierly qualities. Never in the habit of
              talking of himself, nor of exploiting his deeds, Colonel Dick was, and is, known to
              the members of the Eighty-sixth only in his identification with the history of the
              regiment subsequent to the time of joining it.
            He was not a man who had many intimate associates. His nature was too quiet and
              modest to attract the crowd, but those who thoroughly knew him, and back of his quiet
              demeanor learned the sterling qualities of his heart and head, were linked to him as
              with hooks of steel. In form and physique, he impressed the men at once as one on whom
              they could rely, and more and more, under the shock of battle, on the march and in
              camp or bivouac, did this impression of his worth as a soldier, and his ability as an
              officer, grow upon officers and men. After he assumed command of the regiment it was
              not long until officers and men alike learned that a master hand held the sword.
            To portray the exact condition of the regiment at the time Colonel Dick came to it,
              both as to its condition from a sanitary point, and as to discipline and knowledge of
              the duties of soldiers, but little need be said. It is a sufficient to say that from
              the moment that he took command on the battle-field of Stone's River there was a
              change for the better. New life was infused, new hopes were inspired, and an ambition
              took complete hold of all to do something, to be something, to make a record as
              soldiers, that had not before existed with the great mass of the officers and men.
              Some, too, there were of the officers who found that they were not fitted to be
              soldiers in the highest and best sense of the word, and these retired. As the fact has
              been recorded that Colonel Dick came into the actual command of the regiment at
              Stone's River on the morning that the battle opened, let the reader now go backward in
              his career, and learn of his early life.
            George Frederick Dick was born at Tiffin, Seneca county,  Ohio, February 22, 1829. He was of German parentage, but from his childhood and
              into his manhood was, as he will remain to the close of his life, intensely American
              in all his thoughts and actions. When but two years old his parents moved from Tiffin
              to Cincinnati. Here he grew into manhood. The education he received was such as was to
              be gained from the public schools in Cincinnati during his early boyhood. Although not
              what is termed an educated man, he has ever been a reader of the best authors when the
              time could be taken from business hours, has always been a close observer of men, and
              has at all times kept himself thoroughly informed as to current events. In his boyhood
              he was an enthusiast on military matters, taking a deep interest in the military
              organizations then existing in the city of Cincinnati. With his boy associates he was
              regarded as a leader, and his opinions on military affairs were law to them.
            When he was in his sixteenth year, a juvenile military company was organized, known
              as the Cincinnati Cadets, and Fred Dick, as he was then called, was chosen as the
              Captain. He at once accepted the position and assumed the responsibilities. Faithfully
              he discharged the duties of Captain, and he was fully as willing to perform his
              appointed share of the hard work incident thereto, as he was to bear the honors of the
              position. Those who have known Colonel Dick in his maturer years, after he had put
              aside the mimic soldier, and had had the responsibilities of the actual soldier and
              officer, can easily imagine the firmness and thoroughness with which he handled the
              Cincinnati Cadets. Those who have seen him in the actual charge and shock of battle,
              and have seen the firmness with which his teeth were shut upon each other, and have
              heard his clear, sharp and commanding voice ring out in the supreme moment, can well
              imagine the young Captain as he appeared at the front of his miniature soldiers, and
              can well understand why the Cadets made so fine a record as "play soldiers," why many
              of them made in later years such magnificent records during the four years of war,
              where balls as well as powder were used, and actually fought and died on the field. In
              all that pertained to his early military  company, and
              kindred organizations he took the deepest interest, little dreaming, save as a boy may
              dream, that he was taking the primary lessons that were in after years to make him a
              thorough military man, and to give him as excellent a record as was won by any officer
              during the war occupying a similar position. As he himself has said, "This little
              experience proved very useful to me in after years when I assumed the active duties of
              a soldier, in actual and not mimic warfare."
            In whatever position he found himself among organized bodies of men, he was chosen by
              his associates as the chief or commander. The fire companies at the time he was
              residing in Cincinnati, after he had grown out of boyhood and into his young and
              vigorous manhood, were independent, or volunteer companies. These were composed of a
              class of young men who hesitated at nothing when duty pointed the way. They were ready
              to fight the fire fiend either singly, or to brave the greatest dangers in company
              with their associates, whenever life or property was to be saved from death or
              destruction. In one of these fire companies George F. Dick, as soon as he was of
              sufficient age, found himself as a member. Never reckless, always discreet, yet never
              under the most trying circumstances hesitating or faltering, he was soon chosen as the
              Captain. Here again, as when Captain of the Cadets, he enforced the most stringent
              discipline, and through his management Dick's Fire Company was one of the best of its
              day in Cincinnati. Not only was the drill of the Cadets, and the
              fire company of use to him in future years, but it was in these organizations that he
              first began to study human nature. After all, this knowledge of men, reading their
              characters individually and when brought together in large bodies, when combined with
              military skill, is one of the very chiefest things tending to success in a military
              commander. Colonel Dick had this knowledge of men to a remarkable degree in his career
              as an army officer. He seemed to be able to read every officer and man of his regiment
              as one would read an open book. There was not an officer or private who came under his
              command who did not  instinctively feel that Colonel
              Dick knew exactly his make-up. This was especially true at the storming of Missionary
              Ridge, where every man from right to left of the regiment felt more than words can
              tell it, that Colonel Dick was watching his every movement in that, the most brilliant
              charge ever made by soldiers of any land or in any war.
            After arriving at that age which required that he should turn his attention to the
              practical affairs of life, he entered business in Cincinnati as a tobacconist, and
              remained in that city in the tobacco trade until 1855, when he removed to Attica,
              Indiana, and there again went into the same business, and so continued until the
              breaking out of the war in 1861.
            At the first call for troops by President Lincoln in April, 1861, roused by his
              patriotic impulses, he at once closed up his business affairs to answer the call.
              While he was "putting his house in order" for the great conflict, he was at the same
              time, in company with others, engaged in the formation of a company for the first
              three months' service. The company was speedily raised and George F. Dick was
              unanimously chosen as Captain. As rapidly as this first company of Captain Dick had
              been organized, the rush to arms had been so great and so rapid that upon tendering
              their services to Governor Morton, there was no place for them, and their offer was
              rejected. However much the disappointment at being unable to be among the first 75,000
              Union troops, the organization held together, waiting for the first opportunity that
              might be presented, to be mustered.
            These enthusiastic and patriotic citizens did not have to wait very long, for on May
              3, 1861, the President issued his second call and assigned the quota to each State. In
              filling the quota for Indiana a camp was opened at Lafayette, and here were gathered
              the companies that were to contribute a regiment, and were in July mustered into the
              service as the Twentieth Indiana Volunteers, for three years' service. Captain George
              F. Dick's company was mustered in as Company D, and he was commissioned and mustered
              as its first Captain July 22, 1861. The Twentieth Indiana was almost immediately
              ordered to the front and left Indianapolis on  August 2,
              1861, going to Maryland, near Baltimore, where it was placed on duty guarding the
              Northern Central railroad, a branch of the Pennsylvania road, which was such an
              important factor to the Army of the Potomac during the war. The duty of guarding a
              railroad was of very short duration, however, for in September, 1861, the regiment was
              moved to Hatteras Inlet, North Carolina, and soon after landing was sent to the north
              end of Hatteras Bank, forty miles away from the fortifications, and from supports of
              any kind. At this place began the active military work of Captain Dick. Here the
              regiment was attacked by a much larger force, and had a severe fight, and although
              greatly outnumbered it maintained its position until it received orders to fall back,
              when it returned to the fortifications. The regiment was then sent to Newport News
              where it participated in the engagement between the Merrimac, Cumberland and Congress,
              March 8, 1862. On the 10th of May this regiment participated in the capture of
              Norfolk, Virginia, after which it was ordered to join the Army of the Potomac, on the
              Peninsula. On June 8, 1862, the Twentieth Indiana was assigned to Jamieson's brigade,
              Kearney's division, Heintzleman's corps, and took an active part in the battle of Fair
              Oaks. On the 25th of June, 1862, it was engaged at the battle of the Orchards,
              sustaining a loss of 144 officers and men in killed, wounded and missing. The regiment
              covered the retreat of the Third army corps in the celebrated Seven Days' Fight,
              participating in all the battles of that campaign, its loss being heavy.
            The Twentieth regiment formed a portion of the flank of the Army of the Potomac
              during its march across the Peninsula to Yorktown. It was moved to Alexandria, and was
              engaged in the fights along the Rappahannock, and in the battle of Manassas Plains,
              where its loss was great, the Colonel, William L. Brown, being among the killed. On
              September 1, 1862, the regiment was severely engaged in the battle of Chantilly.
            This much of the service of the Twentieth Indiana has been given for the reason that
              its history until October, 1862,  was in part made by
              the subject of this sketch, Captain George F. Dick, and his company being constantly
              on duty with the regiment. He was not, however the captain of the company during all
              of the time. On August 30, 1862, he was commissioned as Major and was present and
              served in that capacity until October 23, 1862, at which time he was commissioned as
              Lieutenant Colonel of the Eighty-sixth Indiana.
            It has been shown by the action of the Twentieth Indiana, that Colonel George F. Dick
              came to this regiment with a record of which any soldier might well feel proud.
              Indiana had many gallant regiments. All, as the opportunity offered, proved themselves
              worthy the State and worthy the Nation, but neither Indiana nor any other State had a
              better fighting regiment than was the Twentieth Indiana from its first entry on the
              battle-field until it was finally mustered out at the expiration of the war. The
              Eighty-sixth has felt especially proud of the Twentieth and its grand record because
              it gave to it an officer who led it into a record that for service, hard work,
              brilliant fighting and magnificent victories will compare with any regiment that
              served during the war. It is to this officer that the credit is due.
            October 21, 1862, George F. Dick was commissioned as Lieutenant Colonel of the
              Eighty-sixth regiment, was mustered on November 1 following, and joined his command
              soon after. He, an officer thoroughly conversant with the duties of a soldier, must
              have felt heartsick when he found a regiment without drill, without discipline,
              without anything that could be called military, save and except the fact that it had
              been mustered into the service of the United States. If, however, he felt wholly
              disappointed and discouraged, the officers and men were most thoroughly pleased at his
              coming. True, he was then only the second officer, but it was a great relief and
              assurance to have one man at the head of the regiment, who was an officer, competent
              to command.
            No State secrets are being divulged, when the fact is stated that no one knew so
              fully as Colonel Dick the immense responsibility he assumed and the great burden that
              was  placed upon his shoulders, when he surrendered his
              commission as Major of the Twentieth, to accept the commission as Lieutenant Colonel
              of the Eighty-sixth. To those most conversant with the facts it is well known by
              subsequent events that had he remained with the Twentieth the honors that would have
              come to him would have been as great, if not greater than those attained with the
              Eighty-sixth and the Army of the Cumberland. It was good fortune to this regiment that
              he did just as he did.
            On January 14, 1863, George F. Dick was commissioned by Governor Morton as Colonel of
              the regiment, and was mustered as such February 9, 1863. His conduct at the battle of
              Stone's River has been fully detailed in the chapter devoted to that battle and it is
              not necessary to repeat it here. Up to the time of entering Murfreesboro, after the
              battle, the regiment had had no instructions that amounted to anything like a thorough
              regimental drill, for two reasons: The first was that there had been no officer in
              command competent, and the second was that from the date of its organization until it
              entered Murfreesboro and settled down in camp, it had been so continuously on the
              move, that such training was impossible. Yet the regiment had been in proximity to the
              battle of Perryville, and there had been no day after Perryville until the last of
              December, 1862, when it was not expected that it would be brought into an engagement.
              Then came the terrible battle of Stone's River, where the regiment, although
              undrilled, and undisciplined in every way, was taken through that engagement and won
              the encomiums of the brigade and division commanders for its gallant conduct. That
              this is true, is due to the courage and military skill of the commander of the
              regiment through that fearful "baptism of fire." True it was, as heretofore stated,
              that the loss at the battle of Stone's River by this regiment was appalling, but it is
              due to Colonel Dick to say that no one could have handled a regiment of raw troops
              better, and few could have done so well.
            It is not stating the condition of affairs too strongly when it is said that a great
              portion of the Army of the Cumberland  was simply armed
              men. They were not soldiers. They had had no opportunity for drill, nothing
              approaching careful instructions had been given, and no discipline had been enforced.
              Well it was for the Army of the Cumberland that the time had arrived when all of these
              things could be imparted. What were then termed the "old regiments," the regiments
              that were organized in 1861, were but very little better in point of drill, discipline
              and camp and picket duty than were the regiments that came into the service under the
              same call with the Eighty-sixth, and were through the battle of Stone's River getting
              their first experience on a bloody field. Of the drill and discipline which came so
              opportunely at Murfreesboro mention has been made in relating the experiences of the
              regiment during the six months' camping in and about that town. This is said here in
              connection with what has been written of Colonel Dick, no regiment in the camps of the
              Army of the Cumberland had a more efficient drill-master than was he. For more than a
              year he had been in an army that had had for its commander one of the best organizers
              and tacticians ever produced by the American army. Drill and discipline were especial
              essentials with the Army of the Potomac, with which Colonel Dick had seen service. It
              was the drill and discipline of that army under McClellan that made it so effective
              under others who were commanders and fighters. Colonel Dick was a tactician, and a
              drill-master who could impart the knowledge he had acquired to others, and when the
              time came under him for the regiment to go into active campaigns, no other regiment
              was better prepared for the conflict.
            Before moving from Murfreesboro, July 5, 1863, Colonel Dick had been assigned to the
              command of the Second brigade, Third Division, Twenty-first army corps, and retained
              command thereof until after the organization of the Army of the Cumberland while at
              Chattanooga, after the battle of Chickamauga.
            Colonel Dick was a good regimental commander, and he was equally "at home" in the
              position of brigade commander. Every detail necessary to the management and
              effectiveness  of the brigade was scrupulously observed.
              At the battle of Chickamauga he and his brigade were the very first infantry ordered
              out when the Confederate forces made their first appearance on September 18, 1863, in
              front of General Thomas J. Wood, near Lee & Gordon's Mills. On the night of that
              day it was the wise and soldierly work of Colonel Dick with his brigade, that in the
              night fight on the east side of the Viniard farm, that prevented the Confederates from
              passing around the right of General Wilder's brigade, and defeated the plans by which
              the rebel General, Bragg, expected to gain possession of the LaFayette road, cut
              Rosecrans' army in two, shut him out from Chattanooga, and destroy the Army of the
              Cumberland by detail before that army could be reunited. General Wilder says of the
              situation that night, that had it not been for timely assistance rendered by Colonel
              Dick on that night, the plans of General Bragg might have succeeded and all would have
              been lost. Through the battle that raged again on the 19th and 20th at Chickamauga,
              Colonel Dick with his brigade bore a conspicuous part. General VanCleve, who commanded
              the division to which Colonel Dick's brigade was attached, in his report on the battle
              of Chickamauga, especially commends him to special notice for good conduct during this
              battle.
            After the battle of Chickamauga, the Eighty-sixth with the Army of the Cumberland,
              was besieged in Chattanooga. During all of this siege Colonel Dick was with the
              regiment sharing the hardships and dangers of that siege. His larder was as illy
              supplied as that of any private, but each day he was through the camp cheering and
              encouraging all to endure their hardships like good soldiers. On the picket line he
              bore his part when duty called, never shrinking from any service that was demanded.
              When the time came to move out of the works and attack the enemy there was not a
              regiment that received that order that formed more quickly than did the
              Eighty-sixth.
            On the memorable 25th day of November, 1863, when the Army of the Cumberland showed
              such an example of bravery and soldierly bearing as never had been surpassed in the
                 world's annals, Colonel Dick was found passing up and
              down his lines after they had been formed for that wonderful charge, encouraging his
              men. Those who saw him that day as the troops waited for the signal of six guns from
              Orchard Knob will never forget the quiet manner of the Colonel, nor will it be
              forgotten how firm and clear came the words of his commands when the signal was given.
              It was a "supreme moment" for the regiment as it stood in line that afternoon to the
              left of Orchard Knob. It was a terrible ordeal through which officers and men were
              passing.
            The morning of November 25, 1863, had opened with the guns of Sherman over on the
              left where he had made a crossing of the river, and was then charging the enemy with
              all the terrible rattle and roar of battle in the attempt to turn Bragg's right and
              force him back off Missionary Ridge. Hooker on the right had forced the enemy off
              Lookout mountain, and the din of his guns told the Army of the Cumberland as plainly
              as words that he was being forced back by the right of the Union army across the
              valley towards Rossville Gap, and that the crescent at the opening of the battle on
              the 23d and 24th was giving place to a straight line. Now along the entire front, from
              Hooker on the right down through the valley until Sherman at the river was reached,
              came the rattle and din of the skirmish lines of both armies, until, at times, it
              seemed almost like volleys from compact lines of battle. So the storm raged, from dawn
              until the lines of battle of the Army of the Cumberland had been changed from behind
              their works to the front of them preparatory to the charge that was to be made over
              the line of rifle pits thick set on the narrow plain, and on, and on
              to—where?
            This was the question that every officer and man asked himself as he stood in that
              new line of battle; and as the question found its place in his mind he looked and
              listened, and as he listened the din of the skirmishers ceased, and there settled down
              on friend and foe that awful, that fearful silence that precedes the terrible storm
              and tornado. As the men realized the stillness and looked, they almost prayed  for the noise once more that they might not be able to
              look—for looking—in the deathly stillness, what did they of the long lines
              of blue see? They saw in their immediate front the most formidable line of skirmish
              pits, that they had ever seen, and each pit was filled with armed men. Looking beyond
              a little further at the foot of the ridge was a line of earth works, thick set with
              men, men who it was well known were fully alive to the importance of holding their
              position. The eye then mounting upward saw at the summit of the Ridge, eight hundred
              feet higher, the final line of battle, thick set with artillery. It took but an
              instant, the rapid glance of the eye, to take in all this scene and to realize the
              fearful task to be performed in obeying the orders that had been received. Both armies
              were for a moment dazed by the spectacle that met their vision. As far as the eye
              could reach, up and down that valley, could be seen two great armies standing face to
              face in battle array. As the men of both sides caught the view each seemed for the
              instant to be paralyzed. The eyes of the men of the Union army had, in a swift glance,
              swept the plain and hill side, resting but an instant upon the battle lines bristling
              with armed men and cannon at the crest, then a glance toward Orchard Knob from which
              was to come the signal of six guns for the charge, the head dropped forward, and the
              stillness of death reigned over that portion of the field. Each man fully conscious of
              the fact, that when that signal should be given and the instant the charge should
              begin hundreds upon hundreds would fall, to fill the soldiers' grave.
            In this supreme moment and as the men stood with heads bowed, and faces blanched in
              the presence of the gathering storm of death, Colonel Dick passed along the line of
              his regiment as fully alive to the terrible situation that then existed as any officer
              or man in that front line of battle, nay more fully aware of this than any of them,
              and although his face was pale through the tan of hard service, his voice never
              faltered, and the tones came as clear and distinct as though upon dress parade, as he
              gave the final instructions or spoke a word of cheer, and urged a faithful  discharge of duty, and here and there he grasped the hand
              of an officer and the hands clasped tightly in a friendship that is born only of the
              battle-field, but no word was spoken, only a clasp of the hand, a look into the eyes,
              and the hands were loosed, but to the day of death will that touch remain.
            To the right of the Eighty-sixth stood the Seventy-ninth Indiana Regiment, the two
              regiments being consolidated, and forming the front or charging line of the brigade,
              both regiments as consolidated being under the command of Colonel Fred Knefler of the
              Seventy-ninth, he being the senior officer, and therefore entitled to the position,
              but Colonel Dick had the immediate command of the Eighty-sixth. These two regiments
              stood at an order waiting for the signal, and yet almost unconscious of all that
              surrounded them. The period of waiting was not of long duration as counted by the
              minutes of the clock, but to those who had the care and responsibility of commands,
              whether of company or regiment, the minutes seemed to have grown into hours, so
              terrible was the suspense in connection with the full realization of the fury of that
              storm of battle that was soon to break. Now comes the first shot of the six guns that
              are to be the signal for the charge, and with the sound of that gun that long line of
              men in blue were aroused like one who is startled out of a dream. All eyes were turned
              toward and over the plain and from the foot of the Ridge to the battle line at its
              summit. As the third and remaining shots of the signal rang in quick succession, as
              quickly were the men nerved for that charge which shall go down into history as the
              most brilliant charge of ancient or modern warfare. When the final shot of the signal
              was to have come the men had caught the cadence of the shots, and although the primer
              exploded the gun was not discharged, but at that instant the voice of Colonel Dick
              rang out clear and strong in the beginning of the command, but he had only pronounced
              the word "Forward," when the remainder of the command was lost in the shouts of the
              men as they started on the run for the enemy's works. Then as that shout went up there
              came from the line in the plain, the line at the foot of the Ridge and down  from that topmost line on the crest of the Ridge, which
              had been so quiet, the concentrated fire, of musketry and artillery, the pent up
              flood-gates of death thrown wide open. Men fell about wounded, mangled and killed.
              Great gaps were made in the lines, yet onward, with cheer upon cheer, went the
              charging column, Colonels Dick and Knefler, each cheering and encouraging the men, as
              onward they pushed through the storm of leaden hail.
            The men of the two regiments vied each with the other which should first reach the
              works of the enemy, as side by side they crossed the works in the plain and again at
              the foot of the Ridge. There was no halt but renewing, their cheers, onward and upward
              they started for the line of works at the top. On and on, upward and yet higher,
              officers and men, each and all cheering and repeating the commands of the Colonels,
              "Forward! Forward!" until at last close up to the works, under the guns of the foe,
              these two regiments alone, far in advance of the lines to the right and left, the only
              portion of that long line that had started in the charge, that had not been compelled
              to halt or turn back, now halted, and laid down to gather strength and recover breath
              for the final and desperate contest for possession of the last line of works. These
              men, lying close under the guns of the Confederates, could only send a quick glance
              down the way by which they had climbed through a storm of death to where they then
              lay, and in that quick glance they caught a glimpse of the lines of the reserves that
              were coming over the plain, and could see the troops of the right and left of their
              line, fighting their way on up toward their places on the right and left of the
              Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana.
            By the time these advancing lines were in supporting distance the two Indiana
              regiments that had outstripped their comrades, became restless lest they should have
              the credit they had thus far earned, taken by some other, and that they should not
              continue to lead to the finish. Once more the command rang out to the Seventy-ninth
              and Eighty-sixth, "Fix, bayonets! Forward! Charge, bayonets!" and  almost as quickly as the command was given, the men were on their feet and
              did not again halt or look back until the works were reached and gained, and the stars
              and stripes of these two Indiana regiments, riddled and torn by shot and shell, were
              planted on the enemy's works, and the enemy in their front was fleeing from the field.
              The lines on the right and left pressed on in their positions close after the
              regiments of Knefler and Dick, and the orders given before the troops moved out from
              their works were obeyed, and the victory was won.
            Brigadier General Samuel Beatty in his report of the battle of Missionary Ridge, in
              speaking of the regiment among others, says of the Commander: In recounting the operations of my command in the advancing of the lines of
                  the 23d, and the charging of Missionary Ridge on the 25th, I have to compliment
                  Colonel Fred Knefler, Colonel George F. Dick * * * for the discipline and
                  efficiency of their troops, and for the gallant style with which each vied with
                  the other in doing their utmost to secure a victory to our arms. The advance of
                  the Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana was strongly resisted by the enemy, but
                  led by their gallant Commanders, and supported by the advance of the Thirteenth
                  and Fifty-ninth Ohio regiments in splendid style, succeeded in first planting the
                  National flag on the rebel works at the summit of Missionary Ridge."
            Colonel Knefler, in his report of the battle, Missionary Ridge, says: "I cannot close this without making my acknowledgements and
                  thanking Colonel George F. Dick, of the Eighty-sixth Indiana Volunteers, for the
                  valuable assistance rendered me in commanding the two regiments while consolidated
                  during the battle and from the time we left our camp."
            The foregoing has been written in connection with the sketch of Colonel Dick, because
              under his command at this battle, the Eighty-sixth Indiana enrolled its name in the
              annals of the Nation in letters of glory and light that shall never grow dim. In this
              battle more than all others, this regiment glories and is justly proud. It was one of
              the five decisive battles of the greatest war of modern times. In this great battle,
              in the most magnificent and brilliant charge in all the world's history, this regiment
              was in the front line,  and with the Seventy-ninth, led
              the charge of the grandest army of citizen soldiers that was ever brought together. It
              led on that day, in the sight of all there gathered, to a victory that could not be
              disputed, and it led with a gallantry that could not be gainsaid or doubted. It wrote
              its record that day for all time before the eyes and in sight of the heroes of the
              Nineteenth Century.
            For another reason has so much been said of the battle of Missionary Ridge. The men
              of this regiment might have been returned home at the close of the war, as they did,
              but they might have come home without the honor that now clusters about the name of
              this regiment for having led in the charge on Missionary Ridge had it not been for the
              personal interest that Colonel George F. Dick took in building up its name in those
              matters which bring honor and renown, and which make every man who ever marched after
              its drum beat, or with its flag, feel proud of the fact, and count it as an honorable
              distinction. Had it not been for the earnest stand taken by Colonel Dick, and his most
              strenuous, but respectful opposition,this regiment would have been assigned to duty as
              provost guards. Had this been done, although it might have been a life of great ease
              as compared with the service that was rendered, yet it would have been an inglorious
              soldier record after it was all over, and every man would have regretted it so long as
              life remained. Colonel Dick believed, and rightly, that the place for this regiment
              was in the front, and he complimented every officer and member of the regiment when he
              gave it credit for being a fighting regiment, and insisted that it be permitted to
              remain in active work with the Army of the Cumberland.
            It is not the purpose of the authors of this book to go into full details of each
              battle in which the regiment was commanded by Colonel Dick, and shall only cursorily
              mention the facts. After the battle of Missionary Ridge Colonel Dick was with and in
              command of his regiment through all the long and tedious marches which followed, from
              Chattanooga to Knoxville to the relief of Burnside then besieged by Longstreet, and
              then to Strawberry Plains, and Dandridge  and back again
              to Strawberry Plains, thence to Maryville, and from there again back over the same
              route to New Market, Greenville and so through that entire winter of hard marching and
              hard service, until in the latter part of April 1864, the regiment and corps rejoined
              the army near Cleveland, Tennessee, preparatory to entering upon the Atlanta campaign.
              During all of the hardships of the East Tennessee campaign, through snow, and ice, and
              mud, and rain, Colonel Dick shared with the men of his command their trials,
              privations and hardships.
            Entering upon the Atlanta campaign on May 7, 1864, he was always ready for duty, and
              was with his regiment day and night until on the 27th of May, 1864, in the battle of
              Pickett's Mills, Georgia, he received a severe flesh wound in the hip from a piece of
              shell, and was carried to the hospital. A leave of absence was granted him for thirty
              days and at the close of the period, although yet suffering from the wound, he was
              again at the head of his regiment for duty.
            On through the Atlanta campaign to its close he was present every day taking his part
              in every engagement. Back through Georgia and Alabama into Tennessee, when the
              Confederate General Hood moved around the flank of Sherman's army—in the battles
              of Columbia, Spring Hill, and Franklin, and again at the glorious battle of Nashville,
              taking part in the overthrow, and annihilation of Hood's army, his voice was heard in
              command of the regiment.
            From Nashville to Huntsville, Alabama, in the pursuit of the broken and scattered
              remnant of the Confederate army, he rejoiced with his command in the final destruction
              of an army before which the regiment had stood in battle array, and had fought on
              every field from the Ohio river to Lovejoy's, Georgia, covering a period of over two
              years. Then again into East Tennessee from Huntsville with the Fourth army corps,
              ready to co-operate with Grant's army, in the final issues of the war.
            During all of this time, let it be said to the credit of the Eighty-sixth Indiana
              regiment, its Colonel had never been rebuked for failure to perform his duty, but on
              the contrary,  had been complimented by his superior
              officers for his faithfulness and efficiency. Not only Colonel Dick, but the regiment,
              and each company and member of the regiment, shared in the honor that was given to
              him. Honoring him, was and is honoring the regiment. Let the comrades of the
              Eighty-sixth Indiana look back over each and every event in the regiment from the time
              that Colonel George F. Dick took command, until the day the regiment was mustered out
              at the close of the war, and there is not one single incident, great or small,
              connected with his commandership for which any member of the regiment need blush or
              apologize. On the contrary all may justly feel proud that they were members of a
              regiment under such leadership. On March 13, 1865, in recognition of his services, he
              was brevetted a Brigadier General by Congress.
            Thus far mention has been made of Colonel Dick as a military man, and commander only.
              A few words of him as a man and a citizen, and the pleasant duty is done. If Colonel
              Dick was a thorough and efficient officer in the field, he was at the same time a
              conscientious and upright man. Now and then charges were made against other officers,
              that whether true in the whole or in part, did not bring credit to those officers,
              either as officers or men. But during his whole term of service there was never
              anything discreditable charged against him. There was never by himself or on the part
              of any connected with his headquarters at any time or place, any intoxication or
              excess. He was always the courteous gentleman, as well as the thorough officer.
            At the close of the war, wearing not only the honors of a Colonel, but of Brevet
              Brigadier General, he laid aside his sword and took up the peaceful pursuits of a
              private citizen. Much to the regret of his friends and comrades of Indiana, he removed
              his residence to Bloomington, Illinois, and has resided there ever since. In April,
              1873, he was appointed Postmaster of Bloomington by President Grant, and held the
              position by reappointment for twelve years, or three full terms. During all of these
              twelve years in office his record for the faithful performance of duty was, as it had
              been in  the army, beyond all possibility of censure,
              complete and thorough.
            After retiring from the position of Postmaster he engaged in business pursuits, and
              has been honored and respected by all who have known him. He has been, since the
              formation of the Eighty-sixth Indiana Regimental Association, the President of the
              Association, and has shown his love and appreciation for his former companions in arms
              by being present at each and every annual meeting.
            If any one could possibly have a doubt as to the warm attachment that is felt for
              Colonel Dick by survivors of the regiment, it would need but a glance into one of the
              reunions of the regiment to have such doubt removed.
            Colonel Dick's domestic relations were none the less happy than the ties that existed
              between him and his military family. He was married July 14, 1853, to Miss Anna
              Mayers, at Cincinnati, a woman of superior Christian virtues, and whose life abounded
              in deeds of kindness, charity and affection. To them nine children were born, eight of
              whom died in infancy. Mrs. Dick died November 30, 1878. In all his bereavements
              Colonel Dick was the same true man and bore them in quiet resignation. In more recent
              years he was married to Mrs. Emma Kimball, and the afternoon of his life is being
              spent in that rest which comes to the deserving.
            The years are creeping on toward old age, but the heart of Colonel Dick beats as
              strongly as ever in love for the men of his command who followed the flag in its
              campaigns and battles, and his sympathies will ever flow to those who bear the scars
              won in honorable warfare, and with each Memorial day, bright, yet sad, with its
              garlands of roses, he remembers those whose life went out under the folds of the flag
              that the Nation might live.
            In the long list of those faithful soldiers of the Nation in her hour of peril, none
              deserve a higher place than GEORGE FREDERICK
                DICK, Colonel Eighty-sixth Indiana Regiment.
          
          
          
            ORVILLE S. HAMILTON.
            In the opening chapters of this history, in the account of the organization, the fact
              was mentioned that Orville S. Hamilton was commissioned as Colonel. Those who had had
              practical experience in the army, doing actual service, were not long in learning that
              there were officers and there were officers. Much has been said by political
              demagogues in derision and attempted defamation of officers of the army, yet to all
              who were good soldiers this vituperation has injured the speaker rather than the
              parties sought to be injured. There were those, however, as a matter of fact, who were
                commissioned as officers and sent to the field, who, for various
              reasons should never have been selected for the positions which they were not able to
              fill. It does not necessarily follow that these were bad men, nor that they were not
              sincerely patriotic. In many instances they lacked simply the ability to learn
              military principles and failed utterly to master the drill, or were unable to impart
              their knowledge to those under them.
            Every experienced soldier, whether officer or enlisted man, will very readily concede
              that wherever he met a company he could readily tell by the appearance of the
              organization whether or not it was well officered. True, it was and ever will be, that
              no one could be an officer without men, and it was equally true that no men could be
              good, reliable soldiers without thoroughly competent and reliable
              company officers. The men by their numbers gave the officer the opportunity to receive
              his commission, but the officer made the thoroughly efficient
              soldier. Take men in the mass, undrilled and undisciplined, and mankind, whether in
              bodies of a hundred or of thousands, are not dissimilar in the qualities necessary for
              good soldiers. Companies did effective work and won the name of brave soldiers because
              of this training and for the reason they had confidence in the man or men who
              commanded them. If this proposition be true in regard to the company, then it is true in more than a ten fold ratio when applied to the
              regiment. In all the history of the war the instance can scarcely be found where the
                 enlisted man, if he was a good soldier, found fault
              or complained of discipline or drill when he knew that his commander was competent on
              the drill ground, and brave, watchful and intelligent as to his duties when on the
              field in action. It was necessary, however, that all of these soldierly qualities,
              courage, firmness, and military knowledge should be combined in the man to make the
              officer. It did not take even the unpracticed eye of the newly organized Eighty-sixth
              Indiana very long to realize that, although a commission as Colonel had been issued to
              a man for that office, there was in fact no Colonel. There was a nominal commander
              only.
            The story of the displacement of Colonel Hamilton in command of the regiment has
              never been told or printed. The special matters that led to the relievement of Colonel
              Hamilton at Stone's River and placing Colonel Dick in command were then unknown and
              unsuspected by either. It is not believed that Colonel Hamilton up to the day of his
              death knew of the manner in which it was brought about. There were a number of line
              officers present that morning who were not taken by surprise when the change came.
              There are but a very few of the number alive to-day who were in the secret, but the
              time that has elapsed since that memorable day has removed the pledge of absolute
              secrecy then given from the lips of the few who remain. There was no mutiny, nor
              conspiracy to do a wrong, but the belief that the time to demand a change in the
              commandership of the regiment had crystalized into quiet action on the part of quite a
              number of the officers. Every officer was fully convinced that a great battle was at
              hand. Bragg had been driven down from the Ohio river through Kentucky and into
              Tennessee, and had taken his position on ground of his own choosing to give Rosecrans
              battle. It did not require a great military genius, to realize this fact, and that the
              battle would be hotly contested. Colonel Hamilton could not handle
              the regment. It was believed that Colonel Dick could. The name of the regiment and the
              lives of the men were at stake. But little was known of the articles of war, although
              all  realized that care must be taken. The plan was
              arranged secretly. It was decided to go to General VanCleve, who was then commanding
              the division of which the regiment formed a part, lay the facts before him, ask him to
              remove Colonel Hamilton in some way, and place Colonel Dick in command. In conformity
              with these plans, before daylight of the morning of the opening of the battle these
              officers quietly assembled just outside of the bivouac of the regiment, and started
              for General VanCleve's headquarters not far distant. On the way, for some reason best
              known to the older heads, the youngest officer in years and as an officer, was
              selected to present the case to the General. On arrival at the General's tent it was
              found that he was already up and dressed for the duties of the day. The sentinel at
              the headquarters challenged as they approached. The countersign was given, and as they
              reached the tent the old General stepped out, and in his kindly manner asked the cause
              of the visitation. The officer selected to speak stepped forward and began his
              statement, but he only succeeded in uttering the first sentence which sufficiently
              disclosed the purport of the visit, when he interrupted and stopped any further words
              by saying, "Not another word, gentlemen, not another word. You certainly do not
              realize the dangerous position in which you are placing yourselves. Go back to your
              regiment, go at once." Crest fallen and sick at heart these officers started to
              return. After they had gone but a few steps an orderly came hurrying up and said the
              General wished to see the spokesman of the party. This officer on returning was told
              by the General that he would look after the interest of the regiment, that all would
              turn out for the best, and that he would be along the line at daylight. At daybreak
              the entire army was formed in line of battle, and so stood in line until after
              daylight, when it was discovered that General VanCleve, with his Assistant Adjutant
              General, were coming down the line and stopping at the different regiments when some
              command would be given, the movement executed and then resume its position in line as
              before. As it came nearer it could be better understood. The Colonel of each regiment
                 as he was reached was directed to give some certain
              command, this command being changed. The explanation of the movement was required to
              be given before the men were permitted to attempt the execution. General VanCleave and
              the brigade commander, Colonel Fyffe, finally reached the Eighty-sixth Indiana, when
              he stated to Colonel Hamilton that he was testing his regiment so that he might be
              satisfied that the officers and men could change their formation, if it should be
              necessary, in action. He then said: "Colonel, you will 'Change front forward on first
              company.' Give the commands. But before your regiment undertakes to execute the
              movement explain it fully so that there can be no mistake. Now give the command:
              'Change front forward on first company.' Give the instructions as I have directed."
              Colonel Hamilton gave the command as directed, but there he stopped. Then was heard
              the voice of the old General: "Instruct your regiment, Colonel. They are new men.
              Instruct them, Colonel." Again the Colonel gave the command, "Change front forward on
              first company." And again he stopped more confused than before. Again came the words
              of the General, "Instruct your men; instruct your men." The third time the Colonel
              gave the command, but this time he was excited and confused beyond measure, and the
              sharp tones struck his ears: "Colonel, you must obey my orders;
              instruct your men how to execute the movement." The Colonel broke down completely,
              called in a confused and utterly dazed manner for the Lieutenant Colonel, and
              unbuckling his sword belt turned on his horse, gave the sword to the Assistant
              Adjutant General, dismounted, and the command of the regiment then by order of the
              General devolved upon the then Lieutenant Colonel Dick.
            In what has been said of the Eighty-sixth Indiana regiment and its first Colonel, all
              intention to cast any reflection upon the bravery or honesty of purpose of Colonel
              Orville S. Hamilton is most emphatically disavowed. No one who knew Colonel Hamilton
              ever doubted either his bravery or his earnest desire to do all within his power, both
              as a man and an officer, to make his regiment all that it should have  been. More than this, the writer, from personal
              intercourse with him, was led to believe, and now believes, that Colonel Hamilton was
              of that proud disposition that led him to wish for the very highest position for the
              regiment that it was possible for any body of troops to attain. The only trouble with
              him was that there was no military genius of any kind in his make-up. He was a man of
              good strong mind, and reputed to be a good lawyer, but not one particle of that
              strength of mind was in a military direction. His mind and memory were sufficiently
              strong to memorize the tactics, but he could not understand why a military command was
              given in a set form, nor could he realize that there was a reason for every movement
              in the tactics, and therefore could not put any of his memorized tactics into
              practical use. He could give a command which he received, but could not call from the
              store house of his memory the manner of executing the command when given so as to make
              the manner of its execution understood by the new officers of his regiment so that
              they could execute, or cause to be executed, the movement for which the command had
              been given. As has been stated, Colonel Hamilton was a brave man, and all soldiers
              agree that bravery in an officer in the face of the enemy covers a multitude of short
              comings. At the battle of Perryville, alone in command of his regiment, in so far as
              the other field officers of the regiment were concerned, himself a new officer wholly
              without experience, and with a regiment in which both officers and men as a whole,
              were equally ignorant of their duties, and the manner in which those duties were to be
              performed, yet he never for an instant faltered in his efforts to do all he could, and
              for the sake of his regiment did not hesitate to ask assistance, even from one who did
              not hold a commission, in the formation of his line of battle, and then waited as
              calmly as the most perfect tactician and veteran, for the "shock of battle" which all
              believed was to come.
            Afterward at the battle of Stone's River, when he had been relieved from the command
              of his regiment, not because of any violation of orders, nor yet because of any
              attempt to shirk his duty, for he was in his place ready to do to the  extent of his ability, but relieved because he could not
              by reason of his non military mind apply military principles to the absolute needs of
              the occasion. But when relieved and entirely free to withdraw from the terrible battle
              that was then opening, and which so soon afterward struck his regiment with such
              terrible and deadly effect, instead of leaving the field, dismounted from his horse,
              sent the horse to the rear, and then securing a gun and cartridge box took a place
              with the men of his regiment and remained through the whole of the battle doing duty
              in the ranks as though he were an enlisted man. It is due to the honor of Colonel
              Hamilton, it is due to the honor and magnificent record of the Eighty-sixth Regiment
              of Indiana in the War of the Rebellion, that the bravery of Colonel
              Orville S. Hamilton should be chronicled with the history of the regiment. The fault
              should not be laid at his door that he was not a military man by nature, and he should
              not be censured because he could not become a military commander. The days of our
              battles are over, many, very many of our comrades sleep the soldiers' sleep on the
              fields they helped to make glorious, many more of them have answered the "last roll
              call" since "white winged peace" has come to our land, and we who write, and they who
              shall read that which is written, should ever give the credit which is due to every
              soldier who stood with us in those troublous and stormy days. Colonel Hamilton sleeps
              peacefully now in 
                  —"that low green tent
                  Whose curtain never outward swings."
                 And let us all say, as we can truthfully say, he was a brave, courageous, and patriotic man.
          
          
          
            COMRADES KNOWN IN MARCHES MANY.
            
              Comrades known in marches many
              Comrades tried in dangers many,
              Comrades bound by memories many,
              Brothers ever let us be.
              Wounds or sickness may divide us,
              Marching orders may divide us,
              But whatever fate betide us,
              Brothers of the heart are we.
            
            
              Comrades known by faith the clearest,
              Tried when death was near and nearest,
              Bound we are by ties the dearest,
              Brothers evermore to be.
              And, if spared, and growing older,
              Shoulder still in line with shoulder,
              And with hearts no thrill the colder,
              Brothers ever we shall be.
            
            
              By communion of the banner—
              Crimson, white, and starry banner—
              By the baptism of the banner,
              Children of one church are we.
              Creed nor faction can divide us,
              Race nor language can divide us:
              Still whatever fate betide us,
              Children of the Flag are we.
            
            CHARLES G. HALPINE.
          
        
        
        
          ROSTER  —OF—  Officers and
            Enlisted Men  —OF THE—  EIGHTY-SIXTH
            INDIANA.
          
          
          
            ROSTER OF OFFICERS, EIGHTY-SIXTH REGIMENT, INDIANA
              VOLUNTEERS.
            
              CO.
              NAMES AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of  Commission.
              Date of Muster.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              
              Colonel.
            
            
              
              ORVILLE S. HAMILTON
              Lebanon
              Sept. 6, 1862.
              Sept. 6, 1862.
              Mustered out Jan. 13, '63, for incompetency.
            
            
              
              GEORGE F. DICK
              Attica
              Jan. 14, 1863.
              Feb. 9, 1863.
              Brevetted Brig. General, March 13, '65; mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Lieutenant Colonel.
            
            
              
              DIXON FLEMING
              
              Sept. 6, 1862.
              
              Declined Oct. 21, '62.
            
            
              
              GEORGE F. DICK
              Attica
              Oct. 21, 1862.
              Nov. 1, 1862.
              Promoted Colonel.
            
            
              
              JASPER M. DRESSER
              LaFayette
              Jan. 14, 1863.
              Feb. 9, 1863.
              Resigned June 2, '63: cause, disability.
            
            
              
              JACOB C. DICK
              Attica
              June 3, 1863.
              Nov. 22, 1863.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Major.
            
            
              
              JASPER M. DRESSER
              LaFayette
              Sept. 6, 1862.
              Sept. 6, 1862.
              Promoted Lieutenant Colonel.
            
            
              
              JACOB C. DICK
              Attica
              Jan. 14, 1863.
              April 30, 1863.
              Promoted Lieutenant Colonel.
            
            
              
              PHILLIP GEMMER
              Marshfield
              June 13, 1863.
              April 24, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Adjutant.
            
            
              
              CARSON P. RODMAN
              Lebanon
              Aug. 18, 1862.
              Aug. 21, 1862.
              Promoted Captain Co. H.
            
            
              
              ERASMUS D. THOMAS
              Williamsport
              May 29, 1863.
              May 29, 1863.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Quartermaster.
            
            
              
              KERSEY BATEMAN
              Attica
              Aug. 12, 1862.
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Resigned Sept. 2, '63; cause, disability.
            
            
              
              ROBERT UNDERWOOD
              Oxford
              Jan. 1, 1864.
              July 16, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Chaplain.
            
            
              
              WILLIAM S. HARKER
              Frankfort
              Sept. 7, 1862.
              Sept. 7, 1862.
              Resigned May 3, '63.
            
            
              
              DANIEL KEMPTON
              Clinton County
              July 1, 1863.
              July 27, 1863.
              Resigned Feb. 8, '64.
            
            
              
              Surgeon.
            
            
              
              JAMES S. ELLIOTT
              Thorntown
              Sept. 6, 1862.
              Sept. 26, 1862.
              Resigned Nov. 14, '62.
            
            
              
              JOSEPH JONES
              Williamsport
              Nov. 15, 1862.
              Dec. 12, 1862.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Assistant Surgeon.
            
            
              
              JOSEPH JONES
              Williamsport
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Promoted Surgeon.
            
            
              
              ALLEN M. WALTON
              LaFayette
              Sept. 6, 1862.
              Sept. 6, 1862.
              Discharged May 29, '64, for wounds received in action.
            
            
              
              FLAVIUS J. VAN VORHIS
              Zionsville
              Dec. 6, 1862.
              Dec. 15, 1862.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
            
              A
              Captain.
            
            
              
              AARON FRAZEE
              Indianapolis
              Aug. 3, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Dec. 2, '63.
            
            
              
              PERRY T. GORHAM
              Indianapolis
              March 1, 1864.
              May 13, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              GEORGE W. SMITH
              Lebanon
              Aug. 3, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Killed at battle of Stone River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              
              ROBERT A. WILLIAMSON
              Lebanon
              Jan. 4, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Resigned Oct. 19, '63.
            
            
              
              PERRY T. GORHAM
              Indianapolis
              Oct. 20, 1863.
              Jan. 1, 1864.
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              
              WILLIAM KELSO
              Thorntown
              March 1, 1864.
              May 13, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              ROBERT A. WILLIAMSON
              Lebanon
              Aug. 3, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              PERRY T. GORHAM
              Indianapolis
              Jan. 4, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              SAMUEL H. THOMPSON
              Kirk's Cr'sR'ds
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
            
              B
              Captain.
            
            
              
              FRANCIS J. MATTLER
              LaFayette
              Aug. 25, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Dismissed Nov. 6, '63; restored Jan. 3, '64; dismissed Jan. 3, '65.
            
            
              
              JEREMIAH HAUGH
              Delphi
              Nov. 7, 1863.
              Jan. 31, 1865.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JOHN S. ARMITAGE
              Delphi
              Aug. 25, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Dishonorably dismissed Jan. 15, '53.
            
            
              
              JEREMIAH HAUGH
              Delphi
              Jan. 16, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              
              MATTHEW MCINERNY
              Delphi
              Nov. 7, 1863.
              
              Promoted Captain Co. H.
            
            
              
              JOHN L. BULLOCK
              Delphi
              March 1, 1865.
              March 28, 1865.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JEREMIAH HAUGH
              Delphi
              Aug. 25, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              MATTHEW MCINERNY
              Delphi
              Jan. 16, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JOHN T. WHITCHER
              Pittsburg
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
            
              C
              Captain.
            
            
              
              JACOB C. DICK
              Attica
              Aug. 13, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted Major.
            
            
              
              JAMES GREGORY
              LaFayette
              April 25, 1863.
              April 30, 1863.
              Resigned March 25, '64.
            
            
              
              THOMAS A. ODELL
              West Point
              March 26, 1864.
              July 1, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              WILLIAM BURR
              Attica
              Aug. 13, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Dec. 2, '63.
            
            
              
              CYRUS O. SYLVESTER
              Attica
              May 1, 1864.
              July 16, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              OLIVER BOORD
              Chambersburg
              Aug. 13, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Feb. 3, '63.
            
            
              
              THEODORE F. BRANT
              Attica
              Feb. 4, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Resigned May 7, '64.
            
            
            
              
              JAMES H. JACKSON
              Rob Roy
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
            
              D
              Captain.
            
            
              
              LEWIS STEVENS
              Rainsville
              Aug. 19, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JACKSON HICKSON
              Rainsville
              Aug. 13, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned May 23, '63.
            
            
              
              HARRIS J. GASS
              Rainsville
              May 25, 1863.
              June 5, 1863.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              HARRIS J. GASS
              Rainsville
              Aug. 13, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JOSHUA G. DETURK
              Rainsville
              May 24, 1863.
              June 5, 1863.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              E
              Captain.
            
            
              
              PHILIP GEMMER
              Marshfield
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted Major.
            
            
              
              JOHN R. MOORE
              Williamsport
              Aug. 1, 1864.
              
              Resigned Sept. 30, '64, as First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              HARMON M. BILLINGS
              West Lebanon
              Oct. 15, 1864.
              Feb. 16, 1865.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              GEORGE HITCHENS
              Williamsport
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned May 10, '63.
            
            
              
              JOHN R. MOORE
              Williamsport
              May 11, 1863.
              June 5, 1863.
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              
              MAHLON J. HAINES
              Indianapolis
              Aug. 1, 1864.
              Oct. 17, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JOHN R. MOORE
              Williamsport
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              MAHLON J. HAINES
              Indianapolis
              May 30, 1863.
              June 5, 1863.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              STEPHEN CRONKHITE
              Marshfield
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
            
              F
              Captain
            
            
              
              WILLIAM S. SIMS
              Lebanon
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Aug. 23, '64.
            
            
              
              WILSON H. LAYMAN
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 24, 1864.
              Nov. 7, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JACOB PALMER
              Lebanon
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Jan. 9, '63.
            
            
              
              ROBERT W. COOLMAN
              Thorntown
              Jan. 10, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Resigned Oct. 23, '63.
            
            
              
              WILSON H. LAYMAN
              Crawfordsville
              Oct. 24, 1863.
              Jan. 1, 1864.
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              
              HENRY W. NICHOLS
              Northfield
              Aug. 24, 1864.
              Nov. 7, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              ROBERT W. COOLMAN
              Thorntown
              Aug. 14, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              WILSON H. LAYMAN
              Crawfordsville
              Jan. 10, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              ENOCH R. WORLEY
              Northfield
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
            
              G
              Captain.
            
            
              
              JOHN SEAGER
              Jefferson
              Aug. 19, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Dec. 28, '62.
            
            
              
              NELSON R. SMITH
              Frankfort
              Jan. 29, 1863.
              Jan. 29, 1863.
              Cashiered and dismissed July 25, '63.
            
            
              
              LITTLETON V. REAM
              Michigantown
              Aug. 4, 1863.
              Nov. 5, 1863.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              SAMUEL DOUGLASS
              Frankfort
              Aug. 19, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned July 25, '63.
            
            
              
              LOREN G. COWDREY
              Michigantown
              Nov. 1, 1863.
              Dec. 15, 1863.
              Honorably discharged on account of wounds Dec. 9, '64.
            
            
              
              THEODORE HESSER
              Frankfort
              Feb. 3, 1865.
              Feb. 17, 1865.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              NELSON R. SMITH
              Frankfort
              Aug. 19, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              
              LITTLETON V. REAM
              Michigantown
              Jan. 29, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              
              JOHN SNYDER
              Frankfort
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
            
              H
              Captain.
            
            
              
              MILTON BELL
              Michigantown
              Aug. 19, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Jan. 10, '63.
            
            
              
              CARSON P. RODMAN
              Lebanon
              Jan. 23, 1863.
              April 26, 1863.
              Resigned Sept. 14, '64.
            
            
              
              MATTHEW MCINERNY
              Delphi
              Nov. 29, 1864.
              Dec. 5, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JAMES B. NEWTON
              Frankfort
              Aug. 19, 1862
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Jan. 22, '63.
            
            
              
              URIAH THOMAS
              Burgett's Cor.
              Jan. 23, 1863.
              April 26, 1863.
              Resigned June 22, '63.
            
            
              
              DAVID H. OLIVE
              Lebanon
              July 18, 1863.
              Nov. 5, 1863.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              URIAH THOMAS
              Burgett's Cor.
              Aug. 19, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              WILLIAM J. NEES
              Middle Fork
              Jan. 23, 1863.
              April 3, 1863.
              Resigned July 17, '63.
            
            
              
              JOHN M. CAST
              Frankfort
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
            
              I
              Captain.
            
            
              
              WILLIAM C. LAMBERT
              Stockwell
              Aug. 22, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Dismissed by Court Martial June 18, '63.
            
            
              
              JAMES R. CARNAHAN
              Dayton
              Aug. 1, 1863.
              Sept. 4, 1863.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JOHN GILLILAND
              Linden
              Aug. 22, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Returned as a deserter to 51st Ill. Vol. by sentence of Court Martial.
            
            
              
              THOMAS H. B. MCCAIN
              Thorntown
              Aug. 1, 1864.
              Sept. 5, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              JAMES T. DOSTER
              Colfax
              Aug. 22, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Died Dec. 19, '63, of disease.
            
            
              
              HENRY MOHLER
              Rossville
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
            
              K
              Captain.
            
            
              
              WILLIAM M. SOUTHARD
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 23, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Killed at battle of Missionary Ridge Nov. 25, '63.
            
            
              
              ROBERT B. SPILMAN
              Crawfordsville
              March 31, 1864.
              June 26, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              WILLIAM H. LYNN
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 23, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Resigned Nov. 30, '62.
            
            
              
              JOHN M. YOUNT
              Crawfordsville
              Nov. 30, 1862.
              Nov. 30, 1862.
              Resigned March 4, '64.
            
            
              
              JESSE CARTER
              LaFayette
              March 31, 1864.
              
              Discharged as First Sergeant April 25, '64.
            
            
              
              HUGH RILEY
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 1, 1864.
              Sept. 5, 1864.
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              
              Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JOHN M. YOUNT
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 23, 1862.
              Sept. 4, 1862.
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              
              JAMES R. CARNAHAN
              Dayton
              Nov. 30, 1862.
              Dec. 22, 1862.
              Promoted Captain Co. I.
            
            
              
              TIGHLMAN A. HOWARD
              Crawfordsville
              June 1, 1865.
              
              Mustered out as First Sergeant with Regiment.
            
          
        
        
        
          EIGHTY-SIXTH REGIMENT. THREE YEARS' SERVICE.
          
            REGIMENTAL NON-COMMISSIONED STAFF.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of  Muster.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              Sergeant Major.
            
            
              Olive, David H.
              Lebanon
              Sept. 7, '62
              Promoted First Lieutenant Co. H.
            
            
              McCain, Thos. H. B.
              Thorntown
              Nov. 4,'63
              Promoted First Lieutenant Co. I.
            
            
              Adair, Irwin M.
              Thorntown
              Sept. 3,'64
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              Q. M. Sergeant.
            
            
              Spilman, Robert B.
              Crawfordsville
              Sept. 4,'62
              Promoted Captain Co. K.
            
            
              Sater, Aaron H.
              Mt. Pleasant
              Sept. 1,'64
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              Commissary Sergeant.
            
            
              Underwood, Robert
              Oxford
              Sept. 4, '62
              Promoted Quartermaster.
            
            
              Hixon, Walter B.
              Williamsport
              Aug. 1, '64
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              Principal Musicians.
            
            
              Bennett, John S.
              Prairie Edge
              Sept. 4,'62
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
            
              Hammell, Nathan
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4,'62
              Mustered out with Regiment.
            
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY A.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of  Muster  1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Smith, George W.
              Northern Depot
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Jan. 2, '63.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Gorham, Perry T.
              Indianapolis
              Aug. 1
              Promoted Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              Clark, Henry
              Northern Depot
              Aug. 1
              Died at Bowling Green, Ky., Dec. 6, '62.
            
            
              Kelso, William
              Thorntown
              Aug. 1
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              Myers, Robert W.
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Killed at Stone's River Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Coombs, William E.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 29, '62.
            
            
              Abney, Rilen T.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged June 11, '63.
            
            
              Hamilton, Thomas A.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged June 2, '63.
            
            
              Hardesty, Vinson H.
              Reese's Mills
              Aug. 1
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn., April 2, '63.
            
            
              Hester, Thomas S.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Died Jan. 1, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Worrell, Floyd N.
              White Lick
              Aug. 1
              Died Jan. 12, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Hysong, Stephen C.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn., March 12, '63.
            
            
              Myers, Daniel.
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Groves, John C.
              Lawrence
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Duchiman, Wm. O.
              Northern Depot
              Aug. 1
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 25, '63.
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Jones, William
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged April 21, '63.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Abney, Manson C.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, 65.
            
            
              Allen, William
              Fayette
              Aug. 1
              Transferred to V. R. C. Sept. 1, '63.
            
            
              Berry, William J.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Blevins, William
              Boxley
              Aug. 1
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn., Jan.5, '63.
            
            
              Boyd, William
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Nov. 26, '62.
            
            
              Campbell, Charles H.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Campbell, Oliver N.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Died at Bowling Green, Ky., Jan. 3, '63.
            
            
              Canbe, Joseph F.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 1
              Died at Cleveland, O., Feb. 22, '63.
            
            
              Cave, Alonzo.
              Clarks Hill
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Carrol, Alonzo B.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Deserted Sept. 20, '63; died, Camp Morton, Nov. 6, '63.
            
            
              Colbert, Jesse
              Northern Depot
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 13, '65.
            
            
              Coombs, George W.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, 65.
            
            
              Creamer, Marion F.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn., April 16, '63.
            
            
              Demoss, Wilson
              Thorntown
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 13, '65.
            
            
              Dinsmore, James F.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died at New Albany, Ind., Feb. 15, '63.
            
            
              Dinsmore, John
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged July 15, '63.
            
            
              Dinsmore, Oliver J.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died at Indianapolis, Oct. 15, '64.
            
            
              Dinsmore, William F.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died Dec. 7, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Edwards, John H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died at Annapolis, Md., Feb. 11, '63.
            
            
              Elder, Eli
              Thorntown
              Aug. 1
              Discharged May 1, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Evans, Elias
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Deserted; mustered out June 20, '65.
            
            
              Fancher, John W.
              Northern Depot
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out May 30, '65.
            
            
              Feeley, John A.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Died Jan. 18, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Garrett, John
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Haller, Levi P.
              Reese's Mills
              Aug. 1
              Died at Cave City, Ky., Dec. 1, '62.
            
            
              Hammond, A. B.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged July 23, '63.
            
            
              Harding, John
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Nov. 12, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Harding, Thomas J.
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Mar. 12, '63.
            
            
              Harmon, Robert J.
              Zionsville
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Jan. 2, '63.
            
            
              Harris, William H.
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Harpool, Marcellus H.
              
              Aug. 1
              Deserted Sept. 19, '63.
            
            
              Haynes, Hermon D.
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Discharged by civil authority.
            
            
              Hedge, Jeremiah
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hedge, William
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              " " "
            
            
              Higgins, George H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              " " "
            
            
              Holeman, Aaron
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Transferred to V. R. C.—, '64.
            
            
              Howard, Addison L.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hoover, Milton
              Zionsville
              Aug. 1
              " " "
            
            
              Hysong, Aaron H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Transferred to Miss. Mar. Brig., Feb. 2, '63.
            
            
              Hysong, John A.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Deserted from hospital.
            
            
              Jester, Elcana
              Westfield
              Aug. 1
              Died at Cincinnati, O., Jan. 5, '63.
            
            
              Jester, Jacob
              Westfield
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Jolly, Thomas J.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Mar. 21,'65; disability.
            
            
              Kelly, Elijah
              Thorntown
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Jan. 30, '63; accid. wounds.
            
            
              Ketring, Abraham
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 18, '63.
            
            
              Leach, Willis
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Lewis, Benjamin H.
              Berlin
              Aug. 1
              " " "
            
            
              Lindsey, George E.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Dec. 7, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Martin, William F.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged May 13, '64. Died on way home.
            
            
              McCormick, John N.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Jan. 2, '63.
            
            
              McCoy, George W.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Transferred to V. R. C., Dec. 1, '63.
            
            
              McKinsey, Jacob
              Reese's Mills
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Jan. 9, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Moore, Jacob S.
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Mount, George N.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out May 15, '65.
            
            
              Mount, John H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Discharged April 1, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Owings, Ephraim
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Oct. 12, '64.
            
            
              Padgett, Henry
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Jan. 2, '63.
            
            
              Padgett, James E.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Transferred V. R. C.; must'd out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Padgett, Jeremiah
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Dec. 10, '63.
            
            
              Padgett, William
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Died at Nashville Tenn., Sept. 25, '64.
            
            
              Powell, Edmund
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Oct. 23, '63.
            
            
              Powell, John M.
              Elizaville
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Pritchard, Joseph
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
            
              Reichard, Franklin
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 4, '63.
            
            
              Ross, James L.
              Jamestown
              Aug. 1
              Deserted from hospital.
            
            
              Singleton, William
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Sipes, James
              Jamestown
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Smith, Hiram
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Died in Andersonville prison, Mar. 17, '64.
            
            
              Smith, John
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Transferred to V. R. C., July 29, '64.
            
            
              Stoops, Benjamin F.
              Lawrence
              Aug. 1
              Died at Chattanooga, Tenn., Nov. 20 '63.
            
            
              Stoops, Robert W.
              Lawrence
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Stowers, Richard A.
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Thayer, Daniel
              Lebanon
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Thompson, Samuel H.
              Kirks X Roads
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as First Sergeant.
            
            
              Trout, Abraham J.
              Whitestown
              Aug. 1
              Transferred to V. R. C., May 30, '64.
            
            
              Wells, William B.
              Zionsville
              Aug. 1
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 22, '63.
            
            
              White, Henry
              Whitestown
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Oct. 23, '62.
            
            
              Wiley, George W.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Mar. 1, '64; wounds.
            
            
              Wiley, William D.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 1
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Wilharm, Augustus
              Northern Depot
              Aug. 1
              Died near Murfreesboro, April 14, '63.
            
            
              Wright, Benjamin F.
              Northern Depot
              Aug. 1
              Discharged Oct. 23, '62.
            
            
              Recruits.
            
            
              Brown, James M.
              Thorntown
              Jan. 4, '64.
              Transferred 51st Reg't., June 5, '65.
            
            
              Brown, Robert S.
              Thorntown
              Mar. 9,'64.
              " " "
            
            
              Green, Joseph W.
              Lebanon
              Mar. 9, '64.
              Deserted March —, '64.
            
            
              Griffin, Thomas J.
              Thorntown
              Dec. 30 '64.
              Transferred 51st Reg't., June 5, '65.
            
            
              Martin, Cornelius H.
              West Lebanon
              Mar. 9, '64.
              Trans. V. R. C.; must'd out Nov. 11, '65.
            
            
              Purtell, Patrick
              
              Oct. 5, '64.
              Mustered out May 13, '65.
            
            
              Whittaker, Alex. M.
              Thorntown
              Jan. 4, '64.
              Deserted March —, '64.
            
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY B.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of  Muster.  1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              McInerny, Matthew
              Delphi
              July 15
              Promoted Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Gist, Newton H.
              Delphi
              July 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as private.
            
            
              Reed, James
              Delphi
              July 15
              Discharged Feb. 14, '63.
            
            
              Heintz, Lewis
              Delphi
              July 15
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Smiley, William L.
              Pittsburg
              July 15
              Deserted; mustered out May 11, '65.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Crowell, James M.
              Lockport
              July 15
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 22, '62.
            
            
              Penny, Henry W.
              Pittsburg
              July 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as private.
            
            
              Spitznagle, Frank H.
              Delphi
              July 15
              Deserted; mustered out May 10, '65.
            
            
              Chandler, Robert
              Lockport
              July 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Watters, Charles
              Buck Creek
              July 15
              Died Dec. 1, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Bullock, John N.
              Delphi
              July 15
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              Houk, David
              Lockport
              July 15
              Deserted March 1, '63.
            
            
              York, Samuel
              Prince William
              July 15
              Transferred to U.S. Vet. and Engineers.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Edgerly, James H.
              Pittsburg
              July 20
              Discharged March 25, '63.
            
            
              Beaver, Henry
              Monticello
              July 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Stevenson, James C.
              Prince William
              July 20
              Deserted Oct, 18, '62.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Armer, George E.
              Delphi
              July 20
              Killed at Stone's River Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Armstrong, James F.
              Prince William
              July 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Ashba, Benjamin A.
              Prince William
              July 20
              Died at Nashville, Oct. 1, '63.
            
            
              Ashba, Jonathan
              Prince William
              July 20
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out June 29, '65.
            
            
              Baker, John
              Delphi
              July 20
              Must'd out June 6, '65, as absent sick.
            
            
            
              Bealer, Christian
              Delphi
              July 20
              Deserted April 15, '63.
            
            
              Bierman, Christian
              Delphi
              July 20
              Died at Richmond, Va., Dec. 6, '63.
            
            
              Blue, John
              Delphi
              July 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Bowen, George W.
              Delphi
              July 20
              Discharged March 13, '63.
            
            
              Bundy, Benjamin
              Delphi
              July 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Casad, John A.
              Pittsburg
              July 20
              Died at Nashville, Jan. 21,'63; wounds.
            
            
              Chittick, Jasper
              Prince William
              July 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Chittick, Andrew J.
              Prince William
              July 20
              " " "
            
            
              Clark, Hiram
              Delphi
              July 20
              Died at Murfreesboro, Feb. 11, '63.
            
            
              Clifford, Con
              Delphi
              July 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Condon, Garrett
              Delphi
              July 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Copstick, John M.
              Prince William
              July 20
              " " "
            
            
              Crow, Thomas
              Delphi
              July 25
              Died at Chattanooga, Oct. 28, '63.
            
            
              Crowell, Richard C.
              Lockport
              July 25
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Davis, Albert
              Delphi
              July 25
              Died at Murfreesboro, Feb, 9, '63.
            
            
              Denman, Joseph
              Delphi
              July 25
              Deserted April 15, '63.
            
            
              Dittmer, Frederick
              Delphi
              July 25
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Donahoe, John
              Delphi
              July 25
              Discharged March 17, '63.
            
            
              Eisley, Barney
              Delphi
              July 25
              Mustered out June 6, '63.
            
            
              Farrier, Robert
              Camden
              July 25
              Discharged May 6, '63.
            
            
              Felthoff, Henry
              Prince William
              July 25
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 4, '65.
            
            
              German, John S.
              Lockport
              July 25
              Died at Nashville, Feb. 16, '63.
            
            
              German, Southey K.
              Lockport
              July 25
              Died at Chattanooga, Nov. 4, '63.
            
            
              Green, John
              Delphi
              July 25
              Deserted Dec. 31, '63.
            
            
              Grider, John M.
              Pittsburg
              July 25
              Deserted Oct. 6, '62.
            
            
              Haiffe, Joseph
              Delphi
              July 25
              Died at Murfreesboro, Feb. 9, '63.
            
            
              Hart, James J.
              Delphi
              July 25
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hartsman, Henry
              LaFayette
              July 25
              Mustered out June 12, '65.
            
            
              Hauk, Jacob
              Cleveland, O.
              July 25
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hauk, George H.
              Lockport
              July 25
              " " "
            
            
              Hoover, Joseph
              Colfax
              July 25
              " " "
            
            
              Huntley, James H.
              Prince William
              July 25
              Supposed to be dead.
            
            
              Kekkefoet, Albert
              Delphi
              July 25
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Kough, Richard
              LaFayette
              July 25
              Transferred to V. R. C. March 17, '64.
            
            
              Lunenburg, Fred'r'k
              Delphi
              July 25
              Died at Chattanooga, Nov. 26, '63.
            
            
              Magee, John
              N. Y. City
              July 25
              Discharged May 15, '65.
            
            
              Marshall, Humphrey
              Rockfield
              July 25
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Miller, Frederick
              Delphi
              July 26
              Discharged March 12, '63.
            
            
              Misner, Usual
              Prince William
              July 26
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Dec. 29, '62.
            
            
              Morton, Harrison P.
              Delphi
              July 26
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              McMahon, Patrick
              Delphi
              July 26
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 27, '65.
            
            
              McQuillen, William
              Rockfield
              July 26
              Mustered out May 17, '65.
            
            
              Ohime, John
              LaFayette
              July 26
              Discharged Oct. 15, '62.
            
            
              Oliver, Lemuel W.
              Pittsburg
              July 27
              Died in Danville Prison, Va., Dec. 6, '63.
            
            
              Ratliff, Salathiel
              Prince William
              July 27
              Mustered out June 7, '65.
            
            
              Ratliff, John
              Prince William
              July 27
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Ratliff, Lewis C.
              Prince William
              July 27
              " " "
            
            
              Rogers, George
              Idaville
              July 27
              " " "
            
            
              Rose, William
              LaFayette
              July 27
              Died at Silver Springs, Tenn., Nov. 11, '62.
            
            
              Rose, Benjamin F.
              Transitville
              July 27
              Killed at Kenesaw Mt., June 28, '64.
            
            
              Saxon, Anthony M.
              Rockfield
              July 27
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Saylor, Wilson
              Prince William
              July 27
              Died at Stone's River, Nov. 20, '63.
            
            
              Scott, Elias
              Prince William
              July 27
              Died at Bowling Green, Nov. 15, '62.
            
            
              Sharp, James W. P.
              LaFayette
              July 27
              Mustered out June 17, '65.
            
            
              Shay, Thomas
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 2
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Spies, Matthias
              Prince William
              Aug. 2
              " " "
            
            
              Starne, Levi M.
              Prince William
              Aug. 2
              Discharged Oct. 23, '62.
            
            
              Stoner, Abraham
              Delphi
              Aug. 2
              Transf'd V. R. C.; must'd out June 29, '65.
            
            
              Stoner, Cyrus
              Rockfield
              Aug. 2
              Discharged March 12, '63.
            
            
              Swartz, Samuel
              Prince William
              Aug. 2
              Transferred to V. R. C. Aug. 1, '63.
            
            
              Thirtyacre, John
              Delphi
              Aug. 2
              Discharge Nov. 4, '62.
            
            
              Tucker, Abraham
              Rockfield
              Aug. 2
              Transf'd to V.R.C.; mustered out June 29, '65.
            
            
              Tubberty, Thomas
              LaFayette
              Aug. 2
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Turner, John W.
              Pittsburg
              Aug. 2
              Missing at Franklin, Tenn., Nov. 28, '64.
            
            
              Welsh, John
              Delphi
              Aug. 2
              Discharged March 17, '63.
            
            
              Whitcher, John T.
              Pittsburg
              Aug. 2
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as First Sergeant.
            
            
              White, John
              Delphi
              Aug. 2
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wolford, Henry
              Francisville
              Aug. 2
              " " "
            
            
              Woster, John
              Rockfield
              Aug. 2
              " " "
            
            
              York, Andrew J.
              Prince William
              Aug. 2
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
          
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY C.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of  Muster.  1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Dick, Solomon L.
              Williamsport
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Dec. 30, '62.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Brant, Theodore F.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Promoted Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              Mills, John L.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Dec. 5, '62.
            
            
              Turman, Wilson L.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out July 1, '65.
            
            
              Johnson, Ebenezer
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Nov. 20, '62.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Kiff, Newton W.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Dec. 5, '62.
            
            
              Coffing, William I.
              Portland
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Sept. 1, '63.
            
            
              Grant, John A.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Feb. 19, '63.
            
            
              Heglin, James
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Lost on Sultana, April 27, '65.
            
            
              Poole, Richard F.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Dec. 17, '62.
            
            
              Odell, Thomas A.
              West Point
              Aug. 13
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              Cooper, Jacob
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died, wounds rec'd at Mission Ridge.
            
            
              Haller, John E.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Swarts, Eli
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 14, '64.
            
            
              Patterson, Charles
              St. Louis, Mo.
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Swarts, Daniel
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Jan. 5, '63.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Bethel, John
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Feb. 13, '63.
            
            
              Bishop, Charles
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Blanchfill, Edward
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Boord, William J.
              Chambersburg
              Aug. 13
              " " "
            
            
              Boszor, Francis J.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died near Murfreesboro, May 9, '63.
            
            
              Brewer, John W.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Briney, Mark B.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Feb. 11, '63.
            
            
              Brown, John D.
              Independence
              Aug. 13
              Died at Nashville, Jan. 12, '63.
            
            
              Brown, James H.
              Buell
              Aug. 13
              Transf'd to V.R.C. must'd out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Butcher, James S.
              Williamsport
              Aug. 13
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Mar. 27, '65.
            
            
              Clawson, John
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Clawson, Garrett
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Died at Murfreesboro, May 5, '65.
            
            
              Coffenberry, N. L.
              Independence
              Aug. 13
              Discharged, wounds rec'd Stone's River.
            
            
              Conner, Charles
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Cox, John W.
              Independence
              Aug. 13
              Deserted Oct. 18, '62.
            
            
              Crane, Abner J.
              Chambersburg
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Feb. 4, '63.
            
            
              Crane, Ira J.
              Chambersburg
              Aug. 13
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 12, '63.
            
            
              Crook, Francis M.
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Dindot, William T.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Deserted March 25, '63.
            
            
              Dixon, George
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Lost on Sultana, April 27, '65.
            
            
              Ellis, William
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Oct. 15, '63.
            
            
              Gott, John W.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died in Barren County, Ky., Nov. 12, '62.
            
            
              Hall, James
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hall, Jeremiah
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Transf'd to V.R.C.; must'd out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Harlin, William W.
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Transferred to Miss. Marine Brigade.
            
            
              Harbert, John
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died at Murfreesboro, May 30, '63.
            
            
              Hawkins, Van Buren
              Chambersburg
              Aug. 13
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 28, '63.
            
            
              Haxton, Charles W.
              New Albany
              Aug. 13
              Transf'd to Engineer Corps, Aug. 7, '64.
            
            
              Haxton, Jeremiah
              New Albany
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Hirsch, Woolf
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Transferred to V. R. C.; wounds.
            
            
              Hoffman, John H.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died in Andersonville Prison.
            
            
              Hogue, Andrew J.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hoshower, Aaron
              Williamsport
              Aug. 13
              " " "
            
            
              Idle, Moses V.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Oct. 15, '62.
            
            
              Jack, Aaron B.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Dec. 15, '62.
            
            
              Jackson, James H.
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as First Sergeant.
            
            
              Jones, John
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Kilpatrick, Robert B.
              LaFayette
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Aug. 25, '63.
            
            
              Labaw, David L.
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Died at Murfreesboro, April 4, '63.
            
            
              Labaw, Derrick V.
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
            
              Lamborn, Elwood
              
              Aug. 13
              Transferred to Engineers Corps.
            
            
              Landon, Labon
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died at Fishing Creek, Ky., Oct. 27, '64.
            
            
              Landon, David
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Nov. 17, '62.
            
            
              Landon, Jonathan
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged March 4, '63.
            
            
              Landon, Francis M.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out May 30, '65.
            
            
              Landers, Nathaniel B.
              Portland
              Aug. 13
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 18, '63.
            
            
              Low, Samuel
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Marquis, William H.
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Jan. 26, '63.
            
            
              Martin, Wm. H. H.
              Chambersburg
              Aug. 13
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, 62.
            
            
              McCabe, Shepherd
              LaFayette
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 17, '65.
            
            
              McLean, Francis E.
              Covington
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              McLean, Henry H.
              Newtown
              Aug. 13
              Died at Columbia, Ky., Nov. 2, '62.
            
            
              Meek, Thomas
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, 65.
            
            
              Millard, Harrison
              Chambersburg
              Aug. 13
              " " "
            
            
              Morehouse, Hartson
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              " " "
            
            
              Morgan, Joseph
              Portland
              Aug. 13
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 14, '63.
            
            
              Norton, Asa
              West Point
              Aug. 13
              Discharged April 5, '63.
            
            
              Odell, Alfred B.
              Williamsport
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Phipps, John W.
              Rob Roy
              Aug. 13
              " " " "
            
            
              Pugh, George
              Portland
              Aug. 13
              Died at Murfreesboro, Mar. 29, '63.
            
            
              Remster, Phineas
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died in Fountain co., Ind., Sept. 12, '62.
            
            
              Reedy, John
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Oct. 15, '62.
            
            
              Reynolds, Marcellus
              Odell
              Aug. 13
              Supposed to have been lost on Sultana.
            
            
              Roberts, William H.
              LaFayette
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Feb. 7, '63.
            
            
              Rolly, John
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Supposed to have been lost on Sultana.
            
            
              Runkle, William
              
              Aug. 13
              " " " "
            
            
              Schoolcraft, John
              
              Aug. 13
              Discharged.
            
            
              Sentman, Amos S.
              Covington
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Feb. 17, '63.
            
            
              Shafer, Jacob
              Independence
              Aug. 13
              Deserted Oct. 18, '62.
            
            
              Shelly, Philip
              Portland
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 7, '65.
            
            
              Shields, William
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Died Jan. 23, '63.
            
            
              Shroyer, David
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Transferred to V. R. C., July 27, 64.
            
            
              Sylvester, Cyrus O.
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Promoted F1irst Lieutenant.
            
            
              Simmerman, Jos. W.
              Williamsport
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, 65.
            
            
              Simmerman, M. V.
              Williamsport
              Aug. 13
              Supposed to have been lost on Sultana.
            
            
              Slack, John
              Portland
              Aug. 13
              Discharged.
            
            
              Stephenson, Uriah
              
              Aug. 13
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; mustered out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Switzer, John
              Portland
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Trullinger, Benjamin
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Warrick, George C.
              Portland
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 17, '65.
            
            
              Wilson, Martin
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 12, '65.
            
            
              Young, William
              Attica
              Aug. 13
              Transf'd to Engin'r Corps, July 20, '65.
            
            
              Recruits.
            
            
              Myers, Albert
              Homer
              Dec. 21, '63
              Transf'd to 51st Regiment, June 5, '65.
            
            
              Tyler, Cidney
              
              Dec. 21, '63
              Mustered out July 2, '65.
            
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY D.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of  Muster.  1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Gilger, Charles W. B.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died at Nashville, Jan. 14, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Stephens, Reason
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Discharged Feb. 18, '63.
            
            
              Jacobs, Jackson
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died at Stone's River, Jan. 1, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Crabb, Vintson
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Discharged March 26, '63.
            
            
              Graves, Thomas J.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Discharged July 19, '64; wounds; First Sergeant.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Vail, William F.
              Warren county
              Aug. 30
              Transferred to V. R C., —, '64.
            
            
              High, Anson
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died in Richmond Prison, Jan. 18, '63.
            
            
              Sigler, William
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Transferred to V. R. C., Aug. 1, '63.
            
            
            
              Lamb, Jacob
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Discharged Jan. 4, '65; wounds.
            
            
              Good, Samuel S.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 17, '63.
            
            
              Pye, William
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died at Perryville, Ky., Oct. 28, '62.
            
            
              Brier, Henry H.
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Deserted Jan. 3, 63.
            
            
              Harris, Benjamin
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Transferred to V. R. C., Aug. 1, '63.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Freeman, George W.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Deserted Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Brady, Elias
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died at Chattonooga, Dec. 11, '63.
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Thompson, C. B.
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              Discharged March 17, '63.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Adams, Samuel
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Discharged Aug. 4, '63.
            
            
              Ale, Henry
              Warren county
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Alexander, John R.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              " " " "
            
            
              Anderson, James
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Anderson, Perry B.
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              " " " "
            
            
              Baldis, John
              Warren county
              Aug. 30
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Beaver, John
              Warren county
              Aug. 31
              Died at Annapolis, Md., Feb. 10, '63.
            
            
              Bennett, Authur E.
              Warren county
              Aug. 30
              Deserted Oct. 20, '62.
            
            
              Boots, John R.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Borders, Spencer [J.]
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out June 29, '65.
            
            
              Borders, John Mc
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Discharged Jan. 25, '63.
            
            
              Calton, William T.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Discharged Aug. 27, '63.
            
            
              Calton, Morgan M.
              Warren county
              Aug. 15
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out June 29, '65.
            
            
              Carry, John E.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Carpenter, Benj. O.
              Warren county
              Aug. 1O
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Case, Marvin T.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65. as First Sergeant.
            
            
              Castle, Levi
              Warren county
              Aug. 3O
              Discharged March 30, '63.
            
            
              Cleckner, Joseph
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 2, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Click, James
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Discharged Feb. 9, '63.
            
            
              Coats, Archibald
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died at Silver Springs, Ky., Nov. 18, '62.
            
            
              Cobb, Virgil A.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Discharged Jan. 3, '63.
            
            
              Coffelt, William S.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Deserted Oct. 28, '62.
            
            
              DeTurk, Joshua G.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Promoted Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              Dimmick, Doctor J.
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Foster, David
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              " " "
            
            
              Foster, John B.
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              " " "
            
            
              Foster, John E.
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              " " "
            
            
              Freeman, Thomas J.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Died at Bowling Green, Ky., Nov. 18, '62.
            
            
              Gerard, Joshua
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 6, '63.
            
            
              Gillispie, Stephen
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Graves, Irvin T.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              " " "
            
            
              Gray, Charles W.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Discharged Feb. 28, '63.
            
            
              Guest, James
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died at Nashville, Jan. 26, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Hanks, Wallace B.
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 14, '63.
            
            
              Hays, Henry
              Warren county
              Aug. 30
              Discharged Feb. 28, '63.
            
            
              Hendricks, Israel
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hickman, Nathan
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Mar. 30, '63.
            
            
              Hickman, William
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hinkle, John
              Warren county
              Aug. 15
              Transferred to V. R. C., Mar. 13, '65.
            
            
              Hixson, Walter B.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Must'd out June 6, '65, as Com. Serg't.
            
            
              Hoddy, Charles R.
              Warren county
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Kelley, Allen
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Discharged Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Kilgore, Irvin A.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Transf'd to V. R. C., Aug 1, '63.
            
            
              Krise, John
              Warren county
              Aug. 11
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Mar. 22, '63.
            
            
              Lamb, William
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              McWherter, Robert
              Warren county
              Aug. 30
              Died at Nashville, Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              McCartney, Thos. J.
              Warren county
              Aug. 28
              Killed at Peach Tree Creek, July 22, '64.
            
            
              Mosier, Harvey
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              Transf'd to Engineer Corps July 18, '64.
            
            
              Milkins, David
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Discharged Aug. 2, '63.
            
            
              Mucle, John
              Warren county
              Aug. 15
              Deserted Oct. 28, '62.
            
            
              Nern, Martin
              Warren county
              Aug. 15
              " "
            
            
              Nixson, William W.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Oglesby, William
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Died at Murfreesboro, March 22, '63.
            
            
              Pringle, Nathan C.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Richards, John
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Died in Andersonville, Sept. 25, '64.
            
            
              Romine, Rolandus
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Ruloson, James E.
              Warren county
              Aug. 31
              Died of w'ds rec'd Mis. R., Nov. 26, '63.
            
            
            
              Scanlon, Bartley
              Warren county
              Aug. 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Shaw, Daniel
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Discharged Jan. 4, '65.
            
            
              Shew, Cornelius C.
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, 65.
            
            
              Smith, Isaiah
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              " " "
            
            
              Smith, Thomas W.
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Transferred to V. R. C. Aug. 1, '63.
            
            
              Smith, Samuel
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Discharged March 1, '63.
            
            
              Solomon, John
              Warren county
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Stevens, Joseph W.
              Warren county
              Aug. 20
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 5, '65.
            
            
              Stevens, David L.
              Warren county
              Aug. 11
              Discharged March 20, '63.
            
            
              Steffee, Henry
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Story, Thomas E.
              Warren county
              Aug. 30
              Transf'd to Engineer Corps, July 18, '64.
            
            
              Stutzel, Lewis
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Died at New Albany, Ind., Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Sullivan, John
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              Deserted Nov. 27, '62.
            
            
              Sullivan, Charles
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Sweeney, Lisander
              Warren county
              Aug. 14
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Mar. 6, '65.
            
            
              Thomas, Edmond
              Warren county
              Aug. 9
              Deserted Feb. 20, '63.
            
            
              Vanover, Samuel
              Warren county
              Aug. 19
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Volz, Jacob
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Waggoner, Samuel
              Warren county
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Waggoner, John J.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Transferred to V. R. C., '64.
            
            
              Whitesel, James M.
              Warren county
              Aug. 12
              Discharged April 7, '63.
            
            
              Wilkison, Gideon
              Warren county
              Aug. 16
              Missing at Chickamauga, Sept. 19, '63.
            
            
              Recruits.
            
            
              Alexander, Samuel
              Warren county
              Mar. 24, '64
              Died at Indianapolis April 7, '64.
            
            
              Boyer, Landis
              Warren county
              Mar. 24, '64
              Transf'd to 51st Regiment, June 5, '65.
            
            
              Crabb, Joseph
              Warren county
              Nov. 30, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Crabb, Washington
              Warren county
              Nov. 30, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Egan, James
              Warren county
              April 9, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Hodge, Willis
              Warren county
              Jan. 1, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Ingersoll, Charles W.
              Warren county
              Mar. 5, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Rock, Samuel F.
              Warren county
              Nov. 30, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Sheets, Frederick
              Warren county
              Jan. 1, '64
              Died at home, Nov. 8, '64.
            
            
              Sellers, Isaac
              Warren county
              Jan. 1, '64
              Died at Williamsport, Ind., Oct. 8, '64
            
            
              Wallace, Clinton
              Warren county
              Mar. 24, '64
              Transf'd to 51st Regiment, June 5, '65.
            
            
              Wallace, Green
              Warren county
              Mar. 24, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Waugh, James
              Warren county
              Mar. 24, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Waugh, Van S.
              Warren county
              Mar. 3, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Whitehead, James
              Warren county
              Mar. 1, '64
              " " "
            
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY E.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of  Muster.  1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Billings, Harmon M.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Anderson, Peter W.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Cronkhite, Stephen
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as First Sergeant.
            
            
              Fisher, Abram
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Rosebraugh, Norman
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Shipps, John M.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Died at Murfreesboro, Feb. 3, '63.
            
            
              Kiser, John W.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Transf'd to Engineer Corps Aug. 7, '64.
            
            
              Cronkhite, Hosea
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Anderson, William
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 15, '63.
            
            
              Kellett, John
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as private.
            
            
              Helms, Francis M.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Goodwin, James S.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Woodward, James H.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Dec. 4, '63, for promotion.
            
            
              Wolf, William
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Unger, George
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 24, '63.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Anderson, Joseph V.
              Independence
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Feb. 12, '63.
            
            
              Bainbridge, John
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Died at Bowling Green ,Ky., Nov. 15, '62.
            
            
              Barkshire, Edward H.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 24, '63.
            
            
              Bartlett, Thomas J.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Briggs, Joseph C.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Brown, William W.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 26, '63.
            
            
              Bush, William F.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Died at Danville, Ky., Nov. 2, '62.
            
            
              Buell, Alexander W.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Butler, Henry M.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 26, '63.
            
            
              Caldwell, John N.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Carithers, George
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Clinton, James H.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Killed at Stone's River Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Cloyd, Samuel F.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Discharged May 16, '65.
            
            
              Crawford, William M.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Died at Camp Denison, O., Dec. 6, '62.
            
            
              Crawford, James S.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Missing at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Crawford, John H.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Died at Silver Springs, Tenn., Nov. 13, '62.
            
            
              Cronkhite, Levi A.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Cronkhite, Luke
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Died at Louisville, Aug. 9, '64; wounds.
            
            
              Cronkhite, Henry C.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Killed at Mission Ridge Nov. 25, '63.
            
            
              Crow, William H.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Died at Louisville, Ky., June 22, '63.
            
            
              Demoss, Job
              State Line
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 11, '63.
            
            
              Dowler, Robert C.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Feb. 14, '63.
            
            
              Duncan, William
              State Line
              Sept. 4
              Discharged June 26, '63.
            
            
              Elwell, George O.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 8, '63.
            
            
              Evans, Oliver M.
              State Line
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 20, '63.
            
            
              Fleming, William B.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Killed at Stone's River Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Flesher, Henry B.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Hospital Steward.
            
            
              Gallamore, Marion
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Dec. 11, '62.
            
            
              Galamore, Milton
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Killed at Mission Ridge, Nov. 25, '63.
            
            
              Gaskins, William F.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, 65.
            
            
              Gibson, Campbell
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Feb. 26, '63.
            
            
              Griner, Peter
              State Line
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., March 1, '65.
            
            
              Griner, Robert
              State Line
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 10, '63.
            
            
              Haines, Mahlon J.
              Indianapolis
              Sept. 4
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              Hall, William J.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Dec. 11, '63.
            
            
              Harper, David D.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hatton, Francis M.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Henderson, Benj. H.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 11, '63.
            
            
              Hendricks, John D.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              High, Tilman H.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Missing at Chickamauga Sept. 20, '63.
            
            
              Horn, William
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Houchin, Daniel
              State Line
              Sept. 4
              Deserted from hospital July 15, '64.
            
            
              Hunter, William C.
              
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 4, '63.
            
            
              Johnson, James D.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Johnson, John A.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Died Jan. 8, '63; wounds received at Stone's River.
            
            
              Johnson, Solomon
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Feb. 13, '63.
            
            
              Kiser, Joe H.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, 65.
            
            
              Kiser, Alexander
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Kiser, William W.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Lighty, Solomon
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Died at Knoxville, Tenn., Jan. 23, '64.
            
            
              Lockwood, Wm W.
              Peru
              Sept. 4
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 10, '65.
            
            
              Low, John
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Transf'd to Engineer Corps Aug. 16, '64.
            
            
              McCoughtry, Fr. W.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 13, '63.
            
            
              McNett, Jasper
              Attica
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              McNett, Newton
              Attica
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Morrison, William H.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Nail, Henson T.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Patterson, Lewis
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Discharged June 4, '63.
            
            
              Parro, Paul
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Missing at Chickamauga Sept. 20, '63.
            
            
              Powell, John
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Discharged July 23, '64.
            
            
              Ransom, Reuben W.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Discharged June 30, '63.
            
            
              Rodgers, William
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Rosebraugh, Samuel
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Died at Gallatin, Tenn., Jan. 15, '63.
            
            
              Salisbury, Cyrus
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Jan. 24, '63.
            
            
              Simpson, Eleazer C.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Simpson, Allen
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Feb. 3, '63.
            
            
              Smart, John D.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
            
              Smith, Thomas J.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Trans'd to Engineer Corps Aug. 7, '64.
            
            
              Snodgrass, Joseph H.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Starry, Daniel L.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Starry, Nicholas H.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Transfered to Signal Corps Oct. 22, '63.
            
            
              Swank, James C.
              West Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Swank, Watson C.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Died Oct. 30, '62.
            
            
              Thomas, Erasmus D.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Promoted Adjutant.
            
            
              Wagner, Frederick
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Wheeler, John B.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Jan. 7, '63.
            
            
              White, Cornelius V.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out Aug. 26, '65.
            
            
              White, William H.
              Marshfield
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wilson, John
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Nov. 15, '62.
            
            
              Wolf, George
              Sullivan county
              Sept. 4
              Discharged July 15, '63.
            
            
              Woodard, Harrison H.
              Williamsport
              Sept. 4
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn., May 14, '63.
            
            
              Recruit.
            
            
              Hasler, George W.
              Marshfield
              Apr. 15, '64
              Transf'd to 51st Regiment, June 5, '65.
            
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY F.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of Muster. 1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Wilson, John M.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Killed at Stone's River Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Olive, David H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Promoted First Lieutenant Co. H.
            
            
              Howard, James A.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Killed at Chickamauga Sept. 20, '63.
            
            
              Nichols, William A.
              Zionsville
              Aug. 11
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 10, '65.
            
            
              Cameron, David D.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 21, '63.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Endicott, William C.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 12, '65.
            
            
              Black, John D.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as private.
            
            
              Stephens, William H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged April 16, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Stogdell, William C.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Killed at Stone's River Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Robinson, James F.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died Nov. 27, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Nichols, Henry M.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              Van Eaton, Erastus
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Transferred to Engineer Corps.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Sullivan, John
              Jefferson
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Miller, Mark D.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              " " "
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Chaffee, Benjamin
              Thorntown
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Feb. 4, '63.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Baldwin, George
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died Jan. 15, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Beard, John C.
              Zionsville
              Aug. 11
              Died Jan. 18,'63; wounds.
            
            
              Beard, Milton
              Whitestown
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Bradshaw, Stephen S.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 5, 65.
            
            
              Brown, John W.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Nov. 18, '62.
            
            
              Burk, John J.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Supposed to have been drowned.
            
            
              Byroad, David
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Byroad, Peter
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died at Atlanta, Ga., Oct. 5, '64.
            
            
              Byroad, William
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Caldwell, Andrew J.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              " " "
            
            
              Chenoweth, Joseph
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn, May 18, '63.
            
            
              Clark, Alfred D.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Deserted Nov. 16, '62.
            
            
              Clark, Joel N.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Deserted Nov. 6, '62.
            
            
              Clark, John H.
              Dublin
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Craner, Thomas J.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died at Bowling Green, Ky., Dec. 2, '62.
            
            
              Creamer, Robert H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
            
              Cunningham, Isaac
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged July 30, '63.
            
            
              Cunningham, Sylv'r
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Deserted Nov. 6, '62.
            
            
              Davis, Henry W.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Davis, Morgan
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Dennis, Andrew
              Mechanicsburg
              Aug. 11
              Died Lt Camp Chase, O., March 4, '65.
            
            
              Doughty, Allen H.
              Elmira, N. Y.
              Aug. 11
              Transferred to V. R. C., Jan. 28, '65.
            
            
              Downing, James A.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Feb. 2, '65.
            
            
              Duchemin, Daniel T.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out May 19, '65.
            
            
              Duchemin, Eli D.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Died at Chattanooga, Oct. 22, '64.
            
            
              Elliott, Samuel
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged May 27, '63.
            
            
              Floyd, Jacob
              Zionsville
              Aug. 11
              Died at Indianapolis, Dec. 17, '62.
            
            
              Franklin, John L.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn., June 8, '63.
            
            
              Gill, James E.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Discharged June 6, '63.
            
            
              Green, Robert W.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn., Feb. 22, '63.
            
            
              Hardwick, John S.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Sept. 21, '64.
            
            
              Hayes, Patrick
              Danville
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hendricks, Marks D.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Deserted Feb. 1, '63.
            
            
              Hickson, James W.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Honon, John
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out Aug. 1, '65.
            
            
              Ingram, Thomas
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Feb. 24, '63.
            
            
              Inlow, James
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Kelly, John S.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died at Chattanooga, Tenn., April 1, '65.
            
            
              Kent, John
              Thorntown
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Kersey, Stephen J.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged April 9, '63.
            
            
              Lane, Edward A. J.
              Zionsville
              Aug. 11
              Transferred to V. R. C., Sept. 2, '63.
            
            
              Lane, Jeremiah
              Zionsville
              Aug. 11
              Discharged April 9, '63.
            
            
              Lane, William H.
              Zionsville
              Aug. 11
              Died at Huntsville, Ala., Feb. 17, '65.
            
            
              Lasley, Aaron
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 13, '65.
            
            
              Laymon, Wilson H.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 11
              Promoted Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              Martin, James A.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Martin, William H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Deserted Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              McCoy, Martin M.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died at Madison, Ind., Feb. 10, '65.
            
            
              Miller, John
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Died in Camp, Dec. 16, '62.
            
            
              Miller, Sylvanus S.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Dec. 11, '63.
            
            
              Nichols, Benjamin F.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 4, '63.
            
            
              O'Leary, Patrick
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Deserted Oct. 1, '62.
            
            
              Openchain, Johnson
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged March 28, '63.
            
            
              Saunders, James W.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Transferred to V. R. C., April 28, '63.
            
            
              Slagle, Benjamin
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, 65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Smith, Andrew J.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Supposed to be dead.
            
            
              Smith, Isaac H.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Smith, John
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              " " "
            
            
              Smith, John R.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 11
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., June 8, '63.
            
            
              Smith, Sidney M.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Died at Nashville Tenn., Dec. 10, '62.
            
            
              Stephenson, Edwin P.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Stork, George
              Keokuk, Iowa
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out Aug. 9, '65.
            
            
              Thomas, John E.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6 '65.
            
            
              Thornton, Robert B.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 11
              " " "
            
            
              Tipton, Eli A.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Died Nov. 27, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Tipton, John G.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Dec. 5, '62.
            
            
              Tolen, James O.
              Danville
              Aug. 11
              Killed at Stone' River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Vantuyle, Jerome B.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Walter, Horace
              Whitestown
              Aug. 11
              Deserted Aug. 31, '64.
            
            
              Warren, Marion M.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 11
              Died at Columbia, Ky., Nov. 11, '64.
            
            
              Warren, Seth C.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 11
              Transf'd to Mississippi Marine Brigade.
            
            
              Washburn, C. S. R.
              Boxley
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wilkins, James M.
              Colfax
              Aug. 11
              Supposed to have been killed at Stone's River.
            
            
              Willard, Henry H.
              Covington
              Aug. 11
              Deserted Nov. 26, '62.
            
            
              Worley, Enoch R.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65 as First Sergeant.
            
            
              Worley, John W.
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Welsh, John
              Frankfort
              Aug. 11
              " " "
            
            
              Wilson, Joshua F.
              Lebanon
              Aug. 11
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 15, '64.
            
            
              Wood, Oliver
              Northfield
              Aug. 11
              Died Dec. 26, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Recruit.
            
            
              Tipton, Winfield S.
              Northfield
              Jan. 1, '64
              Transf'd to 51st Regiment June 5, '65.
            
          
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY G.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of Muster. 1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Ream, Littleton V.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 7
              Promoted Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Hesser, Theodore
              Frankfort
              Aug. 3
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              Crawford, Isaac L.
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Discharged Jan. —, '63; accidental wounds.
            
            
              Douglass, John A.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 5
              Transf'd V. R. C.; must'd out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Snyder, John
              Frankfort
              Aug. 10
              Must'd out June 6, '65, as 1st Sergeant.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Reed, Robert P.
              Jefferson
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Cain, Francis M.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 16
              Transferred to V. R. C. Sept. 7, '63.
            
            
              Luddington, Harvey
              Michigantown
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 7, '65.
            
            
              Weddle, Jacob
              Michigantown
              Aug. 7
              Transferred to V. R. C. Oct. 14, '63.
            
            
              Stotter, Howard
              Frankfort
              Aug. 5
              Mustered out June 14, '65 as private.
            
            
              Reed, William D.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 12
              Died at Jeffersonville July 15, '64; wounds.
            
            
              Elliott, Jesse
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Died at Louisville Nov. 25, '62.
            
            
              Reed, John
              Jefferson
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Aughe, Joseph W.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 10
              Deserted Oct. 12, '62.
            
            
              Sipes, James
              Frankfort
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Norris, George W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Alexander, Abraham
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Discharged Feb. 16, '63.
            
            
              Alexander, James
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 23, '63.
            
            
              Alexander, Alfred
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Discharged May 6, '63.
            
            
              Alexander, William
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Discharged Oct. 17, '63.
            
            
              Allen, Benjamin W.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Died at Nashville Feb. 28, '63.
            
            
              Anderson, James W.
              Cooperston, Ills.
              Aug. 5
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Bolt, Levi G.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Discharged April 11, '63.
            
            
              Bolt, William J.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Died at Louisville Jan. 27, '64.
            
            
              Bowers, William
              Clinton county
              Aug. 10
              Died at Chattanooga Nov. 6, '63.
            
            
              Blackburn, Joseph B.
              Berlin
              Aug. 9
              Mustered out June 6, '65; Corporal.
            
            
              Brobst, Nathan
              Frankfort
              Aug. 9
              Mustered out June 14, '65.
            
            
              Boyer, Charles F.
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Died at Nashville Feb. 10, '63.
            
            
              Boyer, James
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 9
              Discharged April 18, '63.
            
            
              Brafford, Jacob B.
              Jefferson
              Aug. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Bundy, Miles M.
              Berlin
              Aug. 7
              Deserted from hospital Nov. 12, '62.
            
            
              Burns, Joseph J.
              Burnside
              Aug. 5
              Mustered out June 13, '65.
            
            
              Cambridge, James
              Michigantown
              Aug. 9
              Killed at Stone's River Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Cook, Robert
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Discharged Nov. 23, '62.
            
            
              Cook, George W.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Cook, Jesse
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              " " "
            
            
              Collins, Silas T.
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Transf'd V. R. C. Dec. 12, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Collins, George M.
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Cowdry, Loren G.
              Michiganton
              Aug. 10
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              Cutts, Jeffrey O.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Discharged Dec. 9, '64; wounds.
            
            
              Devoll, Allen
              Frankfort
              Aug. 8
              Transf'd V. R. C.; must'd out July 24, 65.
            
            
              Devorse, Josiah
              Michigantown
              Aug. 15
              Deserted Oct. 6, '62.
            
            
              Douglass, Martin
              Frankfort
              Aug. 16
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Duskey, Jehiel C.
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 9
              Discharged May 15, '63.
            
            
              Devolt, Thomas
              Frankfort
              Aug. 8
              Deserted Aug. 25, '62; disch'd April 24, '64.
            
            
              Edwards, William H.
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Edwards, Ephriam T.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 10
              " " "
            
            
              Elliott, Francis M.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Discharged Jan. 27, '63.
            
            
              Elliott, John C.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 15
              Died at Nashville Nov. 26, '62.
            
            
              Fisher, Josephus
              Berlin
              Aug. 7
              Died at Murfreesboro Feb. 19, '63.
            
            
              Fisher, George M.
              Berlin
              Aug. 7
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Godby, William W.
              Berlin
              Aug. 9
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Gentry, Wyatt A.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 6
              Mustered out June 6, '65 as Sergeant.
            
            
              Grover, John C.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 8
              Transf'd to Signal Corps June 3, '63.
            
            
              Grover, James M.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 8
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Gue, Francis A.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 6
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Gue, Peter L.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 6
              " " "
            
            
            
              Healy, Matthew
              Frankfort
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Hesser, Jacob A.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 9
              Discharged Feb. 28, '63.
            
            
              Hunt, James L.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 5
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Dec. 22, '62.
            
            
              Jackson, Ninevah
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Discharged May 11, '63.
            
            
              King, John W.
              Clinton county
              Aug. 15
              Supposed to be dead.
            
            
              Kirkpatrick, Andr'w
              Russiaville
              Aug. 10
              Died at Mt. Vernon, Ky., Nov. 2, '62.
            
            
              Knickerbocker, H.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 7
              Transferred to V. R. C., Sept. 29, '63.
            
            
              Kyger, James
              Jefferson
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 7, '65.
            
            
              Layton, Irvin R.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 6
              Discharged Aug. 17, '64.
            
            
              Lowring, Nathaniel
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 10
              Discharged April 21, '63.
            
            
              Macy, Marcus M.
              Thorntown
              Aug. 6
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Maltbie, Joshua
              Michigantown
              Aug. 6
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Maltbie, Jacob
              Ladoga
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Moore, Alonzo S. W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 12
              " " "
            
            
              Neaves, Daniel
              Clinton county
              Aug. 9
              Mustered out Sept. 5, '65.
            
            
              Norris, George H.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Paxson, Benjamin F.
              Mortonsville
              Aug. 10
              Transferred to V. R. C., Feb. 15, '65.
            
            
              Pickard, Albert
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Discharged April 11, '63.
            
            
              Pickard, Porter
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Discharged July 21, '63.
            
            
              Price, Zachariah
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 3
              Discharged Sept. —, '62.
            
            
              Reed, James
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Deserted; discharged April 24, '64.
            
            
              Rathfon, Jonas H.
              Russiaville
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Raymond, Harlan
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 18
              Transferred to V. R. C., Aug. 1, '63.
            
            
              Reed, Robert
              Jefferson
              Aug. 15
              Discharged May 11, '63.
            
            
              Reed, Joseph G.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Roush, John J.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 13
              Discharged Sept. 25, '63.
            
            
              Scott, John O.
              Berlin
              Aug. 9
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Sharp, George P.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 9
              Discharged Dec. 2, '63.
            
            
              Shaw, James L.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 17
              Discharged Sept. 8, '63.
            
            
              Skidmore, Solomon
              Frankfort
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Tull, George W.
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Transf'd to V. R. C., March 17, '64.
            
            
              Urp, Allen
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Mustered out June 14, '65.
            
            
              West, John
              Frankfort
              Aug. 7
              " " "
            
            
              Willis, Leander
              Kokomo
              Aug. 4
              Died at Louisville, Ky., June 28, '63.
            
            
              Williams, James T.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 6
              Discharged May 16, '63.
            
            
              Wiles, Joseph H.
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 9
              Transf'd V. R. C.; discharged March 11, 65.
            
            
              Whiteman, A. W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 10
              Discharged April 22, '63.
            
            
              Whitsell, William T.
              Jefferson
              Aug. 9
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Wills, Israel
              Pickard's Mills
              Aug. 7
              Died at Chattanooga, Tenn., Nov. 6, '63.
            
            
              Zook, George
              Frankfort
              Aug. 16
              Discharged April 10, '63.
            
            
              Recruits.
            
            
              Alexander, John T.
              Pickard's Mills
              Feb. 25, '65
              Mustered out May 18, '65.
            
            
              Ashley, Charles W.
              Colfax
              Feb. 24, '65
              Transferred to 51st Reg't, June 5, '65.
            
            
              Bechdol, Andrew F.
              Walton
              Feb. 24, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Bechdol, John
              Walton
              Feb. 24, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Booher, John W.
              Walton
              Mar. 9, '64
              Transferred to V. R. C., Jan. 16, '65.
            
            
              Carter, David B.
              Mortonsville
              Feb. 12, '64
              Transferred to 51st Reg't, June 5, '65.
            
            
              Carter, Nathaniel R.
              Mortonsville
              Feb. 12, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Cowdrey, Joseph A.
              Walton
              Mar. 9, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Edwards, Alfred
              Michigantown
              Feb. 12, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Minick, Justus
              Walton
              Mar. 9, '64
              " " "
            
            
              Nichols, Marshall F.
              Walton
              Feb. 12, '64
              Died at Indianapolis April 30, '64.
            
            
              Ransopher, Levi S.
              Mortonsville
              Feb. 16, '64
              Transferred to 51st Reg't, June 5, '65.
            
            
              Wyant, Wesley C.
              Colfax
              Feb. 24, '65
              " " "
            
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY H.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of Muster. 1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Douglass, Isaac W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 4
              Discharged Jan. 13, '63.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Paris, Thomas M.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 1, '63.
            
            
            
              Lynch, John M.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 12
              Discharged Oct. 30, '62.
            
            
              Douglass, William E.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 12
              Discharged March 28, '63.
            
            
              Roush, Timothy S.
              Geetingsville
              Aug. 12
              Killed at Stone's River, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Nees, William J.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 22
              Promoted Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              Paxton, Benjamin W.
              Mortonville
              Aug. 22
              Died at Huntsville, Ala., Jan. 31, '65.
            
            
              Hobson, William P.
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 12
              Transferred V. R. C., Aug. 1, '63.
            
            
              Barnes, David R.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 14
              Died at home May 1, '64.
            
            
              Pence, David P.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 14
              Discharged Feb. 8, '63.
            
            
              Trulock, William H.
              Rossville
              Aug. 22
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as private.
            
            
              Gallagher, Fielding
              Michigantown
              Aug. 22
              Discharged May 28, '63.
            
            
              Cast, John M.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 22
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as 1st Serg't.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Mellenger, William A.
              Rossville
              Aug. 22
              Mustered out May 17, '65.
            
            
              Packer, John D.
              Mulberry
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              McQuade, David
              Michigantown
              Aug. 14
              Discharged May 8, '65.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Ashpaugh, William
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Bacon, Joel M.
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 14
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 29, '62.
            
            
              Baker, Alonzo
              Berlin
              Aug. 14
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 10, '65.
            
            
              Baker, George W.
              Berlin
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Barnes, James A.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 11
              " " "
            
            
              Barnes, William W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Boyce, Allen W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 13
              Transferred V. R. C., Aug. '63.
            
            
              Brammell, James W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 13
              Died at Bowling Green, Ky., Feb. 24, '63.
            
            
              Burgett, William M.
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Cambridge, John
              Michigantown
              Aug. 10
              " " "
            
            
              Carney, Michael
              Rossville
              Aug. 15
              Discharged Jan. 3, '63.
            
            
              Carter, Jesse W.
              Mortonville
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Cash, John
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 15
              Discharged March 9, '63.
            
            
              Cassman, Ethan H.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 12
              Died at Louisville Dec. 8, '62.
            
            
              Cassman, Theodore L.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 17, '65.
            
            
              Colson, William
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 12
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 16, '63.
            
            
              Cox, Perry
              Michigantown
              Aug. 10
              Transferred V. R. C., Nov. 1, '63.
            
            
              Crane, David
              Frankfort
              Aug. 10
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Elder, Richard
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 16
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Elder, John
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 16
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Fisher, John W.
              Rossville
              Aug. 16
              " " "
            
            
              Friend, Paul T.
              Mortonsville
              Aug. 17
              " " "
            
            
              Friend, Leander W.
              Mortonsville
              Aug. 17
              " " "
            
            
              Galbreath, Richard
              Michigantown
              Aug. 17
              " " "
            
            
              Goff, Amos Sr.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 14
              Discharged Nov. 22, '62.
            
            
              Goff, Amos Jr.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 13
              Discharged April 7, '63.
            
            
              Grose, Jefferson
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 13
              Deserted Feb. 1, '63.
            
            
              Gum, Harrison N.
              Burnside
              Aug. 10
              Died at Knoxville, Tenn., March 2, '64.
            
            
              Hill, Atkinson
              Michigantown
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Holler, Noah
              Rossville
              Aug. 14
              Deserted Oct. 15, '62.
            
            
              Jackson, Henry
              Michigantown
              Aug. 14
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., March 8, '63.
            
            
              Jenkins, Howard
              Michigantown
              Aug. 18
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Johnson, Claiborne
              Frankfort
              Aug. 18
              Died at Chattanooga March 31, '64.
            
            
              Kemper, Samuel
              Rossville
              Aug. 15
              Transf'd to 51st Reg't to make up lost time.
            
            
              Kimball, Andrew
              Burnside
              Aug. 14
              Discharged Jan. 31, '63.
            
            
              Leach, Calvin F.
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 13
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              London, Alexander
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 17
              Discharged Jan. 31, '63.
            
            
              Leidy, Levi
              Berlin
              Aug. 12
              Died at Nashville, Jan. 9, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Mann, John W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              McAdams, William F.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 12
              " " "
            
            
              McCamish, George W.
              Rossville
              Aug. 20
              Discharged May 6, '63.
            
            
              McDaniel, John
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 21
              Deserted Nov. 1, '63.
            
            
              McClelland, Jefferson
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 21
              Killed at Mission Ridge, Nov. 25, '63.
            
            
              Miller, John A.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 20
              Deserted Nov. 5, '63.
            
            
              Michaels, Isaac
              Michigantown
              Aug. 20
              Discharged Aug. 24, '63.
            
            
              Morrison, Hiram
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 18
              Died at Gallatin, Tenn., Feb. 16, '63.
            
            
              Morrison, James M.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Died at Knoxville, Tenn., Oct. 27, '64.
            
            
              Orr, Matthew E.
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 15
              Discharged July 19, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Ostler, Jacob
              Michigantown
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Packer, Charles
              Mulberry
              Aug. 12
              Died at Bull's Gap, Tenn., April 6, '64.
            
            
            
              Parks, Thomas B.
              Rossville
              Aug. 14
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Parker, Luke
              Michigantown
              Aug. 14
              " " "
            
            
              Petrie, Henry
              Michigantown
              Aug. 14
              " " "
            
            
              Price, David F.
              Frankfort
              Aug. 14
              Discharged Oct. 17, '63.
            
            
              Redwine, James C.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 14
              Deserted Oct. 16, '62.
            
            
              Rodgers, John
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 17
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Rollins, Henry
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 20
              Died at Nashville July 26, '63.
            
            
              Roush, Sebastian
              Geetingsville
              Aug. 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Rowe, Jesse
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 21
              Discharged April 3, '63.
            
            
              Rude, Angus
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 17
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out June 30, 65.
            
            
              Ryan, James F.
              Berlin
              Aug. 22
              Died at Louisville, Ky., April 14, '63.
            
            
              Shaw, James N.
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 22
              Died at Kingston, Ga., Aug. 15, '64; w'ds.
            
            
              Smith, James J.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 22
              Deserted in face of enemy, Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Snodgrass, Samuel
              Berlin
              Aug. 15
              Transferred to V. R. C., Jan. 15, '64.
            
            
              Stroup, Jeptha
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 12
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Dec. 9, '62.
            
            
              Stroup, William
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 12
              Died at Mt. Vernon, Ky., Nov. 1, '62.
            
            
              Swisher, Manasseh
              Kirkland
              Aug. 12
              Died at Indianapolis June 11, '64.
            
            
              Thompson, James W.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 12
              Transf'd to Engineer Corps Aug. 7, '64.
            
            
              Tharp, Mahlon E.
              Rossville
              Aug. 16
              Discharged Jan. 3, '63.
            
            
              Thom, Peter C.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 16
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Ticen, Moses B.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 14
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 17, '63.
            
            
              Ticen, Francis M.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 18
              Discharged Dec. 30, '62.
            
            
              Townsend, Henry S. L.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 19
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 24, '63.
            
            
              Unger, Thomas
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 19
              Died at Chattanooga Jan. 24, 64.
            
            
              Wakeley, Corydon W.
              Michigantown
              Aug. 14
              Discharged June 16, '63.
            
            
              Wellman, Elijah
              Berlin
              Aug. 14
              Discharged May 4, '63.
            
            
              West, William
              Frankfort
              Aug. 15
              Discharged May 21, '63.
            
            
              Whiteman, James M.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 18
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Whiteman, Wm. H. H.
              Middle Fork
              Aug. 18
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wilson, Jethro
              Rossville
              Aug. 19
              Died at Nashville, Jan. 9, '65; wounds.
            
            
              Wilson, John W.
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wordon, John
              Burget's Corn'r
              Aug. 19
              " " "
            
            
              Recruit.
            
            
              Elder, William
              Middle Fork
              Jan. 6, '64
              Transf'd to 51st Regiment, June 5, '65.
            
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY I.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of Muster. 1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Belknap, Myron H.
              Frankfort
              Sept. 4
              Disch'd Apr. 19, '64; w'ds rec'd, Mis. R'dg.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Heaton, John O.
              LaFayette
              Sept. 4
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out July 5, '65.
            
            
              Compton, Benjamin
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Aug. 28, '63.
            
            
              Rhinehart, Allen
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 5, '63.
            
            
              Cosby, John W.
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out May 26, '65, as private.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Belknap ,Leonidas H.
              Frankfort
              Sept. 4
              Discharged April 19, '64.
            
            
              Welsh, Jesse
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Wells, Wesley E.
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Discharged.
            
            
              Storms, George
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              McCain, Thos. H. B.
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              Mohler, Henry
              Rossville
              Sept. 4
              Must'd out June 6, '65, as 1st Sergeant.
            
            
              Brafford, James M.
              Jefferson
              Sept. 4
              Died Dec. 20, '62.
            
            
              Huffman, Absalom
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Died Dec. 16, 63; wounds.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Hammell, Nathan
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Must'd out June 6, '65, as Prin. Musician.
            
            
              Moore, James
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Transferred to V. R. C., Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Cartmill, William
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Died Feb. 10, '63.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Adair, Irwin M.
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant Major.
            
            
              Bailey, Silas
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Bailey, Tighlman
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Bazzle, Jacob D.
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Boyer, John
              Linden
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Bush, John
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 19, '63.
            
            
              Campbell, Samuel
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Jan. 3, '65.
            
            
              Cartmill, Jacob
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Died at Murfreesboro, Tenn., March 10, '63.
            
            
              Chizzum, George W.
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out May 25, '65.
            
            
              Cones, Francis M.
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Jan. 23, '63.
            
            
              Conrad, William H.
              Darlington
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Cosby, Thomas
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Jan. 8, '63.
            
            
              Crick, John F.
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Transferred to V. R. C., Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Custer, Jeptha
              Shannondale
              Sept. 4
              Killed at Mission Ridge, Nov. 25, '63.
            
            
              Dame, Andrew
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Missing at Chickamauga, Sept. 20, '63.
            
            
              Darrough, James A.
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Davis, James H.
              Rossville
              Sept. 4
              Died Jan. 18, '63.
            
            
              Decker, Jacob
              Wyandotte
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Decker, Thomas
              Wyandotte
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Deford, William
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Died Jan. 11, '63.
            
            
              Doster, John
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Transferred to V. R. C., Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Dukes, Jacob
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Fleming, Jacob
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Transferred to V. R. C., April 3, '65.
            
            
              Gant, Jefferson
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Gant, Henry B.
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Jan. 25, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Gibson, William
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Jan. 15, '63.
            
            
              Gregory, James
              LaFayette
              Sept. 4
              Promoted Captain Co. C.
            
            
              Grimes, Wesley
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Died Dec. 26, '62.
            
            
              Harmon, Henry
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Hayden, James B.
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Helm, Samuel
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Horney, Daniel
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Dec. 20, '63.
            
            
              Huffman, George T.
              Darlington
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Irons, John B.
              Darlington
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Lane, John
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Jan. 7, '63.
            
            
              Lane, Samuel
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Discharged July 10, '63.
            
            
              Lukens, Joseph
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Transf'd to U. S. Vet. U. S. Engineers, July 25, '64.
            
            
              Lytle, Benjamin F.
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Lytle, Edward
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Feb. 13, '63.
            
            
              Lytle, James A.
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Sept. 25, '63.
            
            
              Menaugh, James
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out Aug. 24, '65.
            
            
              Michael, John
              Linden
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Michael, William
              Linden
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Mikesell, John W.
              Thorntown
              Sept. 5
              Discharged June 18, '63.
            
            
              Mitchell, Robert
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Discharged June 25, '64.
            
            
              North, Zachariah
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Parker, John T.
              Mulberry
              Sept. 4
              Died at Louisville, Ky., Dec. 11, '62.
            
            
              Parker, Jonathan
              Mulberry
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Parvis, George
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Transferred to V. R. C., Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Patton, George
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Dec. 1, '64; wounds.
            
            
              Peterson, Paris H.
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Killed at Mission Ridge, Nov. 25, '63.
            
            
              Pitman, William
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Jan. 3, '63.
            
            
              Rash, Andrew
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Rash, Lorin
              Crawfordsville
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 28, '65.
            
            
              Rash, Perry
              Crawfordsville
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Sheets, Joseph
              Wyandotte
              Sept. 4
              Transferred to V. R. C., Dec. 12, '64.
            
            
              Skaggs, Silas N.
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Slane, Lane
              Lebanon
              Sept. 4
              " " "
            
            
              Snavely, Jacob
              Thorntown
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 5, '63.
            
            
              Stackhouse, Samuel
              Whitestown
              Sept. 4
              Discharged June 29, '63.
            
            
              Starkey, Daniel
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Discharged Feb. 1, '63.
            
            
              Stinson, Henry
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Stook, John H.
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Died Jan. 18, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Sutton, James H.
              Jefferson
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Switzer, William B.
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Transferred to V. R. C., Jan. 16, '64.
            
            
              Timmons, Andrew
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Deserted Nov. 8, '62.
            
            
              Van Vorhis, F. J.
              Zionsville
              Sept. 4
              Promoted to Asst. Surgeon Dec. 6, '62.
            
            
            
              Vise, William I.
              Frankfort
              Sept. 4
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., March 13, '63.
            
            
              Waddell, Campbell
              Stockwell
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Watkins, Enoch
              Colfax
              Sept. 4
              Discharged March 31, '63.
            
            
              Williams, Robert
              Clark's Hill
              Sept. 4
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Recruits.
            
            
              Marsh, Warren W.
              Kokomo
              Nov. 14, '65
              Transfered to 51st Regt., June 5, '65.
            
            
              Edder, William
              Kokomo
              Nov. 14, '65
              Transferred to 51st Reg't. Jan. 5, '65.
            
          
          
            ENLISTED MEN OF COMPANY K.
            
              NAME AND RANK.
              Residence.
              Date of Muster 1862.
              REMARKS.
            
            
              First Sergeant.
            
            
              Carnahan, James R.
              Dayton
              Aug. 25
              Promoted Second Lieutenant.
            
            
              Sergeants.
            
            
              Ristine, Harley G.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Feb. 13, '63.
            
            
              Holloway, George W.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 17
              Deserted Jan. 20, 63.
            
            
              Snyder, Benjamin F.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 12
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Carter, Jesse
              LaFayette
              Aug. 25
              Discharged April 25, '64; wounds.
            
            
              Corporals.
            
            
              Blair, John W., Jr.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Feb. 3, '63.
            
            
              Spilman, Robert B.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 11
              Promoted Captain.
            
            
              Barton, William
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 15
              Deserted Nov. 20, '62.
            
            
              Sater, Aaron H.
              Mt. Pleasant
              Aug. 20
              Must'd out June 6, '65, as Q. M. Sergeant.
            
            
              McClelland, Alfred J.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 11
              Discharged Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Engle, John B.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Underwood, Robert
              Oxford
              Aug. 23
              Promoted Quartermaster.
            
            
              Musicians.
            
            
              Naylor, Charles
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 22
              Died at Bowling Green, Ky., Nov. 1, '62.
            
            
              Bennett, John S.
              Prairie Edge
              Aug. 20
              Must'd out May 25, '65, as Prin. Musician.
            
            
              Wagoner.
            
            
              Vanhook, Andrew J.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 18
              Transferred to V. R. C., Sept. 1, 63.
            
            
              Privates.
            
            
              Allhands, George
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Discharged May 12, 63.
            
            
              Baldwin, William J.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 18
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Ball, Oliver
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 18
              " " "
            
            
              Beard Thomas J.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 22
              Discharged Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Bone, Joseph S.
              LaFayette
              Aug. 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Bone, William H.
              LaFayette
              Aug. 20
              " " "
            
            
              Burk, George W.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 23
              
            
            
              Carroll, Joseph S.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 25
              Discharged Dec. 29, '63.
            
            
              Carter, Edwin R.
              Brookston
              Aug. 25
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Curtis, John
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 26
              Deserted from 51st Reg't; returned to Regiment.
            
            
              Dice, William A.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 28
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Edwards, James G.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 28
              Discharged Jan. 10, '63.
            
            
              Engle, Talton
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Discharged Dec. 31, '64.
            
            
              Farley, William
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Sent to penitentiary by civil authority for bigamy.
            
            
              Fergeson, John
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Mustered out June 6, 65.
            
            
              Fergeson, Isaac W.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              " " "
            
            
              Forbes, William J.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Discharged Feb. 26, '63.
            
            
              Galey, William L.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 23
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Galloway, George
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Died at Indianapolis Sept. 5, '62.
            
            
              Green, James
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 13
              Transf' to the l9th U. S. Inf'y, Dec. 4, '62.
            
            
              Green, Bartholmew
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 13
              Died Jan. 9, '63; wounds rec'd at Stone's River.
            
            
              Griffith, Thomas B.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 11
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Gwinn, John W.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 28
              Discharged Jan. 14, '63.
            
            
              Hall, Henry C.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 29
              Discharged Jan. 13, '63.
            
            
              Harrington, James A.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 24
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
            
              Harris, Alexander
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 24
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Harris, Peter
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Discharged Oct. 14, '62.
            
            
              Howard, Tilghman A.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 25
              Must'd out June 6, '65, as 1st Sergeant.
            
            
              Jester, Alexander
              LaFayette
              Aug. 22
              Died at Somerset, Ky., Oct. 28, '62.
            
            
              Kelly, John [1st]
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Kelly, John [2d]
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 29
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Larue, Garrett
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Transf'd to Engineers Corps Aug. 7, '64.
            
            
              Lawson, Branson H.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 25
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Linn, Joseph R.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 28
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Sergeant.
            
            
              Long, Samuel K.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 23
              Discharged Jan. 15, '65.
            
            
              Lynch, Patrick
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 12
              Transf'd to the 19th U. S. Infantry Dec. 4, '62.
            
            
              Lytle, William F.
              LaFayette
              Aug. 16
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Moore, John D.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Transferred to V. R. C. Jan. 10, '65.
            
            
              Moore, Harvey H. M.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 24
              Mustered out June 6, '65 as Corporal.
            
            
              Murray, Hiram M.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 25
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Osborn, Warren
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 26
              Died at Danville, Ky., Dec. 25, '62.
            
            
              Oxley, Joseph H.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 23
              Discharged March 7, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Pattison, Joseph C.
              LaFayette
              Aug. 23
              Killed at Brownsboro, Ala., by R.R. accident Jan. 23, 65.
            
            
              Peed, Henry
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 23
              Must'd out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Peed, Oliver H.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 22
              " " "
            
            
              Pickerill, James L.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 22
              Discharged Feb. 27, '63.
            
            
              Potts, Elisha
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 25
              Discharged Dec. 13, '64.
            
            
              Prine, James M.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 24
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Reilly, Hugh
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 28
              Promoted First Lieutenant.
            
            
              Sanders, William W.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 29
              Killed at Nashville Dec. 15, '94.
            
            
              Slattery, John
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 29
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Smith, Charles
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Discharged March 9, '63.
            
            
              Smith, Elisha
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 19
              Died at Chattanooga, Feb. 4, '65.
            
            
              Swank, Wilson
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 15
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Swank, James R.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 17
              " " "
            
            
              Swank, John
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Discharged April 27, '63.
            
            
              Swindler, Henry H.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Transferred to V. R. C. Sept. 2, '63.
            
            
              Thomas, James R.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 18
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Thompson, John M.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Discharged Feb. 5, '63.
            
            
              Urmston, Jonathan T.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Died Oct. 21, '63; wounds.
            
            
              Vanhorn, John S.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 18
              Mustered out June 6, '65, as Corporal.
            
            
              Wainscott, Elias
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Wainscott, Francis M.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              " " "
            
            
              Walker, Samuel M.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 15
              " " "
            
            
              Walker, Adam H.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              " " "
            
            
              Walker, Albert B.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 17
              " " "
            
            
              Ward, Dennis
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 22
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out July 7, '65.
            
            
              Ward, William W.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 22
              Mustered out June 6, '65.
            
            
              Watson, James
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              " " "
            
            
              Wetherald, Isaac B.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 17
              " " "
            
            
              Welch, Morris
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 19
              Transf'd to V. R. C.; must'd out June 30, '65.
            
            
              Whitted, William
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 22
              Discharged July 10, '63.
            
            
              Willey, Foster C.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 20
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 29, '63.
            
            
              Williams, James
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 25
              Mustered out May 17, '65.
            
            
              Williams, Martin L.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 26
              Killed at Stone's River Dec. 31, '62.
            
            
              Wisong, William M.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 11
              Died at Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 27, '62.
            
            
              Wisong, Francis M.
              Crawfordsville
              Aug. 16
              Mustered out June 28, '65.
            
          
          
          
            THE CANTEEN.
            
              There are bonds of all sorts in this world of ours,
              Fetters of friendship and ties of flowers,
              And true lovers' knots I ween;
              The girl and the boy are bound by a kiss,
              But there's never a bond, old friend, like this—
              We have drunk from the same canteen.
            
            
              It was sometimes water and sometimes milk,
              And sometimes applejack, fine as silk,
              But whate'er the tipple has been,
              We shared it together in bane or bliss,
              And I warm to you, friend, when I think of this—
              We have drunk from the same canteen.
            
            
              The rich and the great sit down to dine,
              And they quaff to each other in sparkling wine,
              From glasses of crystal and green;
              But I guess in their potations they miss
              The warmth of regard to be found in this—
              We have drunk from the same canteen.
            
            
              We have shared our blankets and tents together,
              And have marched and fought in all kinds of weather,
              And hungry and full have we been;
              Had days of battle and days of rest,
              But this memory I cling to and love the best—
              We have drunk from the same canteen.
            
            
              For when wounded I lay on the outer slope,
              With my blood flowing fast, and with little hope
              Upon which my faint spirit could lean,
              Oh, then, I remember, you crawled to my sfde,
              And bleeding so fast it seemed both must have died,
              We drunk from the some canteen.
            
            MILES O'REILLY.
          
        
        
        
          THE EIGHTY-SIXTH'S ROLL OF HONOR.
          
            OFFICERS AND ENLISTED MEN WHO LOST THEIR LIVES IN THE SERVICE
              DURING THE WAR OF THE REBELLION.
            
              NAME.
              Rank.
              Co.
              Cause.
              Place.
              Date of Death.
            
            
              Southard, William M.
              Captain
              K
              Killed
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 25, '63
            
            
              Smith, George W.
              First Lieut'nt
              A
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Doster, James T.
              Second Lieut
              I
              Disease
              Colfax
              Dec. 19, '63
            
            
              Armer, George E.
              Private
              B
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Ashba, Benjamin A.
              Private
              B
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Oct. 1, '63
            
            
              Alexander, Samuel
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Indianapolis
              April 7, '64
            
            
              Anderson, William
              Corporal
              E
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 15, '63
            
            
              Alexander, James
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 23, '63
            
            
              Allen, Benjamin W.
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 28, '63
            
            
              Blevins, William
              Private
              A
              Wounds
              Murfreesboro
              Jan. 5, '63
            
            
              Boyd, William
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Louisville, Ky.
              Nov. 26, '62
            
            
              Bierman, Christian
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Richmond, Va.
              Dec. 6, '63
            
            
              Blanchfill, Edward
              Private
              C
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Boord, William J.
              Private
              C
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Boszor, Francis J.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              May 9, '63
            
            
              Brown, John D.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 12, '63
            
            
              Butcher, James S.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 27, '65
            
            
              Brady, Elias
              Musician
              D
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              Dec. 11, '63
            
            
              Beaver, John
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Annapolis, Md.
              Feb. 10, '63
            
            
              Bainbridge, John
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Bowling Green
              Nov. 15, '62
            
            
              Barkshire, Edward H.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 24, '63
            
            
              Bush, William F.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Danville, Ky.
              Nov. 2, '62
            
            
              Butler, Henry M.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 26, '63
            
            
              Baldwin, George
              Private
              F
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 15, '63
            
            
              Beard, John C.
              Private
              F
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 18, '63
            
            
              Brown, John W.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Louisville, Ky.
              Nov. 18, '62
            
            
              Burk, John J.
              Private
              F
              
              
              
            
            
              Byroad, Peter
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Atlanta, Ga.
              Oct. 5, '64
            
            
              Bolt, William J.
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Louisville, Ky.
              Jan. 27, '64
            
            
              Bowers, William
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              Nov. 6, '63
            
            
              Boyer, Charles F.
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 10, '63
            
            
              Bacon, Joel M.
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Nashville
              Dec. 29, '62
            
            
              Brammell, James W.
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Bowling Green
              Feb. 24, '63
            
            
              Barus, David R.
              Corporal
              H
              Disease
              At home
              May 1, '64
            
            
              Brafford, James M.
              Corporal
              I
              Disease
              
              Dec. 20, '62
            
            
              Clark, Henry
              Sergeant
              A
              Disease
              Bowling Green
              Dec. 6, '62
            
            
              Coombs, William
              Corporal
              A
              Disease
              Nashville
              Dec. 29, '62
            
            
              Campbell, Oliver N.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Bowling Green
              Jan. 3, '63
            
            
              Canbe, Joseph F.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Cleveland, O.
              Feb. 22, '63
            
            
              Creamer, Marion F.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Apr. 16, '63
            
            
              Casad, John A.
              Private
              B
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 21, '63
            
            
              Clark, Hiram
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Feb. 11, '63
            
            
              Crow, Thomas
              Private
              B
              Wounds
              Chattanooga
              Oct. 28, '63
            
            
              Crowell, Richard C.
              Private
              B
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Crowell, James M.
              Corporal
              B
              Disease
              Nashville
              Dec. 22, '62
            
            
              Cooper, Jacob
              Corporal
              C
              Wounds
              Mission Ridge
              
            
            
              Clawson, Garrett
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              May 5, '63
            
            
              Crane, Ira J.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 12, '63
            
            
              Coats, Archibald
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Silver Springs
              Nov. 18, '62
            
            
            
              Clinton, James H.
              Private
              E
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Crawford, William M.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Camp Denison
              Dec. 6, '62
            
            
              Crawford, John H.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Silver Springs
              Nov. 13, '62
            
            
              Cronkhite, Luke
              Private
              E
              Wounds
              Louisville, Ky.
              Aug. 9, '64
            
            
              Cronkhite, Henry
              Private
              E
              Killed
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 25, '63
            
            
              Crow, William H.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Louisville, Ky.
              Jun. 22, '63
            
            
              Cameron, David B.
              Sergeant
              F
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 21, '63
            
            
              Chenoweth, Joseph
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              May 18, '63
            
            
              Craner, Thomas J.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Bowling Green
              Dec. 2, '62
            
            
              Creamer, Robert H.
              Private
              F
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Cambridge, James
              Private
              G
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Cassman, Ethan A.
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Louisville, Ky.
              Dec. 8, '62
            
            
              Colson, William
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 16, '62
            
            
              Cartmill, Jacob
              Private
              I
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Mar. 10, '63
            
            
              Custer, Jeptha
              Private
              I
              Killed
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 25, '63
            
            
              Cartmill, William
              Wagoner
              I
              Disease
              
              Feb. 10, '63
            
            
              Duchemin, William O.
              Musician
              A
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 25, '63
            
            
              Dinsmore, James F.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              New Albany
              Feb. 15, '63
            
            
              Dinsmore, Oliver J.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Indianapolis
              Oct. 15, '64
            
            
              Davis, Albert
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Feb. 9, '63
            
            
              Dixon, George
              Private
              C
              Explosion
              Stmr. Sultana
              Apr. 27, '65
            
            
              Davis, Henry W.
              Private
              F
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Dennis, Andrew
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Camp Chase
              Mar. 4, '65
            
            
              Duchemin, Eli D.
              Private
              F
              Wounds
              Chattanooga
              Oct. 22, '64
            
            
              Davis, James H.
              Private
              I
              Disease
              
              Jan. 18, '63
            
            
              Deford, William
              Private
              I
              Disease
              
              Jan. 11, '63
            
            
              Edwards, John H.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Annapolis, Md.
              Feb. 11, '63
            
            
              Evans, Oliver M.
              Private
              E
              
              Nashville
              Jan. 20, '63
            
            
              Elliott, Jesse
              Corporal
              G
              Disease
              Louisville
              Nov. 25, '62
            
            
              Elliott, John C.
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Nashville
              Nov. 26, '62
            
            
              Feeley, John A.
              Private
              A
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 18,'63
            
            
              Freeman, Thomas J.
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Bowling Green
              Nov. 18, '62
            
            
              Fisher, Abram
              Sergeant
              E
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Fleming, William B.
              Private
              E
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Floyd, Jacob
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Indianapolis
              Dec. 17, '62
            
            
              Franklin, John L.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Jun. 8, '63
            
            
              Fisher, Josephus
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Feb. 19, '63
            
            
              German, John S.
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 15, '63
            
            
              German, Southy K.
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              Nov. 4, '63
            
            
              Gott, John W.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Barren co., Ky.
              Nov. 12, '62
            
            
              Gilger, Charles W. B.
              Sergeant
              D
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 14, '63
            
            
              Good, Samuel S.
              Corporal
              D
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 17, '63
            
            
              Gerard, Joshua
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 6, '63
            
            
              Guest, James
              Private
              D
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 26, '63
            
            
              Griner, Peter
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 1, '65
            
            
              Gallamore, Milton
              Private
              E
              Killed
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 25, '63
            
            
              Green, Robert W.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Feb. 22, '63
            
            
              Gum, Harrison N.
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 2, '64
            
            
              Grimes, Wesley
              Private
              I
              Disease
              Nashville
              Dec. 26, '64
            
            
              Galloway, George
              Private
              K
              Disease
              Indianapolis
              Sept. 5, '62
            
            
              Green, Bartholomew
              Private
              K
              Wounds
              Stone's River
              Jan. 9, '63
            
            
              Hardesty, Vinson H.
              Corporal
              A
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              April 2, '63
            
            
              Hester, Thomas
              Corporal
              A
              Wounds
              Murfreesboro
              Jan. 1, '63
            
            
              Hysong, Stephen C.
              Corporal
              A
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Mar. 12, '63
            
            
              Haller, Levi P.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Cave City, Ky.
              Dec. 1, '62
            
            
              Harding, Thomas J.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 12, '63
            
            
              Heintz, Lewis
              Sergeant
              B
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Haiffe, Joseph
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Feb. 9, '63
            
            
              Huntley, James H.
              Private
              B
              
              
              
            
            
              Heglin, James.
              Corporal
              C
              Explosion
              Stmr. Sultana
              Apr. 27, '65
            
            
              Harbert, John.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              May 30, '63
            
            
              Hawkins, VanBuren
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 28, '63
            
            
              Hoffman, John H.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Andersonville
              
            
            
              High, Anson
              Corporal
              D
              Disease
              Richmond, Va.
              Jan. 18, '63
            
            
              Hanks, Wallace B.
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 14, '63
            
            
              Hickman, Nathan
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 30, '63
            
            
              Henderson, Benj. H.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 11, '63
            
            
              Hunter, William C.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 4, '63
            
            
              Howard, James A.
              Sergeant
              F
              Killed
              Chickamauga
              Sep. 20, '63
            
            
              Hunt, James L.
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Louisville
              Dec. 22, '62
            
            
              Huffman, Absalom
              Corporal
              I
              Wounds
              Mission Ridge
              Dec. 16, '63
            
            
            
              Jester, Elcana
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Cincinnati, O.
              Jan. 5, '63
            
            
              Jacobs, Jackson
              Sergeant
              D
              Wounds
              Stone's River
              Jan. 1, '63
            
            
              Johnson, James D.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 14, '63
            
            
              Johnson, John A.
              Private
              E
              Wounds
              Stone's River
              Jan. 8, '63
            
            
              Jackson, Henry
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 8, '63
            
            
              Johnson, Clayborn
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              Mar. 31, '64
            
            
              Jester, Alexander
              Private
              K
              Disease
              Somerset, Ky.
              Oct. 28, '62
            
            
              Ketring, Abraham
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 18, '63
            
            
              Krise, John
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 22, '63
            
            
              Kelly, John S.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              April 1,'65
            
            
              Kirkpatrick, Andrew
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Mt. Vernon
              Nov. 2, '63
            
            
              King, John W.
              Private
              G
              
              
              
            
            
              Lunenburg, Freder'k
              Private
              B
              Wounds
              Chattanooga
              Nov. 26, '63
            
            
              Labaw, David L.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              April 4, '63
            
            
              Labaw, Derrick V.
              Private
              C
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Landon, Labon
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Fishing Creek
              Oct. 27, '62
            
            
              Landon, David
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Louisville
              Nov. 17, '62
            
            
              Landers, Nathaniel B.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 18, '63
            
            
              Lamb, William
              Private
              D
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Lighty, Solomon
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Knoxville
              Jan. 23, '64
            
            
              Lane, William H.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Huntsville
              Feb. 17, '65
            
            
              Leidy, Levi
              Private
              H
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 9, '63
            
            
              Lane, John
              Private
              I
              Disease
              Louisville
              Jan. 7, '63
            
            
              Myers, Robert W.
              Sergeant
              A
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Misner, Usual
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Louisville
              Dec. 29, '62
            
            
              Martin, William H. H.
              Private
              C
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              McLean, Henry H.
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Louisville
              Nov. 2, '62
            
            
              Morgan, Joseph
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 14, '63
            
            
              McWherter, Robert
              Private
              D
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 14, '63
            
            
              McCartney, Thomas J.
              Private
              D
              Killed
              Peach Tree Creek
              July 22, '64
            
            
              McCoy, Martin M.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Madison, Ind.
              Feb. 10, '65
            
            
              Miller, John
              Private
              F
              Disease
              
              Dec. 16, '62
            
            
              McClelland, Jeffers'n
              Private
              H
              Killed
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 25, '63
            
            
              Morrison, Hiram
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Gallatin
              Feb. 16, '63
            
            
              Morrison, James M.
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Knoxville
              Oct. 27, '64
            
            
              Nichols, Benjamin F.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 4, '63
            
            
              Nichols, Marshall F.
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Indianapolis
              Apr. 30, '64
            
            
              North, Zachariah
              Private
              I
              Disease
              Madison, Ind.
              June, '65
            
            
              Naylor, Charles
              Musician
              K
              Disease
              Bowling Green
              Nov. 1, '62
            
            
              Oliver, Lemuel W.
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Danville, Va.
              Dec. 6, '63
            
            
              Oglesby, William
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Mar. 22, '63
            
            
              Osborn, Warren
              Private
              K
              Disease
              Danville, Va.
              Dec. 25, '62
            
            
              Padgett, William
              Private
              A
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Sep. 25, '64
            
            
              Pugh, George
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Mar. 29, '63
            
            
              Pringle, Nathan C.
              Private
              D
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Pye, William
              Corporal
              D
              Disease
              Perryville
              Oct. 28, '62
            
            
              Paris, Thomas M.
              Sergeant
              H
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 1, '63
            
            
              Paxton, Benjamin W.
              Corporal
              H
              Disease
              Huntsville
              Jun. 31, '65
            
            
              Packer, Charles
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Bull's Gap
              Apr. 6, '63
            
            
              Peterson, Paris H.
              Private
              I
              Killed
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 25, '63
            
            
              Parker, John T.
              Private
              I
              Disease
              Louisville
              Dec. 11, '62
            
            
              Pattison, Joseph C.
              Private
              K
              Killed
              Brownsboro
              Jan. 23, '65
            
            
              Riechard, Franklin
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Nashville
              Feb. 4, '63
            
            
              Rose, William
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Silver Springs
              Nov. 11, '62
            
            
              Rose, Benjamin F.
              Private
              B
              Killed
              Kenesaw
              Jun. 28, '64
            
            
              Remster, Phineas A.
              Private
              C
              Killed
              Fountain co.
              Sep. 12, '62
            
            
              Reynolds, Marcellus
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Memphis
              Apr. 29, '63
            
            
              Rolly, John
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Memphis
              Apr. 25, '65
            
            
              Runkle, William
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Memphis
              Apr. 25, '65
            
            
              Ruloson, James A.
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 26, '63
            
            
              Richards, John
              Private
              D
              Wounds
              Andersonville
              Sep. 25, '64
            
            
              Rosebrough, Samuel
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Gallatin
              Jan. 15, '63
            
            
              Robinson, James F.
              Corporal
              F
              Wounds
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 27, '62
            
            
              Reed, William D.
              Corporal
              G
              Wounds
              Jeffersonville
              July 15, '64
            
            
              Roush, Timoth S.
              Sergeant
              H
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Rollins, Henry
              Private
              H
              Killed
              Nashville
              July 26, '63
            
            
              Ryan, James F.
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Louisville
              Apr. 14, '63
            
            
              Smith, Hiram
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Andersonville
              Mar. 17, '64
            
            
              Stoops, Benjamin F.
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              Nov. 20, '63
            
            
              Stowers, Richard A.
              Private
              A
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Saxon, Anthony M.
              Private
              B
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
            
              Saylor, Wilson
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Stone's River
              Nov. 20, '63
            
            
              Scott, Elias
              Private
              B
              Disease
              Bowling Green
              Nov. 15, '62
            
            
              Shields, William
              Private
              C
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 23, '63
            
            
              Simmerman, M. V.
              Private
              C
              Drowned
              Stmr. Sultana
              Apr. 27, '65
            
            
              Stultzel, Lewis
              Private
              D
              Disease
              New Albany
              Jan. 14, '63
            
            
              Sweeney, Lisander
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 6, '65
            
            
              Sheets, Frederick
              Private
              D
              Disease
              At home
              Nov. 8, '64
            
            
              Sellers, Isaac
              Private
              D
              Disease
              Williamsport
              Oct. 8, '64
            
            
              Shipps, John M.
              Corporal
              E
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Feb. 3, '63
            
            
              Swank, Watson C.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              
              Oct. 30, '62
            
            
              Stogdell, William C.
              Corporal
              F
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Smith, Andrew J.
              Private
              F
              
              
              
            
            
              Smith, John R.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jun. 8, '63
            
            
              Smith, Sidney M.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Nashville
              Dec. 10, '62
            
            
              Stephenson, Edwin P.
              Private
              F
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Shaw, Joseph H.
              Private
              H
              Wounds
              Kingston, Ga.
              Aug. 15, '64
            
            
              Stroup, Jeptha
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Louisville, Ky.
              Dec. 9, '62
            
            
              Stroup, William
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Mt. Vernon
              Nov. 1, '62
            
            
              Swisher, Manasseh
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Indianapolis
              Jun. 11, '64
            
            
              Stook, John H.
              Private
              I
              Wounds
              Stone's River
              Jan. 18, '63
            
            
              Sanders, Williams W.
              Private
              K
              Killed
              Nashville
              Dec. 15, '64
            
            
              Smith, Elisha
              Private
              K
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              Feb. 4, '65
            
            
              Trullinger, Benj.
              Private
              C
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Taylor, Sidney
              Private
              C
              
              
              
            
            
              Tipton, Eli A.
              Private
              F
              Wounds
              Mission Ridge
              Nov. 27, '63
            
            
              Tolen, James O.
              Private
              F
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Ticen, Moses B.
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 17, '63
            
            
              Townsend, Henry S. L.
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 24, '63
            
            
              Unger, Thomas
              Private
              H
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              Jan. 24, '64
            
            
              Urmston, Jonathan T.
              Private
              K
              Wounds
              Chattanooga
              Oct. 21, '63
            
            
              Vise, William I.
              Private
              I
              Disease
              Nashville
              Mar. 13, '63
            
            
              Worrell, Floyd N.
              Corporal
              A
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 12, '63
            
            
              Wells, William B.
              Private
              A
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 22, '63
            
            
              Wilharm, Augustus
              Private
              A
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              Apr. 14, '63
            
            
              Watters, Charles
              Corporal
              B
              Wounds
              Chattanooga
              Dec. 1, '63
            
            
              Wilson, John
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Louisville, Ky.
              Nov. 15, '62
            
            
              Woodard, Harrison H.
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Murfreesboro
              May 14, '63
            
            
              Wilson, John M.
              1st Sergeant
              F
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Warren, Marion M.
              Private
              F
              Disease
              Columbia
              Nov. 11, '64
            
            
              Wilkens, James M.
              Private
              F
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Wood, Oliver
              Private
              F
              Wounds
              Mission Ridge
              Dec. 26, '63
            
            
              Willis, Leander
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Louisville, Ky.
              Jun. 28, '63
            
            
              Whitesell, William T.
              Private
              G
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Wills, Israel
              Private
              G
              Disease
              Chattanooga
              Nov. 6, '63
            
            
              Wilson, Jethro
              Private
              H
              Wounds
              Nashville
              Jan. 9, '65
            
            
              Willey, Foster C.
              Private
              K
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 29, '63
            
            
              Williams, Martin L.
              Private
              K
              Killed
              Stone's River
              Dec. 31, '62
            
            
              Wisong, Martin M.
              Private
              K
              Disease
              Nashville
              Dec. 27, '62
            
            
              Anderson, William
              Private
              E
              Disease
              Nashville
              Jan. 15, '63
            
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
        APPENDIX.
        
          THE COLORS OF THE EIGHTY-SIXTH INDIANA.
          As a part of the equipments of the Eighty-sixth Indiana when it was mustered into the
            service of the United States it drew a stand of colors, issued by the Governor of the
            State. This stand of colors consisted of two silk flags. One was the regulation stars
            and stripes, and the other a plain blue, sometimes and usually called the banner. The
            color-bearers held the rank of Sergeant, and it was considered a position of high honor.
            A color-guard was detailed from each company who marched with the colors in the center
            of the regiment, whose duty it was to defend them in battle. When the regiment was
            thrown into the vortex at Stone's River in falling back its color-bearers were both shot
            down, and the colors left on the field. The regiment was then without colors of its
            own.
          On the 15th of June, 1863, while in camp at Murfreesboro the regiment was made the
            recipient of a beautiful silk banner, the donors being the patriotic citizens of Warren
            county, a county that had furnished two companies in the regimental organization. The
            banner was brought from Indiana by William Crow, of West Lebanon, and mainly through
            whom the money was obtained with which to make the purchase. Joseph Poole, of Attica,
            was present, and was selected by Mr. Crow to make the presentation speech. His speech
            was warm-hearted, loyal and full of patriotic sentiment, and sank deep into the heart of
            every member of the Eighty-sixth. Colonel Dick spoke in response and said: 
            "MY HONORED SIR:—In behalf of the Eighty-sixth Indiana Regiment I return my
                grateful acknowledgments to our kinds friends at home for this noble present. It is
                a beautiful present. In the name of the Eighty-sixth I accept this banner. Tell our
                friends when you return home the army is loyal. It is in the field for a high and
                noble purpose. The life blood of our nation hangs upon the virtue of the American
                people. Are the American people true to their destiny—equal to the issue? The
                country bequeathed to us by our forefathers is dearer to the Army of the Cumberland
                than all other earthly ties. Life is nothing, treasure is nothing, in the great
                struggle; what are all other considerations to a country saved? This war will end.
                An offended Deity will have emptied his vials of wrath upon this nation and be
                satisfied. Peace will come in the natural order of things. Hardships, troubles and
                trials, carnage and blood—all these lay in the path of the soldier, and over
                them he has to walk before peace comes. Peace will never come until conquered by the
                indomitable power of loyal arms. * * Until peace is made this noble banner shall
                float over the Eighty-sixth. Around it we will rally like the Spartan band of
                brothers. This day, here, we pledge our lives, our sacred honor for its protection.
                It will be returned to our friends at home, soiled, worn, torn, riddled and
                battle-slained, it may be, but this, in the name of the regiment, I promise: this
                beautiful banner shall never be dishonored. Again, in the name of the Eighty-sixth,
                I thank you for this kind present. We thank the generous donors for this noble gift,
                and thank you, sir, for the kind words you have been pleased to
            express."
          Turning to the color-guard Colonel Dick said: "This day I
                present to you this banner. It is a generous, noble gift from your friends at home.
                Will you honor that present? Will you, wherever you go, love and protect that
                banner? Will you uphold it during this righteous war? Knowing you so well I need not
                ask this of you. Come weal, come woe, come life, come death, be soldiers and men.
                Trust in God and a good cause. In carrying, keeping, protecting this beautiful
                banner a higher power will protect you.  Receive it,
                cling to it as the mariner clings to his compass, cling to it until the last earthly
                hope expires. Love it, and protect it, and as you do this you will be rewarded by
                men and angels."
          After the color-guards had again taken their places in line, the regiment gave three
            long, loud and hearty cheers in approval of all the Colonel had said, and an expression
            of thanks to the friends who made the offering.
          While the Eighty-sixth lay in camp at McMinnville, Tennessee, during the months of July
            and August, 1863, the ladies of Boone county procured and sent to Captain William S.
            Sims, and by him to be presented to the regiment, in their behalf, a beautiful silk
            American flag. On the 2d day of September, the eve of the departure of the regiment to
            engage in the Chickamauga campaign, this flag was formally presented by Captain Sims, as
            follows: SOLDIERS OF THE EIGHTY-SIXTH REGIMENT:—Having been called upon by
                the ladies and citizens of Boone county, to perform a duty of no ordinary magnitude,
                to that of presenting to you a flag, bearing upon its folds the stars and stripes,
                together with the inscription, "Presented to the 86th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers."
                Having learned that you were without a regimental flag, you having lost yours at
                Stone's River, where you won for yourselves imperishable honors in that dreadful
                struggle, they have sent you this flag. It will be chronicled in history for
                children unborn to read of your deeds of daring at Stone's River where you lost your
                colors. On behalf of the citizens of Boone county, and especially the ladies, I
                tender you this beautiful flag, the emblem of American Independence, the banner of
                Liberty, which our fathers first unfurled with full determination that it shall be
                respected abroad and revered at home. Take it and bear it on to victory. Let your
                watchword be, "Victory or we perish." When the din of battle shall surround you and
                the conflict grows hot, you need only give one glance at this flag, to know and
                remember that you have the prayers of all the good and loyal, who will continue to
                sing— 
                    "May the Star Spangled Banner continue to wave,
                    O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave."
                  
          
          Colonel George F. Dick received the flag and gracefully replied to the address of
            Captain Sims. In part he said: "HONORED SIR:—In accepting for the Eighty-sixth Regiment this beautiful
                emblem of our nationality I desire to return to the ladies and citizens of Boone
                county, who have thus kindly remembered them our most grateful acknowledgments for
                this appropriate and elegant present. During the twelve months that this regiment
                has been in the service of our common country, it has been constantly in the field
                and at the front. During the march, in the camp, and upon the hotly contested
                battle-field, all the powers of endurance and all the manly courage of the officers
                and men of the Eighty-sixth have been severely tested. That such has been their
                deportment under all the trying circumstances in which they have been placed, as to
                command the admiration of their friends at home, and to elicit from them such
                beautiful testimonials as that with which they are this day honored, is to them the
                proudest solace of their hearts. The heart of every member of this command swells
                with gratitude to the donors of these beautiful colors, for the unmistakable
                testimony of their appreciation of their services in behalf of the noblest
                government God ever gave man."
          Turning to the color-bearers Colonel Dick said: "COLOR-BEARERS:—This beautiful flag has been
                presented to our regiment by the ladies and citizens of Boone county, in
                consideration of the services rendered by us in aid to crush the rebellion, and more
                particularly, for your conduct during the hard fought battle of Stone's River. To
                you we entrust it. In honoring, protecting, carrying and maintaining this flag, you
                guard and sustain the reputation, the fame, the glory of our regiment. Take, then,
                this flag, the emblem of our glorious nationality. Carry it amid the noise and din
                of the bloody strife. Welcome death beneath its glorious folds. Sink to your last
                happy rest with its folds for a winding sheet; but let not the touch of the traitor
                mar its beauty or its glory. Fair ladies will then welcome you with smiles, aged
                patriots will greet you with their  blessings, and
                generations yet unborn will teach their children to lisp your praise."
          And the banner presented by the patriotic citizens of Warren county, and the flag given
            by the ladies and citizens of Boone county were the colors that waved over the
            Eighty-sixth on Chickamauga's crimsoned field and around which its heroic men rallied
            and brought them off unstained and unsullied. It was this banner and this flag that led
            the way to the embattled heights of Missionary Ridge and which the Eighty-sixth followed
            to the crest, the first upon the Ridge. It was this banner and this flag that won for
            the heroic men of the Eighty-sixth imperishable renown and added new luster to the
            American arms. It was this flag, "the fairest blossom in all the flowery kingdom," that
            received through its folds on that glorious day eighty-eight musket shots and two
            through its staff. Let the regiment and its colors go to glory together.
          On the 30th of April, 1864, the regimental stand of colors which had been carried up
            Missionary Ridge and literally shot to pieces in the hands of the color-bearers were
            sent to Governor Oliver P. Morton to be placed in the State Library for
            preservation.
          These colors being now unserviceable the Eighty-sixth was kindly and patriotically
            remembered by its friends in Clinton county, that county being represented by two full
            companies and a part of a third company. These liberty-loving people through Sergeant
            John M. Cast, of Company H, sent to their boys, both a banner and a national flag, the
            material of which was of beautiful silk. The banner bore the inscription, "Eighty-sixth
            Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. Presented by Clinton County." The flag was the regulation
            stars and stripes. No data can be found to show that these colors were ever presented to
            the regiment in a formal manner, but that they were accepted is attested by the fact
            that they were carried through all the battles and skirmishes of the Atlanta campaign,
            through the campaigns of Franklin and Nashville, and were the colors which waved over
            the Eighty-sixth when it closed its glorious career. Faded and  worn, and with not a star dimmed nor a stripe sullied they were placed in
            the hands of Governor Morton on the 10th day of June, 1865, by him to be deposited in
            the State Capitol for permanent safe keeping where they now rest secure, among the other
            flags and banners of Indiana's gallant regiments.
          Of the colors of the Eighty-sixth regiment deposited in the State Library, Adjutant
            General Terrell, in his Reports, says: "National Flag; silk;
                badly worn and stained; inscribed 'Presented to the Eighty-sixth Regiment, Indiana
                Volunteers, by the citizens Boone County;' staff broken lower half gone."
              "National Flag; silk; faded, worn and torn; no inscription; staff good."
              "Regimental Flag; blue silk; worn torn and faded; inscribed '86th Regiment Indiana
                Volunteers.,' 'Presented by Clinton County;' coat-of-arms all gone but head of
                eagle; staff good."
          On the Fourth of July, 1866, the scarred battle-flags borne by the Indiana regiments
            and batteries during the war were formally presented to Governor Morton for permanent
            preservation in the State capitol. The presentation address was delivered by Major
            General Lew Wallace, in the course of which, in speaking of the honorable name that
            Indiana had acquired and the many different engagements in which Indiana regiments were
            "first" said: The first to show their stars from the embattled crest
            of Missionary Ridge, were those of the Seventy-ninth and Eighty-sixth Indiana."
          The members of the Eighty-sixth therefore feel a pardonable pride in the history of
            their colors. Is it to be wondered that they love and prize the flag? They feel, having
            offered their lives in its defense, that it is the symbol of progress, of political and
            religious freedom. As their fathers left it as a precious legacy to them, so they feel
            that they have left one of no less value to their children.
        
        
        
          THE FOURTH CORPS—A LETTER FROM GENERAL O. O. HOWARD.
          The original Fourth army corps was organized March 13, 1862, with General E. D. Keyes
            in command, and was a part of the Army of the Potomac. Its divisions became divided, and
            the corps was officially discontinued in August, 1862. On October 9, 1863, the new
            Fourth corps was organized by the consolidation of the Twentieth and Twenty-first. This
            corps was composed of fighting regiments. Of the regiments in the Western armies, take
            the ones that sustained the greatest losses in battle, and it will be found that more of
            them were in the Fourth corps than in any other. This statement is made upon the
            authority of William F. Fox, in his "Regimental Losses in the American Civil War." The
            command was first given to General Gordon Granger, the man who marched his division to
            Chickamauga with no other orders or direction than "the sound of the enemy's cannon."
            The three divisions of this new corps were placed under the commands of Generals Palmer,
            Sheridan and Wood. Soon after its organization the corps went into the action of
            Missionary Ridge,where it distinguished itself by its brilliant and successful charge up
            the heights. During the following winter the corps marched to the relief of Knoxville, a
            campaign memorable for the suffering, hunger and hardships endured by the men. In April,
            1864, General O. O. Howard was placed in command of the corps, and in May moved on the
            Atlanta campaign, with Generals Stanley, Newton and Wood in command of the divisions.
            Before the close of the campaign General Howard was assigned to the command of the Army
            of the Mississippi, and General Stanley placed in command of the corps, with Generals
            Kimball, Wagner and  Wood in command of the divisions.
            After the evacuation of Atlanta the corps marched northward in pursuit of Hood. At the
            battle of Franklin General Stanley was severely wounded, and General Thomas J. Wood
            succeeded to his place. General Wood had served with honor in the armies of the Ohio and
            the Cumberland from the commencement of the war. He commanded the Fourth corps in its
            last battle—its last victory, at Nashville. His division generals in that
            engagement were Kimball, Elliott and Beatty.
          The distinguishing badge of the Fourth corps was an equilateral triangle. The colors,
            red, white and blue, indicated the divisions—first, second and third
            respectively—as, a red triangle, First division; a white triangle, Second
            division; a blue triangle, the Third division. The badges were worn by every soldier and
            marked the tents and wagons of the corps.
          The Eighty-sixth ever had a warm admiration for General O. O. Howard. This prompted one
            of the members of the committee on Regimental History to write that distinguished
            officer. In reply General Howard sent the following letter:
          
              
                
                  HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMET OF THE EAST,GOVERNOR'S ISLAND,
                      NEW YORK.J. A. Barnes,
                      Late Private Company H, Eighty-sixth Indiana Volunteer Infantry, Perrysville,
                      Indiana.
                    MY DEAR SIR:—
                  I have had such extracts as we can find concerning your regiment, the
                    Eighty-sixth Indiana, made as a slight record of service. The Fourth corps, of
                    which this regiment forms a part, always dwells in my recollection as a grand
                    whole. Its three divisions, Stanley's, Newton's, and Thomas John Wood's were
                    finely organized and as well cared for as any divisions in the army. Certainly
                    without the least exaggeration the Fourth corps bore the noblest part in all the
                    campaign. Its duty was a bloody one, most arduous, always destined to hammer
                    away at the center of opposition, with very little opportunity for brilliant
                    fighting, and almost none for independent action, till Franklin. Cheerful,
                    hearty, brave, strong, self-confident, it gave to its officers a most loyal and
                    effective service.
                  Hoping that the extracts may suit you and that the Eighty-sixth Indiana may be
                    appreciated by our children and children's children for  the part it bore in saving our common country from division and
                    utter ruin.
                  I remain Your Veteran Comrade,
                    O. O. HOWARD,  Major General U. S.
                      Army.
                
              
            
          The extracts referred to by General Howard are taken from the reports of General Beatty
            and Colonel George F. Dick of the assault upon Missionary Ridge and will explain
            themselves. They will be found on pages 269 and 270 of this volume.
        
        
          THE STORMING OF MISSIONARY RIDGE.
          An animated discussion has been going on for years among soldiers of all grades,
            especially among those of the Fourth and Fourteenth army corps, as to which regiment or
            regiments first reached the summit of Missionary Ridge on that memorable 25th of
            November, 1863. The authors of this volume have set forth the claim, which at first no
            person disputed, that the two regiments which first gained the crest of the Ridge were
            the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana. The claim has been fully substantiated by
            conclusive corroborative evidence, not only by officers and soldiers on both sides, but
            by disinterested eye-witnesses of the battle. On page 265 reference is given to the
            reports of Generals Bate and Bragg, and quotations made therefrom, to show where their
            lines were first broken. General Bate says it was in the line of General Patton
            Anderson's division where a section of Dent's battery was located. This is corroborated
            by General Bragg. Since those pages were printed the authors have been able to secure a
            statement from Captain Dent, the officer in command of the battery whose guns were
            captured by these two regiments. Captain Dent was present at the dedication of
            Chickamauga Park, and visited Missionary Ridge, the scene of the assault. On the ground
            where his battery was captured he made the  statement
            which follows to W. H. Montgomery, the Guardian Tennessee Division Chickamauga and
            Chattanooga National Military Park. Mr. Montgomery has kindly forwarded the Captain's
            statement which is here given: "He had two guns on top of the
                hill south of what is called Shallow Ford Road, and four guns north of the road. The
                four guns north of the road enfiladed the lines of Wood's division (left) at the
                assault of Missionary Ridge near the top of ridge. The two guns south of road could
                not be used in front of the left of Wood's division after the lines got under cover
                of ridge. They were used to rake the front of the four guns north when the lines of
                Wood were near the top or in exposed places. He did great execution with the four
                guns. One instance near the top. He struck a tree and knocked it down and as it
                rolled down the hill it caught a man and turned him up in the air. When he saw this
                and it did not create a panic he knew nothing would prevent the lines from going to
                the top. When his two guns were captured he turned on them but could not keep them
                from coming down on his four guns. His only way to escape was down the road and he
                was cut off this way. So he abandoned all but the gun on the north (or farthest
                away). He tried to run this gun straight down the hill, but ran on a stump and while
                the men were trying to lift the gun over his horses were shot and he lost this gun
                also. This battery was on the left of Wood's division."
          Mr. Montgomery accompanied the statement with a rough sketch or drawing showing the
            exact positions of the guns of this battery which it is to be regretted cannot be used.
            The ground referred to, is that which is accepted by the Commission as the point where
            Wood's left—the Eighty-sixth and Seventy-ninth Indiana—went up the Ridge.
            Dent's statement, with Bate's, Bragg's and others, and the location by the Commission,
            fixes the seal upon these two regiments as the first to mount the crest of the Ridge on
            that Volcanic Day, November 25, 1863.
          
          The following extracts from General Boynton's book,  "The
            Chickamauga National Military Park," will be of interest to every member of the
            Eighty-sixth regiment, and for that reason they are here inserted: "The declaration was current at the time of the battle, and has been
                persistently maintained in various histories since, that the successful storming of
                Missionary Ridge by General Thomas' corps was made possible because General
                Sherman's attack at the north end of the Ridge had drawn large forces from Thomas'
                front, and so enabled him to break through. As a matter of fact, not a
                  soldier or a gun left the Confederate center to go to their right after Sherman's
                  assault began. The movements on the Ridge which led to this belief were those
                of the troops which had abandoned Lookout and were on their way to the Confederate
                right. Most of these reached their destination by 9 a. m. The exact
                  opposite is true, that soon after Gen. Thomas moved against the Confederate
                center, that is, about an hour before sunset, Brown's, Cumming's, and Maney's
                brigades were dispatched by General Cleburne from Tunnel Hill to the assistance of
                the forces opposing Thomas, Cleburne himself accompanying them. Brown's brigade
                reached Cheatham's line before the close of the action, and, supported by Cumming's,
                participated in the effort to check Baird's northward advance along the crest of the
                Ridge." Page 294.
              
              "The advance on Orchard Knob, the attack on Lookout Mountain, and Hooker's movement
                on Rossville Gap, were not contemplated in General Grant's orders for battle. The
                key movement of that plan was the occupation of the north end of Missionary Ridge to
                the Tunnel by General Sherman before the enemy could concentrate there. At 3 o'clock
                the attack at that point had failed, and General Grant, then on Orchard Knob, his
                headquarters during the day, ordered a demonstration at the center against the
                enemy's works at the foot of the Ridge, to relieve the pressure upon General
                Sherman. General Thomas, commanding the Army of the Cumberland, and General Gordon
                Granger, commanding the Fourth corps, also had their headquarters on Orchard Knob.
                   * * * Baird, who had been ordered to Sherman and
                had joined him at the Tunnel, was just returning to the center when the order for
                the demonstration against the Ridge was given, and quickly formed as the left of the
                advance." Page 132.
              
              "The first troops on the crest appear to have been those in Thomas J. Wood's
                division." Page 134.
              "Contrary to prevailing impressions, no Confederate troops left the front of the
                Army of the Cumberland to oppose General Sherman, after the battle of Tunnel Hill
                opened. It is true, instead, that troops left Sherman's front soon after the
                movement of General Thomas' line began." Page 216 and 218.
              
              "Wood's right crowned the Ridge about the crossing of the Bird's Mill
                  Road."—Boynton. Wood's left mounted the Ridge on the
                knoll—and on its northern slope—just south of the Shallow Ford Road
                where a section of Dent's battery was located, as he himself states. The
                Commissioners of the Park have properly located both Wood's left and Dent's battery.
                This point was known in Beatty's brigade as Signal Hill.
              
              
                  
                    
                      HEADQUARTERS THIRD DIVISION, FOURTH ARMY CORPS,
              CHATTANOOGA, TENN.,
                          NOV. 27th, 1863.
                        OFFICERS AND SOLDIERS OF THE
                            THIRD DIVISION, FOURTH ARMY CORPS—ARMY OF THE CUMBERLAND:—
                      A Glorious Victory, under the providence of God, has crowned our arms. In
                        producing this great result, your valor has been most signally
                        displayed.
                      Ordered on Monday afternoon to make a reconnoissance of the enemy's
                        position, you converted a reconnoissance into a substantial attack, most
                        gallantly carrying a position strong by nature and intrenched. But your
                        crowning glory was achieved on Wednesday afternoon. You were ordered to
                        carry the line of intrenchments at the foot of Missionary Ridge, for the
                        purpose of making a diversion in favor of our troops engaged on the left.
                        This you did, but you were not content to stop at the base of the Ridge.
                        Your enthusiasm bore you on in splendid style, carrying the rifle pits which
                        crowned the summit—capturing many pieces of artillery, small arms and
                        prisoners. The enemy began to retire in disorder.
                      
                      Your achievement in carrying the rugged, fortified heights of Missionary
                        Ridge, displayed a gallantry and steadiness under fire, and produced results
                        unparalelled in the annals of warfare.
                      Your conduct was witnessed by many officers distinguished on other
                        battle-fields. Their admiration and appreciation of your services are
                        unbounded.
                      I return you my most heartfelt thanks.
                        THOMAS J. WOOD,
                           Brigadier General Volunteers Commanding.
                    
                  
                
        
        
          GENERAL T. J. WOOD TO GOVERNOR MORTON.
          
              
                
                  HEADQUARTERS THIRD DIVISION FOURTH ARMY CORPS,
        CAMP NEAR NASHVILLE,
                      JUNE 9, 1865.
                    To His Excellency Governor O. P. Morton: SIR:—
                  Yesterday two noble and gallant regiments, tried defenders and victors of the
                    Union, the Seventy-ninth Indiana, Brevet Brigadier General Fred Knefler,
                    commanding, and the Eighty-sixth Indiana, Brevet Brigadier General George F.
                    Dick, commanding, and late of my division, started to their homes in Indiana.
                    The noble, generous, thorough, self-sacrificing patriotism evinced by the
                    gallant people of Indiana throughout the whole of this war, is her earnest of
                    the reception that awaits these war-worn defenders of the Union, on their
                    arrival in their beloved State. I know I need not ask anything on this score,
                    but I feel it to be my duty, as it certainly is my pleasure, to inform you, as
                    the representative head of the State, how well these regiments have performed
                    their duty, and how worthy they are of the admiration and gratitude of their
                    fellow-citizens of Indiana.
                  On every battle-field these noble regiments have been in the front of the
                    conflict, where death and danger were thickest. On the march and in camp they
                    have been faithful, intelligent, obedient soldiers. Their conduct in all
                    situations has shed luster on themselves, their State and their country. Ever
                    faithful, their services have been productive of the greatest good to our
                    beloved government and country. "Dead on the field of honor," their gallant
                    soldiers have been offered as a tribute to the cause of free government and the
                    perpetuity of the Union, on every battle-field on which the old Army of the Ohio
                    and the Army of the Cumberland have adorned the history of the country with
                    noble deeds. Such noble and valuable services entitle the Seventy-ninth and
                    Eighty-sixth Indiana to be greeted by the admiring and grateful fellow-citizens
                    with the swelling notes of "See, the conquering heroes come."
                  
                  With the kindest regards to you, personally, and with the warmest
                      wishes for the prosperity of the people of the noble State over which you have
                      the honor to preside, I am, my dear Governor, Your friend and obedient
                      servant,
                    THOMAS J. WOOD, Major General
                      of Volunteers.
                
              
            
        
        
          AN ENGLISHMAN'S IDEA. [From the Chattanooga Times.]
          General Fullerton, who was General Gordon Granger's chief of staff in the battle, was
            talking to an English general in England just after the war, and finding that the
            Englishman knew very little about most of our battles, spoke to him of Chickamauga as
            the longest battle of modern history, twenty hours long, as compared with the eight
            hours of Waterloo, and even the eight hours of Gettysburg; gave him the unprecedented
            percentage of casualties, and wound up by telling him that 30,000 men had been killed
            and wounded in the battle, which, he said, was more than had been killed and wounded in
            the British army in a century, Waterloo and the Crimea included. This made the English
            general gasp out the only explanation that occurred to him in the form of the question,
            "Did you kill the prisoners?"
        
        
          ARMY RATIONS FOR ONE HUNDRED MEN.
          The army rations for one hundred men consists of the following: Pork, 75 pounds, or
            bacon 75 pounds; flour, 112½ pounds, or 75 pounds pilot bread and 100 pounds in the
            field; beans, 8 quarts; rice, 10 pounds; coffee, 6 pounds; sugar, 12 pounds; vinegar, 4
            quarts; candles, 1½ pounds; soap, 4 pounds; salt, 2 quarts.
        
        
        
          ERRATA.
          
            Page 45, line 1, "27th" should read 21st.
            Page 101, line 3, "left" should read right.
            Page 120, lines 11 and 16, "Holstein" should read Holston.
            Page 132, line 10, "William J. Ness" should read William J. Nees.
            Page 155, line 3, "Sand mountain" should read Raccoon mountain.
            Page 155, line 18, "Chattanooga creek" should read Chickamauga creek.
            Page 160, line 21, "Lookout valley" should read Chattanooga valley.
            Page 174, line 21, "Granger" should read McCook.
            Page 207, line 21, "20th" should read 21st.
            Page 225, line 7, "5th" should read 1st.
            Page 225, line 14, "3d" should read 2d.
            Page 267, lines 1 and 2, "Fifty-ninth Ohio" should read Eighty-ninth Ohio.
            Page 293, line 32, "6th of December" should read 7th of December.
            Page 342, line 8, "Fourth" should read Fourteenth.
            Page 378, line 15, "passed" should read pressed.
            Page 431, line 17, "Seventh Kentucky" should read Seventeenth Kentucky.
            Page 446, line 38, "Shay" should read Elder.
            Page 456, line 13, "southeasterly" should read northeasterly.
          
        
      
    
  
