
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Beard, Charles Austin, 1874-1948.. European sobriety in the presence of the Balkan crisis. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8219
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				
					EUROPEAN SOBRIETY IN THE PRESENCE OF THE BALKAN
						CRISIS
				
			
		
		
			
				EUROPEAN SOBRIETY IN THE PRESENCE OF THE BALKAN CRISIS
				From that fateful September of 1683 when Sobieski beat the Turks back from the walls
					of Vienna and exultantly announced that the approaches to the town, the camp, and the
					open fields were covered with the corpses of the enemy, down to the bloody days of
					Sebastopol and Plevna, the Sultan's territorial interests west of the Bosphorus have
					been a standing menace to the peace of Europe. Again and again in the eighteenth
					century, the Eastern powers were engaged in desperate conflicts to wrest ever larger
					areas from the grip of the Turk, and before the century had closed the Western powers
					as well were drawn into the contest. They assisted at the formation of the
					independent kingdom of Greece and narrowly escaped a serious clash when the Sultan
					defied them. In 1854, on a pretext that seems criminally trivial (whatever may have
					been the real motives) England, France, Turkey, Sardinia, and Russia plunged into the
					terrible Crimean War whose horrors at Malakoff and the Redan, gave a dash of
					bitterness to "the brazen glories" of Inkermann and the Light Brigade. In
					1877, Alexander II, using the call of Bulgaria as a pretext, threw his troops across
					the border and they were cutting their way through to the Sultan's capital when they
					were checked by a solemn warning from England that the settlement of the Turk's
					estate down to the minutest detail was a matter of European interest. Recalling,
					perhaps, the disasters of the Crimea, the victorious Tsar yielded as gracefully as possible, and at the memorable Berlin
					Conference of 1878, the representatives of Great Britain, Russia, Germany, France,
					Austria, Italy, and Turkey drafted what has been called "the fundamental law of
					Southeastern Europe," establishing the status of Bulgaria, Eastern Roumelia,
					Crete, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Servia, Roumania, and Macedonia. With the
					exception of the union of Bulgaria and Eastern Roumelia in 1885 the grand settlement
					reached at Berlin has remained substantially undisturbed, each nation fearing that
					the slightest jar might easily bring down the whole structure so painfully erected,
					and precipitate a disastrous conflict among the powers interested. Even the
					apparently harmless attempts of the Cretans to unite with Greece were several times
					repressed by military demonstrations on the part of the powers entrusted with the
					task of guarding the peace of the Southeast.
				Suddenly in the summer and autumn of this year (1908) there occurred a series of
					startling events which, in the days of Napoleon III and Disraeli, would certainly
					have afforded acceptable pretexts for a general armed conflict. In July, the Young
					Turk party in Constantinople was able to force the Sultan to approve the restoration
					of the suspended constitution of 1876 and thus reconstruct the government of Turkey.
					On October 5, Prince Ferdinand declared at Tirnovo, amid great rejoicing, the freedom
					and independence of Bulgaria from Turkish suzerainty. Two days later came the
					official proclamation of Austria-Hungary annexing the
					provinces of Bosnia and Herzegovina which the treaty of Berlin had placed under the
					administration of the dual monarchy. Before the diplomats of Europe cculd catch their
					breath, the Cretans announced their emancipation from Constantinople and their final
					union with Greece. It seemed that Turkey had committed political suicide, that
					respect for law and order was being cast to the winds, and that the hour had come for
					a general scramble in which the strongest might hope for a lion's share.
				The war spirit at once flamed up in Europe and for a time it looked as if hasty
					action on the part of some minor power in the Southeast might bring on a local
					conflict whose larger implications could scarcely be apprehended. The king of Servia
					at once signed a decree ordering the mobilization of the first reserves of the army
					numbering about 35,000 and his call to arms was greeted with great enthusiasm. Crowds
					in Belgrade, shouting "Long live our Bosnia! Down with Austria!" attacked
					the Austrian legation. The mayor of Belgrade presided over a meeting of 25,000
					persons at which members of parliament indulged in the most violent war talk and were
					greeted with shouts of "On to the Drina to save our brothers! To arms! To
					arms!" The Servian Crown Prince addressing the soldiers clamoring for war
					declared, "For him who would die, I wish life; for him who would live, I wish
					death." The Servian newspapers published inflammatory articles urging the
					government not to yield, and the Servian parliament on Monday, October 12, voted an
					extraordinary credit to the minister of war and passed a
					resolution that it was willing to support the ministry to the fullest extent in the
					defense of Servian interests. The Charge d'Affaires representing
					Servia at London gave out the following statement: "Austria has cynically thrown
					a bomb into the powder magazine of Europe and it is impossible to foretell to what
					the indignation of the Servians may lead them. In Servia the matter is one of life or
					death. To explain the indignation in my country it is necessary to point out that the
					majority of the population which will now pass under Austrian rule is Servian. .....
					Twice Servia has gone to war over the question of Bosnia."
				While the excitement in Servia seemed swiftly bearing the population toward war, the
					Montenegrins joined in the clamor for armed resistance to Austrian aggression. In
					opening the parliament on Monday, October 12, the Prince declared that his people had
					suffered a great wrong at the hands of Austria, and were ready to sacrifice their
					last drop of blood to set matters right if necessary. Parliament promptly passed a
					vote of confidence in the government and unanimously sanctioned the demand for
					military supplies.
				The European press treated the violation of the Berlin Treaty as a serious event, and
					some of the more belligerent papers, confidently anticipating war, announced the
					actual commencement of hostilities between Austria and Servia The Paris Journal declared that the Balkan States "are on the brink of a
					precipice and the European powers are about to give free rein to their appetite for
					dominion." The Petit Parisien urged, "the chances of war
					are manifold unless Europe is sensible enough solemnly to
					declare that no blood shall be shed." The London Times
					deplored the injury which the action of Austria and Bulgaria had done to the prestige
					of the new regime in Turkey, and added: "Were that prestige destroyed, the steps
					taken by these two Christian lands would probably result in plunging Macedonia and
					other wide regions of Turkey into a welter of blood and rapine more horrible than
					that from which they have been rescued by the revolution. ..... They must bear the
					consequences of their acts."
				While the papers in Western Europe realized the gravity of the situation, not a
					single one of weight took advantage of the opportunity for "good
					journalism" to urge any hasty action inviting even the risk of war. And the
					governments of all the great nations took a judicial attitude, which conclusively
					demonstrated their realization of the responsibilities resting upon the power making
					the first belligerent move. Even the government of Turkey, whose prestige and
					interests were most seriously affected by the crisis, speedily announced a pacific
					policy, while making it clear that the offenses committed by Bulgaria and Austria
					against legitimate rights warranted the use of force. Instead of rushing to arms and
					calling on the Powers that had signed the Treaty of Berlin to maintain their own
					public agreements, Turkey appealed to the decision of the contracting parties, and
					stated that she would "await their decision with calm."
				Russia responded to the appeal from Constantinople with a proposition that a
					conference of the powers signatory to the Treaty of
					Berlin should be held, and the contested issues peacefully adjusted by the parties
					interested. This view of the impasse was taken also by Great Britain, France, Italy,
					and, conditionally, by Germany. Although it is by no means decided that the vexed
					questions are to be settled by a great conference of the powers, it seems certain
					that no country is willing to take the huge risk of plunging Europe into war. While
					the expected conference is being indefinitely delayed, negotiations are proceeding
					between Turkey and Bulgaria and Austria; the representatives of all countries show an
					anxiety to reach a peaceful settlement; and a pacific note runs through the
					propositions and counter-propositions which have thus far found their way to the
					public. It is hazardous, of course, to prophesy, but if the tone of the European
					press, the rates of war insurance, and the avowed policy of the most militant of the
					Powers involved are to be accepted as indications, Europe will escape the threatened
					war.
				It would be unwarranted, however, to conclude that such a happy result has been
					achieved through the influence of abstract notions of justice and righteousness
					alone. It would be unwarranted also to assume that material interests alone have been
					responsible for the cautious reserve which now characterizes the policy of all the
					powers concerned. In fact, from the standpoint of the advocate of peace, it matters
					little whether war has been so far prevented by a complex of economic interests, the
						fear of war in itself, the unwillingness of statesmen
					to assume the terrible responsibility for a general conflict, or by a belief in the
					folly and futility of war. Indeed, no single factor has been responsible for the
					outcome. If one examines the comments of the European papers on the crisis, the
					semi-official statements from the respective governments, and the general
					distribution of interests in Southeastern Europe, he will discover that many elements
					have entered into the maintenance of peace.
				First among the pacific influences must be placed the calm and reasonable attitude of
					the Constitutional Liberals in Turkey. Instead of attempting to stir the mob spirit
					by mad appeals for "a holy war on the infidels," in accordance with the
					vogue once famous in Constantinople, they sought to quiet the unrest of the militant
					elements among the population. In its note to the powers, the Turkish government
					stated that it "could resort to force to ensure the protection of its rights,
					but being above all respectful to treaties and anxious for the common interests
					involved in the need for peace, it desires to avoid such an extremity." It is
					well known that members of the Young Turk party have been long in Western capitals
					studying modern political methods, and also that they have manifested an intense
					interest in the conferences at the Hague and in the proposed programs for the
					peaceful adjustment of international disputes. The Constantinople correspondent of
					the London Times telegraphed his paper, when the news of the action of Bulgaria and
					Austria-Hungary was made known, as follows: "All
					Turkish journals publish long leading articles dealing with the situation. Their tone
					is almost without exception the reverse of Chauvinistic, and an appeal to arms is
					generally deprecated .... It is pointed out that in spite of the cruel blows dealt to
					national prestige, the interests of the empire demand a calm and pacific attitude on
					the part of every section of the population."
				A second factor in the maintenance of peace was the clear, firm, and moderate
					attitude taken by the Liberal government in England. Sir Edward Grey, in a public
					address delivered soon after the declaration of Bulgarian independence, stated that
					the Government could not agree to the violation of the treaty until the other powers
					were consulted, that every effort should be made to prevent the startling events from
					militating against the reform movement in Turkey, and that the practical and material
					changes had not been so great as alarmists had contended. The Prime Minister, Mr.
					Asquith, at the opening of Parliament a few days later, expressed the hope that those
					interested in reaching an agreement would not precipitate a crisis by hasty action
					but would continue to show moderation and restraint. The leader of the opposition in
					the House of Lords stated, "that their one desire was to strengthen the hands of
					the government in the task of maintaining the public law of Europe and preserving the
					peace of the world."
				In France the press in some quarters declared that only a congress could avert war,
					but the government showed no anxiety to make capital by assuming a belligerent attitude. There was no Napoleon III to appeal to the
					glories of Austerlitz and Wagram, and the ministry, seriously occupied with pressing
					questions of domestic reform and expedients for meeting already overtopping military
					expenditures, did not betray the slightest interest in the possibilities of winning
					fame again at Sebastopol. Things have changed in France since 1854. Doubtless the
					Journal des Debats voiced the sentiments of all sober Frenchmen in the following
					declaration: "Without neglecting our interests, we should join with our allies
					and friends in preventing the destruction of the European equilibrium. We ought to
					see to it that Turkey receives the satisfaction due her, and if war does arise compel
					a limitation of the conflict and prevent the conflagration from becoming general. Our
					r61le is that of a peace-maker. Our government should speak firmly; it has all France
					behind it."
				There is no doubt also that the minor powers of Southeastern Europe have learned some
					lessons during the last twenty-five years. They have taken part in the Hague
					conferences and are parties to the Hague conventions. They have been devoting their
					attention with more or less success to the advancement of the arts of peace and
					industry. They are developing financial and commercial interests which give them
					pause in the face of the derangement of business that war inevitably engenders.
					Despite some bluster and unquestionable pressure from the excitable elements of the
					population, the governments most deeply involved took a studiously pacific attitude
					after the first impulses were inhibited.
				
				Credit must be given likewise to the ententes now existing between England, France,
					and Russia. During the period when the crisis was at its height, the negotiations
					among these powers were conducted with a frankness and cordiality which were
					undoubtedly facilitated by the previous good understanding. Certainly this may be
					regarded as an illustration of how friendly relations cultivated assiduously in time
					of peace may be conductive to judicial calm in critical situations.
				Thus a great political revolution has taken place; a general European settlement has
					been violently overturned; Austria has been guilty of aggression akin to that of
					Russia in times past; every pretext has been afforded for some militant power to
					precipitate a conflict; and yet pacific councils have prevailed. High talk about
					"the glory of France" so characteristic of the Second Empire has been
					conspicuously absent from the French press. England has found no responsible
					political leader to emulate the example of the flamboyant Beaconsfield and call for
					the war dogs to avenge the attack upon "the integrity of Turkey."
					Everywhere in the voluminous discussions of the upheaval, there is a note of
					moderation and good sense. Instead of the reckless abandon of old fashioned
					militarism, there is a sane conservatism born of the clear recognition of the
					responsibilities assumed by the Power that dares cast the first fire-brand. Surely
					without undue optimism, this happy escape from the crisis may be deemed a triumph for
					the cause of peace.
				CHARLES A. BEARD.
			
		
		
	
