
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Beard, Charles Austin, 1874-1948.. Contemporary American history, 1877-1913. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8215
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		


			
			
				CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN HISTORY 1877-1913
			


			
			Imprint
				THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
					NEW YORK * BOSTON * CHICAGO * DALLAS ATLANTA * SAN FRANCISCO
					MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED LONDON * BOMBAY * CALCUTTA
						MELBOURNE THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD.
					TORONTO
			

			
			
				
					CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN HISTORY
					
					1877-1913
				
				
				BY CHARLES A. BEARD ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF
					POLITICS IN COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

				New York
					THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
					1914 All rights reserved
			


			
			Verso
				COPYRIGHT, 1914, By THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

				
				Set up and electrotyped. Published February, 1914.
				Norwood Press J. S. Cushing Co.-- Berwick & Smith Co. Norwood, Mass.,
					U.S.A.
			


			
			
				PREFACE

				IN teaching American government and politics, I constantly meet large
					numbers of students who have no knowledge of the most elementary facts of American history
					since the Civil War. When they are taken to task for their neglect, they reply that there
					is no textbook dealing with the period, and that the smaller histories are sadly deficient
					in their treatment of our age.
				It is to supply the student and general reader with a handy guide to contemporary history
					that I have undertaken this volume. I have made no attempt to present an "artistically
					balanced" account of the last thirty-five years, but have sought rather to furnish a
					background for the leading issues of current politics and to enlist the interest of the
					student in the history of the most wonderful period in American development. The book is
					necessarily somewhat "impressionistic" and in part it is based upon materials which have
					not been adequately sifted and evaluated. Nevertheless, I have endeavored to be accurate
					and fair, and at the same time to invite on the part of the student some of that free play
					of the mind which Matthew Arnold has shown to be so helpful in literary criticism.
				Although the volume has been designed, in a way, as a textbook, I have thrown aside the
					methods of the almanac and chronicle, and, at the risk of displeasing the reader who
					expects a little about everything (including the Sioux war and the San Francisco
					earthquake),  I have omitted with a light heart many of the
					staples of history in order to treat more fully the matters which seem important from the
					modern point of view. I have also refused to mar the pages with black type, paragraph
					numbers, and other "apparatus" which tradition has prescribed for "manuals." Detailed
					election statistics and the guide to additional reading I have placed in an appendix.
				In the preparation of the book, I have made extensive use of the volumes by Professors
					Dunning, Sparks, Dewey, and Latané, in the American Nation Series, and I wish to
					acknowledge once for all my deep debt to them. My colleague, Mr. B. B. Kendrick, read all
					of the proofs and saved me from many an error. Professor R. L. Schuyler gave me the
					benefit of his criticisms on part of the proof. To Dr. Louis A. Mayers, of the College of
					the City of New York, I am under special obligations for valuable suggestions as to
					arrangement and for drafting a large portion of Chapter III. The shortcomings of the book
					fall to me, but I shall be recompensed for my indiscretions, if this volume is speedily
					followed by a number of texts, large and small, dealing with American history since the
					Civil War. It is showing no disrespect to our ancestors to be as much interested in our
					age as they were in theirs; and the doctrine that we can know more about Andrew Jackson
					whom we have not seen than about Theodore Roosevelt whom we have seen is a pernicious
					psychological error.
				CHARLES A. BEARD.
				COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY, November, 1913.
			


			
			
				TABLE OF CONTENTS
				
					CHAPTER
						PAGE
					THE RESTORATION OF WHITE DOMINION IN THE SOUTH
						1
					THE ECONOMIC REVOLUTION
						27
					THE REVOLUTION IN POLITICS AND LAW
						50
					PARTIES AND PARTY ISSUES, 1877-1896 90
					TWO DECADES OF FEDERAL LEGISLATION, 1877-1896 117
					THE GROWTH OF DISSENT
						143
					THE CAMPAIGN OF 1896 164
					IMPERIALISM
						199
					THE DEVELOPMENT OF CAPITALISM
						229
					THE ADMINISTRATIONS OF THEODORE ROOSEVELT
						254
					THE REVIVAL OF DISSENT
						283
					MR. TAFT AND REPUBLICAN DISINTEGRATION
						317
					THE CAMPAIGN OF 1912 344
					APPENDIX
						382
					BIBLIOGRAPHY
						383
					INDEX
						391
				

			
			
		
		
			
			
				
				
					CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN HISTORY CHAPTER I
				
				
					CHAPTER I
					
						THE RESTORATION OF WHITE DOMINION IN THE SOUTH
						WHEN President Hayes was inaugurated on March 4, 1877, the
							southern whites had almost shaken off the Republican rule which had been set up under
							the protection of Federal soldiers at the close of the Civil War. In only two states,
							Louisiana and South Carolina, were Republican governors nominally in power, and these
							last "rulers of conquered provinces" had only a weak grip upon their offices, which
							they could not have maintained for a moment without the aid of Union troops stationed
							at their capitals. By secret societies, like the Ku Klux Klan, and by open
							intimidation, the conservative whites had practically recovered from the negroes, whom
							the Republicans had enfranchised, the political power which had been wrested from the
							old ruling class at the close of the War. In this nullification of the Fifteenth
							Amendment to the Federal Constitution and other measures designed to secure the
							suffrage for the former bondmen, President Grant had acquiesced, and it was openly
							rumored that Hayes would put an end to the military régime in Louisiana and South
							Carolina, leaving the southern people to fight out their own battles.


						
						Nevertheless, the Republicans in the North were apparently loath to accept
							accomplished facts. In their platform of 1876, upon which Hayes was elected, they
							recalled with pride their achievement in saving the Union and purging the land of
							slavery ; they pledged themselves to pacify the South and protect the rights of all
							citizens there; they pronounced it to be a solemn obligation upon the Federal
							government to enforce the Civil War amendments and to secure "to every citizen
							complete liberty and exact equality in the exercise of all civil, political, and
							public rights." Moreover, they charged the Democratic party with being "the same in
							character and spirit as when it sympathized with treason."
						But this vehement declaration was only the death cry of the gladiators of the radical
							Republican school. Stevens and Sumner, who championed the claims of the negroes to
							full civil and political rights, were gone; and the new leaders, like Conkling and
							Blaine, although they still waxed eloquent over the wrongs of the freedmen, were more
							concerned about the forward swing of railway and capitalist enterprises in the North
							and West than they were about maintaining in the South the rule of a handful of white
							Republicans supported by negro voters. Only a few of the old-school Republicans who
							firmly believed in the doctrine of the "natural rights" of the negro, and the
							officeholders and speculators who were anxious to exploit the South really in their
							hearts supported a continuance of the military rule in "the conquered provinces."
						Moreover, there were special circumstances which made it improbable that President
							Hayes would permit  the further use of troops in Louisiana
							and South Carolina. His election had been stoutly disputed and it was only a stroke of
							good fortune that permitted his inauguration at all. It was openly charged that his
							managers, during the contest over the results of the election in 1876, had promised
							the abolition of the military régime in the South in return for aid on the part of
							certain Democrats in securing a settlement of the dispute in his favor. Hayes himself
							had, however, maintained consistently that vague attitude so characteristic of
							practical politicians. In his speech of acceptance, he promised to help the southern
							states to obtain "the blessings of honest and capable self-government." But he added
							also that the advancement of the prosperity of those states could be made most
							effectually by "a hearty and generous recognition of the rights of all by all."
							Moreover, he approved a statement by one of his supporters to the effect that he would
							restore all freemen to their rights as citizens and at the same time obliterate
							sectional lines--a promise obviously impossible to fulfill.
						Whether there was any real "bargain" between Hayes and the Democratic managers
							matters little, for the policy which he adopted was inevitable, sooner or later,
							because there was no active political support even in the North for a contrary policy.
							A few weeks after his inauguration Hayes sent a commission of eminent men to Louisiana
							to investigate the claims of the rival governments there--for there were two
							legislatures and two governors in that commonwealth contending for power. The
							commission found that the Republican administration, headed by Governor Packard,  was little more than a sham, and advised President Hayes of
							the fact. Thereupon the President, on April 9, 1877, ordered the withdrawal of the
							Federal troops from the public buildings, and Louisiana began the restoration of her
							shattered fortunes under the conservative white leadership. A day later, the President
							also withdrew the troops from the capitol at Columbia, South Carolina, and the
							Democratic administration under Governor Wade Hampton, a former Confederate veteran,
							was duly recognized. Henceforward, the freedmen of the South were to depend upon the
							generosity of the whites and upon their own collective efforts, aided by their
							sympathizers, for whatever civil and political rights they were permitted to
							enjoy.
					
					
						The Disfranchisement of the Negro
						Having secured the abolition of direct Federal military interference with state
							administrations in the South, the Democrats turned to the abrogation of the Federal
							election laws that had been passed in 1870-1871, as a part of the regular
							reconstruction policy for protecting the negroes in the exercise of the suffrage.
							These election laws prescribed penalties for intimidation at the polls, provided for
							the appointment, by Federal circuit courts, of supervisors charged with the duty of
							scrutinizing the entire election process, and authorized the employment of United
							States marshals, deputies, and soldiers to support and protect the supervisors in the
							discharge of their duties and to keep the peace at the polls.
						These laws, the Republican authors urged, were  designed
							to safeguard the purity of the ballot, not only in the South but also in the North,
							and particularly in New York, where it was claimed that fraud was regularly employed
							by the Democratic leaders. John Sherman declared that the Democrats in Congress would
							be a "pitiful minority, if those elected by fraud and bloodshed were debarred," adding
							that, "in the South one million Republicans are disfranchised." Democrats, on the
							other hand, replied that these laws were nothing more than a part of a gigantic scheme
							originated by the Republicans to fasten their rule upon the country forever by
							systematic interference with elections. Democratic suspicions were strengthened by
							reports of many scandals--for instance, that the supervisors in Louisiana under the
							Republican régime had registered "eight thousand more colored voters than there were
							in the state when the census was taken four years later." Undoubtedly, there were
							plenty of frauds on both sides, and it is an open question whether Federal
							interference reduced or increased the amount.
						At all events, the Democrats, finding themselves in a majority in the House of
							Representatives in 1877, determined to secure the repeal of the "force laws," and in
							their desperation they resorted to the practice of attaching their repeal measures to
							appropriation bills in the hope of compelling President Hayes to sign them or tying up
							the wheels of government by a stoppage in finances. Hayes was equal to the occasion,
							and by a vigorous use of the veto power he defeated the direct assaults of the
							Democrats on the election laws. At length, however, in June, 1878, he was compelled to
								 accept a "rider" in the form of a proviso to the annual
							appropriation bill for the army making it impossible for United States marshals to
							employ federal troops in the execution of the election laws. While this did not
							satisfy the Democrats by any means, because it still left Federal supervision under
							the marshals, their deputies and the election supervisors, it took away the main prop
							of the Republicans in the South--the use of troops at elections.
						The effect of this achievement on the part of the Democrats was apparent in the
							succeeding congressional election, for they were able to carry all of the southern
							districts except four. This cannot be attributed, however, entirely to the suppression
							of the negro vote, for there was a general landslide in 1878 which gave the Democrats
							a substantial majority in both the House and the Senate. Inasmuch as a spirit of
							toleration was growing up in Congress, the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
							excluding from Congress certain persons formerly connected with the Confederacy, was
							not strictly enforced, and several of the most prominent and active representatives of
							the old régime found their way into both houses. Under their vigorous leadership a two
							years' political war was waged between Congress and the President over the repeal of
							the force bills, but Hayes won the day, because the Democrats could not secure the
							requisite two-thirds vote to carry their measures against the presidential veto.
						However, the Supreme Court had been undermining the "force laws" by nullifying
							separate sections, although it upheld the general principle of  the election laws against a contention that elections were wholly within the
							control of state authorities. In the case of United States v. Reese,
							the Court, in 1875, declared void two sections of the law of 1870 "because they did
							not strictly limit Federal jurisdiction for protection of the right to vote to cases
							where the right was denied by a state," but extended it to denials
							by private parties. In the same year in the case of United States v.
							Cruikshank the Court gave another blow to Federal control, in the South. A number of
							private citizens in Louisiana had waged war on the blacks at an election riot, and one
							of them, Cruikshank, was charged with conspiracy to deprive negroes of rights which
							they enjoyed under the protection of the United States. The Supreme Court, however,
							held that the Federal government had no authority to protect the citizens of a state
								against one another, but that such protection was, as always, a
							duty of the state itself. Seven years later the Supreme Court, in the case of United
							States v. Harris, declared null that part of the enforcement laws
							which penalized conspiracies of two or more citizens to deprive another of his rights,
							on the same ground as advanced in the Louisiana case.1
						On the withdrawal of Federal troops and the open abandonment of the policy of
							military coercion, the whites, seeing that the Federal courts were not inclined to
							interfere, quickly completed the process of obtaining control over the machinery of
							state government. That process had been begun shortly after the War, taking 1In 1894 the Democrats during
								Cleveland's administration completed the demolition of the system by repealing the
								remaining provisions.
							 the form of intimidation at the polls. It was carried
							forward another step when the "carpet baggers" and other politicians who had organized
							and used the negro vote were deprived of Federal support and driven out. When this
							active outside interference in southern politics was cut off, thousands of negroes
							stayed away from the polls through sheer indifference, for their interest in politics
							had been stimulated by artificial forces--bribery and absurd promises. Intimidation
							and indifference worked a widespread disfranchisement before the close of the
							seventies.
						These early stages in the process of disfranchisement were described by Senator
							Tillman in his famous speech of February 26, 1900. "You stood up there and insisted
							that we give these people a 'free vote and a fair count.' They had it for eight years,
							as long as the bayonets stood there. . . We preferred to have a United States army
							officer rather than a government of carpet baggers and thieves and scallywags and
							scoundrels who had stolen everything in sight and mortgaged posterity; who had run
							their felonious paws into the pockets of posterity by issuing bonds. When that
							happened we took the government away. We stuffed the ballot boxes. We shot them. We
							are not ashamed of it. With that system--force, tissue ballots, etc.--we got tired
							ourselves. So we had a constitutional convention, and we eliminated, as I said, all of
							the colored people whom we could under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments." The
							experience of South Carolina was duplicated in Mississippi. "For a time," said the
							Hon. Thomas Spight, of that state, in Congress, in 1904, "we  were compelled to employ methods that were extremely distasteful and very
							demoralizing, but now we are accomplishing the same and even better results by
							strictly constitutional and legal procedure." It should be said, however, that in the
							states where the negro population was relatively smaller, violence was not necessary
							to exclude the negroes from the polls.
						A peaceful method of disfranchising negroes and poor whites was the imposition of a
							poll tax on voters. Negroes seldom paid their taxes until the fight over prohibition
							commenced in the eighties and nineties. Then the liquor interests began to pay the
							negroes' poll taxes and by a generous distribution of their commodities were able to
							carry the day at the polls. Thereupon the prohibitionists determined to find some
							effective constitutional means of excluding the negroes from voting.
						This last stage in the disfranchisement process--the disqualification of negroes by
							ingenious constitutional and statutory provisions--was hastened by the rise during the
							eighties and nineties of the radical or Populist party in the South, which evenly
							balanced the Democratic party in many places and threatened for a time to disintegrate
							the older organization. In this contest between the white factions a small number of
							active negroes secured an extraordinary influence in holding the balance of power; and
							both white parties sought to secure predominance by purchasing the venal negro vote
							which was as large as, or perhaps larger than, the venal white vote in such northern
							states as Connecticut, Rhode Island, or Indiana. The conservative wing of  the white population was happy to take advantage of the
							prevailing race prejudice to secure the enactment of legislation disfranchising a
							considerable number of the propertyless whites as well as the negroes; and the
							radicals grew tired of buying negro voters.
						Out of this condition of affairs came a series of constitutional conventions which
							devised all sorts of restrictions to exclude the negroes and large numbers of the
							"lower classes" from voting altogether, without directly violating the Fifteenth
							Amendment to the Federal Constitution providing against disfranchisement on account of
							race, color, or previous condition of servitude.
						The series of conventions opened in Mississippi in 1890, where the Populistic whites
							were perhaps numerically fewest. At that time Mississippi was governed under the
							constitution of 1868, which provided that no property or educational test should be
							required of voters, at least not before 1885, and also stipulated that no amendment
							should be made except by legislative proposal ratified by the voters. Notwithstanding
							this provision, the legislature in February, 1890, called a convention to amend the
							constitution "or enact a new constitution." This convention proceeded to "ordain and
							establish" a new frame of government, without referring it to the voters for
							ratification; and the courts of the state set judicial sanction on the procedure,
							saying that popular ratification was not necessary. This constitution provides that
							every elector shall, in addition to possessing other qualifications, "be able to read
							any section of the constitution of this state; or he shall be able to understand the
							same when read to  him or to give a reasonable
							interpretation thereof." Under such a general provision everything depends upon the
							attitude of the election officials toward the applicants for registration, for it is
							possible to disfranchise any person, no matter how well educated, by requiring the
							"interpretation " of some obscure and technical legal point.
						Five years later South Carolina followed the example of Mississippi, and by means of
							a state convention enacted a new constitution disfranchising negroes; and put it into
							force without submitting it to popular ratification.1 The next year (1896) the legislature of Louisiana called a
							convention empowered to frame a new constitution and to put it into effect without
							popular approval. This movement was opposed by the Populists, one of whom declared in
							the legislature that it was "a step in the direction of taking the government of this
							state out of the hands of the masses and putting it in the hands of the classes." In
							spite of the opposition, which was rather formidable, the convention was assembled,
							and ordained a new frame of government (1898) disfranchising negroes and many whites.
							The Hon. T. J. Symmes, addressing the convention at the close, frankly stated that
							their purpose was to establish the supremacy of the Democratic party as the white
							man's party.
						Four principal devices are now employed in the 1 Disfranchising provisions were adopted in
								other southern states as follows: North Carolina, in 1900 ; Alabama and Virginia, in
								1901 ; Georgia, in 1908. See Lobingier, The People's Law, pp. 301
								ff. ; W. F. Dodd, Revision and Amendment of State
								Constitutions.
							 several constitutional provisions disfranchising
							negroes: (1) a small property qualification, (2) a prerequisite that the voter must be
							able to read any section of the state constitution or explain it, when read, to the
							satisfaction of the registering officers, (3) the "grandfather clause," as in
							Louisiana where any person, who voted on or before 1867 or the son or grandson of such
							person, may vote, even if he does not possess the other qualifications; and (4) the
							wide extension of disfranchisement for crimes by including such offenses as obtaining
							money under false pretenses, adultery, wife-beating, petit larceny, fraudulent breach
							of trust, among those which work deprivation of the suffrage.
						The effect of these limitations on the colored vote has been to reduce it seriously
							in the far South. If the negro has the amount of taxable property required by the
							constitution, he is caught by the provision which requires him to explain a section of
							the state constitution to the satisfaction of the white registering officers. The
							meanest white, however, can usually get through the net with the aid of his
							grandfather, or by showing his expertness in constitutional law. Mr. J. C. Rose has
							published the election statistics for South Carolina and Mississippi;1 it appears that in those states there were,
							in 1900, about 350,796 adult male negroes and that the total Republican vote in both
							commonwealths in the national election of that year was only 5443. At a rough guess
							perhaps 2000 votes of this number were cast by white men, and the conclusion must be
							that about ninety-nine out of every hundred negroes failed 1
								The Political Science Review, November, 1906, p. 20.
							 to vote for President in those states. It is fair to
							state, however, that indifference on the part of the negroes was to some extent
							responsible for the small vote.
						The legal restrictions completed the work which had been begun by intimidation. Under
							the new constitution of 1890 in Mississippi, only 8615 negroes out of 147,000 of a
							voting age were registered. In four years, the number registered in Louisiana fell
							from 127,000 in 1896 to 5300 in 1900. This was the exact result which the advocates of
							white supremacy desired to attain, and in this they were warmly supported by emi-
							eminent Democrats in the North. "The white man in the South," said Mr. Bryan in a
							speech in New York, in 1908, "has disfranchised the negro in self-protection; and
							there is not a Republican in the North who would not have done the same thing under
							the same circumstances. The white men of the South are determined that the negro will
							and shall be disfranchised everywhere it is necessary to prevent the recurrence of the
							horrors of carpet bag rule."
						Several attempts have been made to test the constitutionality of these laws in the
							Supreme Court of the United States, but that tribunal has been able to avoid coming to
							a direct decision on the merits of the particular measures--and with a convincing
							display of legal reasoning. The Constitution of the United States simply states that
							no citizen shall be deprived of the right to vote on account of race, color, or
							previous condition of servitude, and that the representation of any state in Congress
							shall be reduced in the proportion to which it deprives adult male citizens of the
							franchise.  The ingenious provisions of the southern
							constitutions do not deprive the negro of the right to vote on account of his color,
							but on account of his grandfather, or his inability to expound the constitution, or
							his poverty. In one of the cases before the Supreme Court, the plaintiff alleged that
							the Alabama constitution was in fact designed to deprive the negro of the vote, but
							the Court answered that it could not afford the remedy, that it could not operate the
							election machinery of the state, and that relief would have to come from the state
							itself, or from the legislative and political departments of the Federal
								government.1
					
					
						Social Discrimination against the Negro
						The whites in the South were even less willing to submit to anything approaching
							social equality with the negro than they were to accept political equality.
							Discriminations against the negro in schools, inns, theaters, churches, and other
							public places had been common in the North both before and after the Civil War, and
							had received judicial sanction; and it may well be imagined that the southern masters
							were in no mood, after the War, to be put on the same social plane as their former
							slaves, and the poor whites were naturally proud of their only possession--a white
							skin. Knowing full well that this temper prevailed in the South the radical
							Republicans in Congress had pushed through on March 1, 1875, a second Civil Rights Act
							designed to establish a certain social equality, so far as that could be done by
							law.
						1 Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S., 474.


						
						The spirit of this act was reflected in the preamble: "Whereas it is essential to
							just government, we recognize the equality of all men before the law, and hold that it
							is the duty of government in its dealings with the people to mete out equal and exact
							justice to all, of whatever nativity, race, color, or persuasion, religious or
							political; and it being the appropriate object of legislation to enact great
							fundamental principles into law." After this profession of faith, the act proceeds to
							declare that all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States shall be
							entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages,
							facilities, and privileges of inns, public conveyances on land or water, theaters and
							other places of amusement, subject to limitations applied to all alike, regardless of
							race or color. The act further provided that in the selection of jurors no
							discrimination should be made on account of race, color, or previous condition of
							servitude under a penalty of not more than $5,000. Jurisdiction over offenses was
							conferred upon the district and circuit courts of the United States, and heavy
							penalties were imposed upon those who violated the law. This measure was, of course,
							hotly resisted, and, in fact, nullified everywhere throughout the Union, north and
							south--except in some of the simple rural regions.
						The validity of the act came before the Supreme Court for adjudication in the
							celebrated Civil Rights Cases in 1883 and a part of the law was declared
							unconstitutional in an opinion of the Court rendered by Mr. Justice Bradley. According
							to his view, the Fourteenth Amendment did not authorize Congress to legislate  upon subjects which were in the domain of state
							legislation--that is to create a code of municipal law for the regulation of private
							rights; but it merely authorized Congress to provide modes of relief against state
							legislation and the action of state officers, executive or judicial, which were
							subversive of the fundamental rights specified in the amendment. "Until some state law
							has been passed," he said, "or some state action through its officers or agents has
							been taken, adverse to the rights of citizens sought to be protected by the Fourteenth
							Amendment, no legislation of the United States under said Amendment, nor any
							proceeding under such legislation can be called into activity: for the prohibitions of
							the Amendment are against state laws and acts done under state authority."
						The question as to whether the equal enjoyment of the accommodations in inns,
							conveyances, and places of amusement was an essential right of the citizen which no
							state could abridge or interfere with, Justice Bradley declined to examine on the
							ground that it was not necessary to the decision of the case. He did, however, inquire
							into the proposition as to whether Congress, in enforcing the Thirteenth Amendment
							abolishing slavery and involuntary servitude, could secure the social equality
							contemplated by the act, under the color of sweeping away all the badges and incidents
							of slavery. And on this point he came to the conclusion that mere discriminations on
							account of race or color could not be regarded as badges of slavery. "There were," he
							added, "thousands of free colored people in this country before the abolition of
							slavery, enjoying all of the essential  rights of life,
							liberty, and property the same as white citizens; and yet no one at that time thought
							that it was any invasion of his personal status as a freeman because he was not
							admitted to all of the privileges enjoyed by white citizens, or because he was
							subjected to discriminations in the enjoyment of accommodations in inns, public
							conveyances, and places of amusement."
						Clearly, there was no authority in either the Thirteenth or Fourteenth Amendment for
							the section of the Civil Rights Act relative to inns, conveyances, and places of
							amusement, at least so far as its operation in the several states was concerned. If,
							however, any state should see fit to make or authorize unlawful discriminations
							amenable to the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment, Congress had the power to
							afford a remedy or the courts in enforcing the Amendment could give judicial relief.
							Thus, while the Justice did not definitely say that the elements of social equality
							provided in the Civil Rights Act were not guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, his
							line of reasoning and his language left little doubt as to what was the view of the
							Court.
						Section four of the Civil Rights Act forbidding, under penalty, discrimination
							against any person on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude in
							the selection of jurors had been passed upon by the Supreme Court in the case of Ex parte Virginia, decided in 1879, in which the section was held to
							be constitutional as providing not a code of municipal law for the regulation of
							private rights, but a mode of redress against the operation of state laws. The ground
							of distinction between the two cases is clear. A section forbidding  discrimination in inns and conveyances is in the nature of
							a code of private law, but a section forbidding discrimination in the selection of
							jurors under penalty simply provides a mode of redress against violations of the
							Fourteenth Amendment by state authorities.
						Undoubtedly there is an admissible distinction between discrimination against negroes
							in the selection of juries and the discrimination against them in inns and public
							conveyances, for the former may have definite connection with the security of those
							civil rights of person and property--as distinct from social rights--which the
							Fourteenth Amendment was clearly designed to enforce. This was the principle which was
							brought out by the Court in the two decisions.1 But if Justice Bradley in the Civil Rights cases had
							frankly made the distinction between civil and social rights, and declared the act unconstitutional on the ground that it
							attempted to secure social rights which the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to
							establish, then the decisions of the Court would have been far more definite in
							character.
						Even if the Supreme Court had not declared the social equality provision of the Civil
							Rights Act unconstitutional, it is questionable whether any real attempt would have
							been made to enforce it. As it turned out, the Court gave judicial sanction to a view
							undoubtedly entertained by the major portion of the whites everywhere, and it
							encouraged the South to proceed with 1 See a Massachusetts case decided before the Civil War
								upholding similar discriminations against negroes. Thayer, Cases on
									Constitutional Law, Vol. I, p. 576.
							 further discriminatory legislation separating the races
							in all public and quasi-public places. Railroads and common carriers were compelled to
							provide separate accommodations for whites and blacks, "Jim Crow Cars," as they are
							called in popular parlance, and to furnish special seats in street railway cars. These
							laws have also been upheld by the courts; but not without a great strain on their
							logical faculties.
						Undoubtedly there are mixed motives behind such legislation. It is in some part a
							class feeling, for whites are allowed to take their colored servants in the regular
							coaches and sleeping cars. Nevertheless, the race feeling unquestionably predominates.
							As the author of the Louisiana "Jim Crow Car" law put it: "It is not only the desire
							to separate the whites and blacks on the railroads for the comfort it will provide,
							but also for the moral effect. The separation of the races is one of the benefits, but
							the demonstration of the superiority of the white man over the negro is the greater
							thing. There is nothing that shows it more conclusively than the compelling of negroes
							to ride in cars marked for their especial use."
					
					
						 The Attitude of the North
						Although all possibility of northern interference with the southern states in the
							management of their domestic affairs seemed to have disappeared by Cleveland's first
							administration, the negro question was continuously agitated by Republican
							politicians, and at times with great vigor. They were much distressed at losing their
								 Federal patronage after the election of Cleveland in
							1884; and this first Democratic presidential victory after the War led many of them to
							believe that they could recover their lost ground only by securing to the negro the
							right to vote. The Republicans were also deeply stirred by the over-representation of
							the South in the House of Representatives under the prevailing system of
							apportionment. They pointed out that the North was, in this respect, at even a greater
							disadvantage than before the Civil War and emancipation.
						Under the original Constitution of the United States, only three fifths of the slaves
							were counted in apportioning representatives among the states; under the Fourteenth
							Amendment all the negroes were counted, thus enlarging the representation of the
							southern states. And yet the negroes were for practical purposes as disfranchised as
							they were when they were in servitude. It was pointed out that "in the election of
							1888 the average vote cast for a member of Congress in five southern states was less
							than eight thousand; in five northern states, over thirty-six thousand. Kansas, which
							cast three times the vote of South Carolina, had only the same number of congressmen."
							The discrepancy tended to increase, if anything. In 1906, a Mississippi district with
							a population of 232,174 cast 1540 votes, while a New York district with 215,305 cast
							29,119 votes.
						The Republicans have several times threatened to alter this anomalous condition of
							affairs. In 1890, Mr. Lodge introduced in the House of Representatives a bill
							providing for the appointment of federal election commissioners, on petition of local
							voters, endowed with  powers to register and count all
							votes, even in the face of the opposition of local officers. This measure, which
							passed the House, was at length killed in the Senate. In their platform of 1904, the
							Republicans declared in favor of restoring the negro to his rights under the
							Constitution, and for political purposes the party in the House later coupled a
							registration and election law with the measure providing for publicity of campaign
							contributions. It was not acted upon in the Senate. In 1908, the Republicans in their
							platform declared "once more and without reservation, for the enforcement in letter
							and spirit of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution
							which were designed for the protection and advancement of the negro," and condemned
							all devices designed to disfranchise him on grounds of color alone. Although they have
							been in possession of all branches of the Federal government several times, the
							Republicans have deemed it inexpedient to carry out their campaign promises.
						With the decline in the influence of the Civil War veterans in politics, the
							possibility of Federal interference has steadily decreased. The North had never been
							abolitionist in temper or political belief, as the vote of the Free Soil party
							demonstrates. The Republican party was a homestead, railway, and protectionist party
							opposed to slavery in the territories, and its great leader, Lincoln, had long been on
							record as opposed to political and social equality for the negro. Emancipation had
							come as a stroke of fortune--not because a majority of the people had deliberately
							come to the conclusion that it was a measure of justice. As in the  French Revolution at its height, the extreme radicals
							forged to the front for a time, so during the Civil War and its aftermath, "radical"
							Republicans held the center of the stage and gave to politics a flavor of talk about
							"human rights" which was foreign to practical statesmen like Clay and Webster. In a
							little while, practical men came to the helm once more, and they were primarily
							interested in economic matters--railways, finance, tariff, corporations, natural
							resources, and western development. The cash nexus with the South was formed once
							more, and made far stronger and subtler than in olden days. Agitation of the negro
							question became bad form in the North, except for quadrennial political purposes.
					
					
						The Negro Problem
						Thus the negro, suddenly elevated to a great height politically, was almost as
							suddenly dropped by his new friends and thrown largely upon his own ingenuity and
							resources for further advance. His emancipation and enfranchisement had come almost
							without effort on his own part, without that development of economic interest and of
							class consciousness that had marked the rise of other social strata to political
							power. It was fortuitous and had no solid foundation. It became evident, therefore,
							that any permanent advance of the race must be built on substantial elements of power
							in the race itself. The whites might help with education and industrial training, but
							the hope of the race lay in the development of intellectual and economic power on its
							own account.


						
						In relative numerical strength the negro is not holding his own, because of the large
							immigration from Europe. In 1790, the negro population formed 19.3 per cent of the
							whole, and since that time it has almost steadily declined, reaching at the last
							census 10.7 per cent of the whole. Even in the southern states where the stream of
							foreign immigration is the least, the negro population has fallen from 35.2 per cent
							in 1790 to 29.8 per cent in 1910. In education, the negro has undoubtedly made great
							progress since the War, but it must be remembered that he was then at the bottom of
							the scale. The South, though poor as compared with the North, has made large
							expenditures for negro education, but it is authoritatively reported that "nearly half
							of the negro children of school age in the South never get inside of the schoolhouse."
								1 The relative expenditures
							for the education of white and colored children there are not ascertainable, but
							naturally the balance is heavily in favor of the former. When we recall, however,
							the total illiteracy of the race under slavery and then discover that in 1910 there
							was an average daily attendance of 1,105,629 colored children in the southern schools,
							we cannot avoid the conclusion that decided changes are destined to be made in the
							intellectual outlook of the race.
						Reports also show that negroes are accumulating considerable property and are
							becoming in large numbers the holders of small farms. Nevertheless a very careful
							scholar, Dr. Walter Willcox, believes that the figures "seem to show that the negro
							race at the South, in its 1 This is partly due to the absence of compulsory attendance laws.
							 competition with the whites, lost ground between 1890
							and 1900 in the majority of skilled occupations which can be distinguished by the aid
							of the census figures." Taking the economic status of the race as a whole, the same
							authority adds: "The conclusion to which I am brought is that relatively to the whites
							in the South, if not absolutely as measured by any conceivable standard, the negro as
							a race is losing ground, is being confined more and more to the inferior and less
							remunerative occupations, and is not sharing proportionately to his numbers in the
							prosperity of the country as a whole or of the section in which he mainly lives."
						The conclusions of the statistician are confirmed by the impressions of such eminent
							champions of the negro as Dr. W. B. Dubois and Mr. Thomas Fortune. The former declares
							that "in well-nigh the whole rural South the black farmers are peons, bound by law and
							custom to an economic slavery, from which the only escape is death or the
							penitentiary." The latter holds that the negro has simply passed from chattel to
							industrial slavery "with none of the legal and selfish restraints upon the employer
							which surrounded and actuated the master." These writers attribute the slow advance of
							the race to the bondage of law and prejudice to which it is subjected in the South,
							and everywhere in the country, as a matter of fact. Whatever the cause may be, there
							seems to be no doubt that the colored race has not made that substantial economic
							advance and achieved that standard of life which its friends hoped would follow from
							emancipation. Those writers who emphasize heredity in social evolution point to this
							as an evidence of the  inherent disabilities of the race;
							while those who emphasize environment point out the immense handicap everywhere
							imposed on the race by law, custom, and prejudice.
						Whatever may be the real truth about the economic status of the race, and after all
							it is the relative progress of the mass that determines the future of the race, there
							can be no doubt that there is an increasing "race consciousness" which will have to be
							reckoned with. The more conservative school, led by Booker T. Washington, is working
							to secure for the negro an industrial training that will give him some kind of an
							economic standing in the community, and if this is achieved for large numbers, a
							radical change in social and political outlook will follow, unless all signs of
							history fail. On the other hand, there is growing up a radical party, under the
							inspiration of Dr. W. B. Dubois, which pleads for unconditional political and social
							equality as a measure of immediate justice. Dr. Dubois demands "the raising of the
							negro in America to full rights and citizenship. And I mean by this no halfway
							measures; I mean full and fair equality. That is, a chance to work regardless of
							color, to aspire to position and preferment on the basis of desert alone, to have the
							right to use public conveniences; to enter public places of amusement on the same
							terms as other people, and to be received socially by such persons as might wish to
							receive them."
						With both of these influences at work and all the forces of modern life playing upon
							the keener section of the colored population, nothing but congenital disabilities can
							prevent a movement which ruling persons, North and South, will have to take into
							account. How  serious this movement becomes depends,
							however, upon the innate capacity of colored masses to throw off the shiftlessness and
							indifference to high standards of life that, their best friends admit, stand in the
							way of their gaining a substantial economic basis, without which any kind of a solid
							political superstructure is impossible. The real negro question now is: "Can the race
							demonstrate that capacity for sustained economic activity and permanent organization
							which has lifted the white masses from serfdom ?"
					
				
				
				
				
					CHAPTER II
					
						THE ECONOMIC REVOLUTION
						LONG before the Civil War, steam and machinery had begun to invade
							American industries and statesmen of the new commercial and industrial order had
							appeared in Washington. The census of 1860 reported nearly a million and a half wage
							earners in the United States, and more than a billion dollars invested in
							manufacturing. By that year over thirty thousand miles of railway had been
							constructed, including such important lines as the New York Central, the Erie, the
							Baltimore and Ohio, and the Pennsylvania. Politicians of the type of Stephen A.
							Douglas, who discussed slavery in public and devoted their less obvious activities to
							securing grants of public lands and mineral resources to railway and manufacturing
							corporations, had begun to elbow the more cultivated and respectable leaders like
							Calhoun, Webster, and Alexander Stephens, who belonged to the old order.
						But the spectacular conflict over slavery prevented the political results of the
							economic transformation from coming to the surface. Those who had occasion to watch
							the proceedings of Congress during the two decades just before the War discovered the
							manipulations of railway corporations seeking land grants and  privileges from the Federal Government and the operations of the
							"protected" interests in behalf of increased tariffs. Those were also harvest days for
							corporations and companies in the state legislatures where special charters and
							privileges were being bartered away by the wholesale. There was emerging in a number
							of the larger industrial centers a small, though by no means negligible, labor
							movement. But the slavery issue overshadowed everything. The annexation of Texas,
							slavery in the territories, the Compromise of 1850, the Nebraska bill, and Bleeding
							Kansas kept the mind of the North from the consideration of the more fundamental
							economic problems connected with the new order. The politicians, to be sure, did not
							live by the slavery agitation alone, but it afforded the leading topics for public
							discussion and prevented the critical from inquiring too narrowly into the real
							staples of politics.
						The Civil War sharply shifted the old scenery of politics. It gave a tremendous
							impetus to industry and railway construction. The tariff measures during the War gave
							to manufacturers an unwonted protection against foreign competition; the demand for
							war supplies, iron, and steel, railway materials, textiles, and food supplies,
							quickened every enterprise in the North; the great fortunes made out of speculations
							in finances, contracts for government supplies, and land-grants placed an enormous
							capital in private hands to carry forward business after the War was over.
						Within little more than a quarter of a century the 
							advance of industry and commerce had made the United States of Lincoln's day seem
							small and petty. The census of 1905 showed over twelve billion dollars invested in
							factories and nearly five and one half million wage earners employed. In that year,
							the total value of manufactured products was over fourteen billion dollars--fifteen
							times the amount turned out in 1860. As late as 1882 the United States imported
							several hundred thousand tons of steel rails annually, but within ten years the import
							had fallen to 134 tons and no less than 15,000 tons were exported. At the close of the
							Civil War about 3000 tons of Bessemer steel were produced annually, but within twenty
							years over two million tons were put out every twelve months.
						The building of railways more than kept pace with the growth of the population and
							the increase in manufacturing. There were 30,000 miles of lines in 1860; 52,000 in
							1870; 166,000 in 1890; and 242,000 in 1910. Beginning at first with the construction
							of lines between strategic centers like Boston and Albany, and Philadelphia and
							Reading, the leaders in this new enterprise grew more bold. They pushed rapidly into
							the West where there were no cities of magnitude and no prospect of developing a
							profitable business within the immediate future. Capital flowed into the railways like
							water; European investors caught the fever; farmers and merchants along prospective
							lines bought stocks and bonds, expecting to reap a harvest from increased land values
							and business, only to find their paper valueless on account of preferred claims for
							construction; and the whole West was aflame with dreams 
							of a new Eldorado to be created by transportation systems.
						The era of feverish construction was shortly followed by the combination of lines and
							the formation of grand trunk railways and particular "systems." In 1869, Cornelius
							Vanderbilt united the Hudson River and New York Central lines, linking the metropolis
							and Buffalo, and four years later he opened the way to Chicago by leasing the Lake
							Shore Michigan and Southern. About the same time two other eastern companies, the
							Pennsylvania and Baltimore and Ohio secured western connections which let them into
							Chicago.
						It must not be thought that this rapid railway expansion was due solely to private
							enterprise, for, as has been the standing custom in American politics, the cost of
							doubtful or profitless undertakings was thrown as far as possible upon the public
							treasury. Up to 1872, the Federal Government had granted in aid of railways
							155,000,0000 acres of land, an area estimated as "almost equal to the New England
							states, New York, and Pennsylvania combined; nineteen different states had voted sums
							aggregating two hundred million dollars for the same purpose ; and municipalities and
							individuals had subscribed several hundred million dollars to help railway
							construction." To the Union Pacific concern alone the Federal Government had granted a
							free right of way through public lands, twenty sections of land with each mile of
							railway, and a loan up to fifty million dollars secured by a second mortgage on the
							company's property. The Northern Pacific obtained lands which a railway official
							estimated to be worth enough "to  build the entire
							railroad to Puget Sound, to fit out a fleet of sailing vessels and steamers for the
							China and India trade and leave a surplus that would roll up into the millions."
							Cities, townships, counties, and states voted bonds to help build railways within
							their limits or granted rights of way and lands, in addition, with a lavish hand.
						The chronicle of all the frauds connected with the manipulation of land grants to
							railways and the shameless sale of legal privileges cannot be written, because in most
							instances no tangible records have been left. Perhaps the most notorious of all was
							the Crédit Mobilier scandal connected with the Union Pacific. The leading stockholders
							in that company determined to secure for themselves a large portion of the profits of
							construction, which were enormous on account of the prodigal waste; and they organized
							a sham concern known as the Crédit Mobilier in which they had full control and to
							which the construction profits went. Inasmuch as the Federal Government through its
							grants and loans was an interested party that might interfere at any time, the
							concern, through its agent in Congress, Oakes Ames, a representative from
							Massachusetts, distributed generous blocks of stock to "approachable" Senators and
							Representatives. News of the transaction leaked out, and a congressional investigation
							in 1872 showed that a number of men of the highest standing, including Mr. Colfax, the
							Vice President, were deeply implicated. Nothing was done, however; the leading
							conspirator, Ames, was merely censured by the House, and the booty, for the most part,
							remained in the  hands of those connected with the
							scandal. When the road was complete, "it was saddled with interest payments on
							$27,000,000 first mortgage bonds, $27,000,000 government bonds, $10,000,000 income
							bonds, $10,000,000 land grant bonds, and if anything were left, dividend payments on
							$36,000,000 of stock."
						It would be easy to multiply figures showing astounding gains in industry, business,
							foreign trade, and railways; or to multiply stories of scandalous and unfair practices
							on the part of financiers, but we are not primarily concerned here with the technique
							of inventions or the history of promotion.1 The student of social and political evolution is concerned
							rather with the effect of such material changes upon the structure of society, that
							is, with the rearrangements of classes and the development of new groups of interests,
							which are brought about by altered methods of gaining a livelihood and accumulating
							fortunes. It is this social transformation that changes the relation of the
							individual to the state and brings new forces to play in the struggle for political
							power. The social transformation which followed the Civil War embraced the
							following elements.
						1 The following brief
							chronology of inventions illustrates the rapidity in the technical changes in the new
							industrial development:1875--Bell's telephone in operation between Boston and Salem.
							1879--Brush arc street lighting system installed in San Francisco.1882--Edison's
							plant for incandescent lighting opened in New York City.1882--Edison's electric
							street car operated at Menlo Park, New Jersey.1885--Electric street railways in
							operation at Richmond, Virginia, and Baltimore.


						

						In the first place, capital, as contrasted with agriculture, increased enormously in
							amount and in political influence. Great pecuniary accumulations were thenceforward
							made largely in business enterprise--including the work of the entrepreneur,
							financier, speculator, and manipulator under that general term. Inevitably, the most
							energetic and the keenest minds were attracted by the dominant mode of money-making.
							Agricultural regions were drained of large numbers of strenuous and efficient men, who
							would otherwise have been their natural leaders in politics. To these were added the
							energetic immigrants from the Old World. That forceful, pushing, dominating section of
							society historically known as the "natural aristocracy " became the agents of
							capitalism. The scepter of power now passed definitively from the masters of slaves to
							the masters of "free laborers." The literary and professional dependents of the ruling
							groups naturally came to the defense of the new order.1 The old contest between agrarianism and capitalism now
							took on a new vigor.2
						On the side of the masses involved in the transition this economic revolution meant
							an increasing proportion of wage workers as contrasted with agriculturalists, owning
							and operating their farms, and with handicraftsmen. This increase is shown by the
							following table, giving the number of wage earners in manufacturing
							alone :
						1For the keenest analysis
							of this social transformation, see Veblen, Theory of the Leisure
								Class and Theory of Business Enterprise.
						2 See below, Chaps. VI and
							VII.



						
						
							
								
									
							POPULATION
								WAGE EARNERS
											1850
										23,191,876
										957,059
			               1860
					            31,443,321
			               	1,311,246	
									1870
										38,558,371
										2,053,996
									1880
									50,155,783
									2,732,595
									1890
									62,947,714
									4,251,535
									1900
									75,994,575
									5,306,143
									1910
									91,972,266
									6,615,046
									
								
									
									
								
									
							
								

						In terms of social life, this increase in wage workers meant, in the first place, a
							rapid growth of city populations. In 1860, the vast majority of the people were
							agriculturists; in 1890, 36.1 per cent of the population lived in towns of over 2500;
							in 1900, 40.5 per cent; in 1910, 46.3 per cent. In the forty years between the
							beginning of the Civil War and the close of the century, Chicago had grown from
							109,260 to 1,698,575; Greater New York from 1,174,779 to 3,437,202; San Francisco from
							56,802 to 342,782.
						In the next place, the demand for labor stimulated immigration from Europe. It is
							true there was a decline during the Civil War, and the panic of 1873 checked the tide
							when it began to flow, but by 1880 it had nearly touched the half-a-million mark, and
							by 1883 it reached the astounding figure of 788,992. Almost all of this immigration
							was from Germany, Ireland, Great Britain, and Scandinavian countries, less than one in
							twenty of the total number coming from Austria-Hungary, Italy, and Poland in 1880. On
							the Pacific coast, railway building and industrial enterprise, in the great dearth  of labor, resorted to the Orient for large supplies of
							Chinese coolies.
						This industrial development meant the transformation of vast masses of the people
							into a proletariat, with all the term implies: an immense population housed in
							tenements and rented dwellings, the organization of the class into trades-unions,
							labor parties, and other groups; poverty and degradation on a large scale; strikes,
							lockouts, and social warfare; the employment of large numbers of women and children in
							factories; the demand for all kinds of legislation mitigating the evils of the
							capitalist process; and finally attacks upon the very basis of the industrial system
							itself.
						This inevitable concomitant of the mechanical revolution, the industrial proletariat,
							began to make itself felt as a decided political and economic factor in the decade
							that followed the War. Between 1860 and 1870, the railway engineers, firemen,
							conductors, bricklayers, and cigar makers had formed unions. In the campaign of 1872 a
							party of Labor Reformers appeared; and a few years later the Knights of Labor, a grand
							consolidated union of all trades and grades of workers, came into existence as an
							active force, conducting an agitation for labor bureaus, an eight hour day, abolition
							of contract labor systems, and other reforms, and at the same time engineering
							strikes.
						In 1877 occurred the first of the great labor struggles in that long series of
							campaigns which have marked the relations of capitalists and workingmen during the
							past four decades. In that year, trouble began between the management of the Baltimore
							and Ohio railway and  its employees over a threatened
							reduction in wages--the fourth within a period of seven years. From this starting
							point the contest spread throughout the East and Middle West, reaching as far as
							Texas. Inasmuch as there was already considerable unemployment, the strikers saw that
							only by violence and intimidation could they hope to prevent the companies from moving
							their trains. Troops were called out by the governors of several states and Federal
							assistance was invoked. Pittsburgh fell almost completely into the hands of the
							strikers; railway buildings were burned and property to the value of more than ten
							million dollars destroyed. Everywhere the raw militia of the states was found to be
							inefficient for such a serious purpose, and the superior power of the Federal
							Government's regular troops was demonstrated. Where railways were in the hands of
							receivers, Federal courts intervened by the use of injunctions and the first blood in
							the contest between the judiciary and labor was drawn.
						The last, but perhaps most significant, result of the industrial revolution above
							described has been the rise of enormous combinations and corporations in industry as
							well as in transportation. An increasing proportion of the business of the country has
							passed steadily into corporate, as contrasted with individual, ownership; 1 and this implies a momentous
							change in the rights, responsibilities, and economic theories of the owners of
							capital. Moreover, it involves the creation of a new class of men, not entrepreneurs
							in the old sense, but organizers of already established concerns into larger units.
								1 See below, p.
								234.


						

						The industrial revolution had not advanced very far before an intense competition
							began to force business men to combine to protect themselves against their own
							weapons. As early as 1879 certain oil interests of Cleveland, Pittsburgh,
							Philadelphia, and other centers had begun to control competition by making agreements
							through their officers. Three years later, they devised an excellent scheme for a
							closer organization in the formation of a "trust." They placed all their stocks in the
							hands of nine trustees, including John D. Rockefeller, who issued in return
							certificates representing the proportionate share of each holder in the concern, and
							managed the entire business in the interests of the holders.
						The trust proved to be an attractive proposition to large business concerns. Within
							five years combinations had been formed in cotton oil, linseed oil, lead, sugar,
							whisky, and cordage, and it was not long before a system of interlocking interests
							began to consolidate the control of all staple manufactures in the hands of a few
							financiers. Six years after its formation the Standard Oil Company was paying
							to a small group of holders about $20,000,000 annually in dividends on a capital of
							$90,000,000, and the recipients of these large dividends began to invest in other
							concerns. In 1879, one of them, H. M. Flagler, became a director of the Valley
							Railroad; in 1882, William Rockefeller appeared as one of the directors of the
							Chicago, Milwaukee, and St. Paul; in 1887, John D. Rockefeller was connected with a
							syndicate which absorbed the Minnesota Iron Company, and about the same time
							representatives of  the Oil Trust began to figure in the
							Northern Pacific, the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas, and the Ohio River railways. Thus a
							perfect network of financial connections throughout the country was built up.
						But on the whole the decades following the Civil War were characterized by economic
								anarchy--laissez faire with a vengeance. There were prolonged
							industrial crises accompanied by widespread unemployment and misery among the working
							classes. In the matter of railway management the chaos was unparalleled.
						Shortly after 1870 a period of ruinous competition set in and was followed by severe
							financial crises among the railways. Passenger and freight rate "wars" for the
							"through" traffic brought many roads to the verge of bankruptcy, in spite of their
							valiant efforts to save themselves by exorbitant charges on subsidiary branches where
							they had no competition. Crooked financeering, such as the watering of stocks,
							misappropriation of construction funds by directors, and the purchase of bankrupt
							lines by directors of larger companies and their resale at great advances, placed a
							staggering burden of interest charges against practically all of the lines. In 1873
							nearly half of the mileage in the country was in the hands of court receivers, and
							between 1876 and 1879 an average of more than one hundred roads a year were sold under
							the foreclosure of mortgages. In all this distress the investors at large were the
							losers while the "inside" operators such as Jay Gould, Cornelius Vanderbilt, and
							Russell Sage doubled their already overtopping fortunes.
						A very good example of this "new finance" is afforded 
							by the history of the Erie Railway. In 1868, Vanderbilt determined to secure
							possession of this line which ran across New York State in competition with the New
							York Central and Hudson River lines. Jay Gould and a group of operators, who had
							control of the Erie, proceeded to water the stock and "unload" upon Vanderbilt, whose
							agents bought it in the hope of obtaining the coveted control. After a steeple chase
							for a while the two promoters came to terms at the expense of the stockholders and the
							public. Between July 1 and October 24, 1868, the stock of the Erie was increased from
							$34,000,000 to $57,000,000, and the price went downward like a burnt rocket. During
							the short period of Gould's administration of the Erie "the capital stock of the road
							had been increased $61,425,700 and the construction account had risen from $49,247,700
							in 1867 to $108,807,687 in 1872. Stock to the amount of $40,700,000 had been marketed
							by the firm of Smith, Gould, and Martin, and, incredible as it may seem, its sale had
							netted the company only $12,803,059." 1
						The anarchy in railway financing, which characterized the two decades after the War,
							was also accompanied by anarchy in management. A Senate investigating committee in
							1885 enumerated the following charges against the railroads: that local rates were
							unreasonably high as compared with through rates; that all rates were based apparently
							not on cost of service but "what the traffic would bear"; that discriminations between
							individuals for the same services were constant; that "the effect of the prevailing
							policy of 1 Youngman, The
								Economic Causes of Great Fortunes, p. 75.
							 railroad management is, by an elaborate system of secret
							special rates, rebates, drawbacks, and concessions, to foster monopoly, to enrich
							favorite shippers, to prevent free competition in many lines of trade in which the
							item of transportation is an important factor;" that secret rate cutting was
							constantly demoralizing business; that free passes were so extensively issued as to
							create a privileged class, thus increasing the cost to the passenger who paid; that
							the capitalization and bonded indebtedness of companies largely exceeded the actual
							cost of construction; and that railway corporations were engaged in other lines of
							business and discriminating against competitors by unfair rate manipulations. In a
							word, the theories about competition written down in the books on political economy
							were hopelessly at variance with the facts of business management; the country was at
							the mercy of the sharp practices of transportation promoters.
						However, emphasis upon this great industrial revolution should not be allowed to
							obscure the no less remarkable development in agriculture. The acreage in improved
							farm lands rose from 113,032,614 in 1850 to 478,451,750 in 1910. In the same period
							the number of farms increased from 1,449,073 to 6,361,502. Notwithstanding the
							significant fact that "whereas the total population increased 21 per cent between 1900
							and 1910, the urban population increased 34.8 per cent and the rural population 11.2
							per cent," the broad basis of the population during the half a century here under
							consideration has remained agricultural, and in 1913 it 
							was estimated that at the present rate of transformation "it will take a generation
							before the relative number of industrial wage workers will have reached half of all
							bread winners."
				
				
						The Development of the West
						When Hayes was inaugurated, a broad wedge of territory separated the organized states
							of the East from their sister commonwealths in the far West--Oregon, California, and
							Nevada. Washington, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico, Dakota, and
							Indian Territory still remained territories. Their combined population in 1870 was
							under half a million, less than that of the little state of Connecticut. New Mexico
							with 91,000 and Utah with 86,000 might, with some show of justification, have claimed
							a place among the states because Oregon was inhabited by only 90,000 people. The
							commonwealth of Nevada, with 42,000, was an anomaly; it had been admitted to the Union
							in 1864 to secure the ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment abolishing slavery.
						This vast and sparsely settled region was then in the second stage of its economic
							evolution. The trapper, hunter, and explorer had gathered most of their harvest, and
							the ranchmen and cowboys with their herds of cattle were roaming the great grazing
							areas, waging war on thieves, land syndicates, and finally going down to defeat in the
							contest with the small farmer who fenced off the fertile fields and planted his
							homestead there. So bitter were the contests among the cattle  kings, and so extensive was the lawlessness in these regions during the
							seventies and early eighties that Presidents were more than once compelled to warn the
							warlike parties and threaten them with the Federal troops.
						Of course, the opening of the railways made possible a rapidity in the settlement of
							the remaining territories which outrivaled that of the older regions. The first
							Pacific railroad had been completed in 1869; the Southern Pacific connecting New
							Orleans with the coast was opened in 1881; and two years later the Atchison, Topeka,
							and Santa Fe was finished, and the last stroke was put on the Northern Pacific,
							connecting Chicago and Portland, Oregon. Thus four lines of communication were
							established with the coast, traversing the best agricultural regions of the
							territories and opening up the mineral-bearing regions of the mountains as well.
							Lawless promoters fell upon the land and mineral resources with that rapacity which
							Burke attributed to Hastings.
						Utah presented, in the eighties, the elements of an ordered and well-advanced
							civilization and could with some show of reason ask for admission as a state. The
							territory had been developed by the Mormons who settled there, after suffering
							"persecution" for their religious opinions and their plural marriages, in Illinois and
							Missouri. Notwithstanding an act of Congress passed in 1862 prohibiting polygamy, it
							continued to flourish. The territorial officers were nearly all Mormons and the
							remoteness of the Federal authority prevented an enforcement of the law. Consequently,
							it remained a  dead letter until 1882, when Congress
							enacted the Edmunds law prescribing heavy penalties, including the loss of
							citizenship, for polygamous practices. Hundreds of prosecutions and convictions
							followed, but plural marriages were openly celebrated in defiance of the law. At
							length, in 1887, Congress passed the Edmunds-Tucker act authorizing the Federal
							Government to seize the property of the Mormon church.
						Meanwhile the gentile population increased in the territory; and at length the
							Mormons, seeing that the country was determined to suppress polygamy and that, while
							the institution was maintained, statehood could not be secured, decided upon at least
							an outward acquiescence in the law. After much discussion in Congress, and
							notwithstanding the repeated contention that the Mormons were not sincere in their
							promises, Utah was admitted as a state in 1895 under a constitution which, in
							accordance with the provisions of the enabling act of Congress, forbade polygamous and
							plural marriages forever. Thus the inhabitants of the new state were bound by a solemn
							contract with the Union never to restore the marriage practices which had caused them
							so much trouble and "persecution," as they called it.
						Although the Mormons were the original pioneers and homestead makers in that great
							region, theirs was in fact the last of the middle tier of territories to receive
							statehood. They had left the advancing frontier line far behind. To the northward that
							advance was checked by the enormous Sioux reservation in Dakota, but the discovery of
							gold in the Black Hills marked the  doom of the Indian
							rights. Miners and capitalists demanded that the way should be made clear for their
							enterprise and the land hungry were clamoring for more farms. Indeed, before Congress
							could act, pioneers were swarming over the regions around the Indian lands. Farmers
							from the other northern states, Norwegians, Germans, and Canadians were planting their
							homesteads amid the fertile Dakota fields; the population of the territory jumped from
							14,181 in 1870 to 135,177 in 1880, and before the close of the next decade numbered
							more than half a million. It was evident that the region was destined to be
							principally agricultural in character, inhabited by thrifty farmers like those of Iowa
							and Nebraska. Pretensions to statehood therefore rose with the rising tide of
							population.
						Far over on the western coast, the claims of Washington to statehood were being
							urged. The population there had increased until it rivaled Oregon and passed the
							neighboring commonwealth in 1890. In addition to rich agricultural areas, it possessed
							enormous timber resources which were to afford the chief industry for a long time; and
							keen-sighted men foresaw a swift development of seaward trade. Between the Dakotas and
							Washington lay the narrow point of Idaho and the mountainous regions of Montana, now
							rapidly filling up with miners and capitalists exploiting the gold, silver, coal,
							copper, and other mineral resources, and rivaling the sheep and cattle kings in their
							contest for economic supremacy.
						After the fashion of enterprising westerners, the citizens of these territories began
							to boast early of their  "enormous" populations and their
							"abounding" wealth, and to clamor for admission as states. Finding their pleas falling
							upon unheeding ears, the people of the southern Dakota took matters into their own
							hands in 1885, called a convention, framed a constitution, and failing to secure the
							quick and favorable action of Congress threatened to come into the Union unasked.
							Sober counsels prevailed, however, and the impatient Dakotans were induced to wait
							awhile. Meantime the territory was divided into two parts in 1887, after a popular
							vote had been taken on the matter.
						As had been the case almost from the beginning of the Republic, the admission of
							these new states was a subject of political controversy and intrigue at the national
							capital. During Cleveland's first administration the House was Democratic and the
							Senate Republican. Believing that Dakota was firmly Republican, the Senate passed the
							measure admitting the southern region in 1886, but the Democratic House was unable to
							see eye to eye with the Senate on this matter. In the elections of i888, the
							Republicans carried the House, and it was evident that the new Congress would take
							some action with regard to the clamoring territories. Montana was probably Democratic,
							and Washington was uncertain. At all events the Democrats thought it wise to come to
							terms, and accordingly on February 22, 1889, the two Dakotas, Washington, and Montana
							were admitted simultaneously.
						With less claim to statehood than any commonwealths admitted up to that time, except
							Nevada, the two territories of Idaho and Wyoming were soon enabled,  by the assistance of the politicians, to secure admission
							to the Union. Republican politics and the "silver interests" were responsible for this
							step. Although neither territory had over 40,000 inhabitants in 1880, extravagant
							claims were made by the advocates of admission--claims speedily belied by the
							census of 1890, which gave Idaho 88,000 and Wyoming 62,000. At last in July, 1890,
							they were admitted to the Union, and. the territorial question was settled for a time,
							although Arizona and New Mexico felt that their claims were unjustly treated. It was
							not until seventeen years later that another new state, Oklahoma, modeled out of the
							old Indian Territory, was added to the Union. Finally, in 1912, the last of the
							continental territories, Arizona and New Mexico, were endowed with statehood.1
					
					
						The Economic Advance of the South
						Notwithstanding the prominence given to the negro question during and after
							Reconstruction, the South had other problems no less grave in character to meet.
							Industry and agriculture were paralyzed by the devastations of the War. A vast amount
							of material capital--railways, wharves, bridges, and factories--had been destroyed
							during the conflict; and fluid capital seeking investment had been almost destroyed as
							well. The rich with ready money at their command had risked nearly all their store in
							confederate securities or had lost 1 By an act passed in August, 1912, Congress provided a
								territorial legislature for Alaska, which had been governed up to that time by a
								governor appointed by the President and Senate, under acts of Congress.
							 their money loaned in other ways through the wreck of
							the currency. Plantations had depreciated in value, partly because of the destruction
							of equipment, but especially on account of the difficulties of working the system
							without slave labor. The South had, therefore, to rehabilitate the material equipment
							of industry and transportation and to put agriculture on another basis than that of
							slave labor. Surely this was a gigantic task.
						The difficulties of carrying forward the plantation system with free negro labor
							compelled the holders of large estates (many of which were heavily mortgaged) to adopt
							one of two systems: the leasing or renting of small plots to negroes or poor whites,
							or the outright sale in small quantities which could be worked by one or two hands.
							This disintegration of estates went forward with great rapidity. In 1860 the average
							holding of land in the southern states was 335.4 acres; in 1880 it had fallen to
							153.4; and in 1900 it had reached 138.2. The great handicap was the difficulty of
							securing the capital to develop the small farm, and no satisfactory system for dealing
							with this problem has yet been adopted.
						The very necessities of the South served to bind that section to the North in a new
							fashion. Fluid capital had to be secured, in part at least, from the North, and
							northern enterprise found a new outlet in the reconstruction of the old, and the
							development of the new, industries in the region of the former confederacy. The number
							of cotton spindles in the South increased from about 300,000 in 1860 to more than
							4,000,000 at the close of the century; the number of employees rose  from 10,000 to nearly 100,000; and the value of the output
							leaped from $8,460,337 annually to $95,002,059. This rapid growth was, in part, due to
							the abundance of water power in the hill regions, the cheap labor of women and
							children, the low cost of living, and the absence of labor laws interfering with the
							hours and conditions of work in the factories.
						Even in the iron and steel industry, West Virginia and Alabama began to press upon
							the markets of the North within less than twenty years after the close of the War. In
							1880, the latter state stood tenth among the pig-iron producing states; in 1890 it
							stood third. The southern states alone now produce more coal, iron ore, and pig iron
							than all of the states combined did in 1870. The census of 1909 reports 5685
							manufacturing establishments in Virginia, 4931 in North Carolina, 4792 in Georgia, and
							3398 in Alabama.
						The social effects which accompany capitalist development inevitably began to appear
							in the South. The industrial magnate began to contest with the old aristocracy of the
							soil for supremacy; many former slave owners and their descendants drifted into
							manufacturing and many poor whites made their way upward into wealth and influence.
							The census of 1909 reports more than thirty thousand proprietors and firm members in
							the South Atlantic states, an increase over the preceding report almost equal to that
							in the New England states. The same census reports in the southern states more than a
							million wage earners--equal to almost two thirds the entire number in the whole
							country at the opening of the Civil War. The percentage of increase  in the wage earners of the South Atlantic states between
							1904 and 1909 was greater than in New England or the Middle Atlantic states.
						With this swift economic development, northern capital streamed into the South;
							northern money was invested in southern public and industrial securities in enormous
							amounts; and energetic northern business men were to be found in southern market
							places vying with their no less enterprising southern brethren. The men concerned in
							creating this new nexus of interest between the two regions naturally deprecated the
							perpetual agitation of sectional issues by the politicians, and particularly northern
							interference in the negro question. Business interest began to pour cold water on the
							hottest embers which the Civil War had left behind.
					
				
				
				
					
					CHAPTER III
					
						THE REVOLUTION IN POLITICS AND LAW
						THE economic revolution that followed the War, the swift and
							potent upswing of capitalism, and the shifting of political power from the South to
							the North made their impress upon every branch of the Federal Government. Senators of
							the old school, Clay, Webster, Calhoun, Roger Baldwin, John P. Hale, James Mason, and
							Jefferson Davis were succeeded by the apostles of the new order: Roscoe Conkling and
							Thomas Platt, James Donald Cameron, Leland Stanford, George Hearst, Arthur P. Gorman,
							William D. Washburn, John R. McPherson, Henry B. Payne, Matthew S. Quay, Philetus
							Sawyer, John H. Mitchell, and James G. Blaine. The new Senate was composed of men of
							affairs--practical men, who organized gigantic enterprizes, secured possession
							of natural resources and franchises, collected and applied capital on a large scale to
							new business undertakings, built railways, established cities with the advancing line
							of the western frontier--or represented such men as counsel in the courts of law.
						Not many of them were great orators or widely known as profound students of politics
							in its historical and comparative aspects. A few, like Blaine, Hoar, and Conkling,
							studied the classic oratory of the older  generation and
							sought to apply to the controverted issues of the hour that studious, orderly, and
							sustained eloquence which had adorned the debates of earlier years; but the major
							portion cultivated only the arts of management and negotiation. Few of them seem to
							have given any thought to the lessons to be learned from European politics. On the
							contrary, they apparently joined with the multitude in the assumption that we had
							everything to teach Europe and nothing to learn. Bismarck was to them, if we may judge
							from their spoken words, simply a great politician and the hero of a war; the writings
							of German economists, Wagner and Schmoller, appear never to have penetrated their
							studies. That they foresaw in the seventies and eighties the turn that politics was
							destined to take is nowhere evident. They commanded respect and admiration for their
							practical achievements; but it is questionable whether the names of more than two or
							three will be known a century hence, save to the antiquarian.
						Of this group, Roscoe Conkling was undoubtedly typical, just as Marcus A. Hanna
							represented the dominant politicians of a later time. He was an able lawyer and an
							orator of some quality, but of no permanent fame. He took his seat in the Senate in
							1867 and according to his biographer "during the remainder of his life his legal
							practice was chiefly connected with corporations that were litigants in the district
							and circuit courts of the United States," 1--the judges of which courts he was, as Senator,
							instrumental in appointing. His practice was lucrative for his day, amounting to some
								1 A. R. Conkling, Life of Roscoe Conkling, p. 297.
							 $50,000 a year.1 He counted among his clients the first great capitalists
							of the country. When he was forced to retire from New York politics, "the first person
							who came to see him on business was Mr. Jay Gould, who waited upon him early one
							morning at his hotel." 2 He was
							counsel for Mr. Collis P. Huntington in his contest against the state legislation
							which railway interests deemed unjust and unconstitutional.3 He was among the keen group of legal thinkers
							who invoked and extended the principle of the Fourteenth Amendment to cover all the
							varieties of legislation affecting corporate interests adversely.4
						Criticism of the Republican party, and particularly of the policies for which he
							stood, Mr. Conkling regarded as little short of treason. For example, when Mr. George
							William Curtis, in the New York state convention of 1877, sought to endorse the
							administration of President Hayes, whose independence in office had been troublesome
							to Mr. Conkling, the latter returned in a passionate attack on the whole party of
							opposition: "Who are these men who in newspapers and elsewhere are 'cracking their
							whips' over Republicans and playing schoolmaster to the Republican party and its
							conscience and convictions? They are of various sorts and conditions. Some of them are
							the man-milliners, the dilettanti and carpet knights of politics, men whose efforts
							have been expended in denouncing and ridiculing and accusing honest men. . . . Some of
							these worthies masquerade as reformers and their vocation and ministry 1 A. R. Conkling, Life of Roscoe Conkling, p. 699.2Ibid., p. 671.
							3Ibid.,
								pp. 679 ff.
							4See below, p. 57.
							 is to lament the sins of other people. Their stock in
							trade is rancid, canting self-righteousness. They are wolves in sheep's clothing.
							Their real object is office and plunder. When Dr. Johnson defined patriotism as the
							last refuge of a scoundrel, he was then unconscious of the then undeveloped
							capabilities of the word 'reform.'" 1
						The political philosophy of this notable group of political leaders was that of their
							contemporaries in England, the Cobden-Bright school. They believed in the widest
							possible extension of the principle of private property, and the narrowest possible
							restriction of state interference, except to aid private property to increase its
							gains. They held that all of the natural resources of the country should be
							transferred to private hands as speedily as possible, at a nominal charge, or no
							charge at all, and developed with dashing rapidity. They also believed that the great
							intangible social property created by community life, such as franchises for street
							railways, gas, and electricity, should be transformed into private property. They
							supplemented their philosophy of property by a philosophy of law and politics, which
							looked upon state interference, except to preserve order, and aid railways and
							manufacturers in their enterprises, as an intrinsic evil to be resisted at every
							point, and they developed a system of jurisprudence which, as Senators having the
							confirming power in appointments and as counsel for corporations before the courts of
							the United States, they succeeded in transforming into judicial decisions. Some of
							them were doubtless corrupt, 1
								Ibid., p. 540.
							 as was constantly charged, but the real explanation of
							their resistance to government intervention is to be found in their philosophy, which,
							although consonant with their private interests, they identified with public good.
					
					
						Writing Laissez Faire into the Constitution
						Inasmuch as the attacks on private rights in property, franchises, and corporate
							privileges came principally from the state legislatures, it was necessary to find some
							way to subject them to legal control--some juristic process for translating laissez faire into a real restraining force. These leading statesmen
							and lawyers were not long in finding the way. The Federal courts were obviously the
							proper instrumentalities, and the broad restrictions laid upon the states by the
							Fourteenth Amendment no less obviously afforded the constitutional foundation for the
							science of legislative nihilism. "No state," ran the significant words of that
							Amendment, "shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
							immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive any person of
							life, liberty, or property without due process of law; nor deny to any person within
							its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
						What unseen implications lay within these phrases the most penetrating thinkers
							divined at once. Protest was made by the New Jersey legislature against the Fourteenth
							Amendment in 1866 on the ground that it would destroy all the essential rights of a
							state to control  its internal affairs; and such opinion
							was widespread. But the most common view was to the effect that the Amendment would be
							used principally to surround the newly emancipated slaves with safeguards against
							their former masters who might be tempted to restore serfdom under apprentice and
							penal laws and other legal guises. Still there is plenty of evidence to show that
							those who framed the Fourteenth Amendment and pushed it through Congress had in mind a
							far wider purpose--that of providing a general restraining clause for state
							legislatures.
						The problem of how best to check the assaults of state legislatures on vested rights
							was not new when the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted. On the contrary, it was one of
							the first concerns of the Convention of 1787 which drafted the original Constitution
							of the United States, and it was thought by the framers that security had been
							attained by forbidding states to emit bills of credit and make laws impairing the
							obligation of contract. Under Chief Justice Marshall, these clauses were so generously
							interpreted as to repel almost any attack which a state legislature might make on
							acquired rights. However, in the closing years of Marshall's service, the Supreme
							Court, then passing into the hands of states' rights justices, rendered an opinion in
							the case of Ogden v. Saunders, which clearly held that the contract
							clause did not prevent the legislature from stipulating that future
							contracts might be practically at its mercy. When a legislature provides by general
							law that all charters of corporations are subject to repeal and alteration, such
							provision becomes a part of all new  contracts. Marshall
							delivered in this case a vigorous and cogent dissenting opinion in which he pointed
							out that the decision had in effect destroyed the virtue of the obligation of contract
							clause.
						The case of Ogden v. Saunders was decided in 1827. Between that
							year and the Civil War the beginnings of corporate enterprise were securely laid in
							the United States; and the legislatures of the several states began the regulation of
							corporations from one motive or another, sometimes for the purpose of blackmailing
							them and sometimes for the laudable purpose of protecting public interests. At all
							events, large propertied concerns began to feel that they could not have a free hand
							in developing their enterprises or enjoy any genuine security unless the legislatures
							of the states were, by some constitutional provision, brought again under strict
							Federal judicial control.
						The opportunity to secure this judicial control was afforded during the Civil War
							when the radical Republicans were demanding Federal protection for the newly
							emancipated slaves of the South. The drastic legislation relative to negroes adopted
							by the southern states at the close of the War showed that even in spite of the
							Thirteenth Amendment a substantial bondage could be reestablished under the color of
							criminal, apprentice, and vagrant legislation. The friends of the negroes, therefore,
							determined to put the substantial rights of life, liberty, and property beyond the
							interference of state legislatures forever, and secure to all persons the equal
							protection of the law.
						Accordingly, the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted, 
							enunciating the broad legal and political doctrine that no state "shall abridge the
							privileges or immunity of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive
							any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law;
							nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
							of the law."
						Here was a restriction laid upon state legislatures which might be substantially
							limitless in its application, in the hands of a judiciary wishing to place the
							broadest possible interpretation upon it. What are privileges and immunities? What are
							life, liberty, and property? What is due process of law? What is the equal protection
							of the law? Does the term "person" include not only natural persons but also
							artificial persons, namely, corporations? That the reconstruction committee of
							Congress which framed the instrument intended to include within the scope of this
							generous provision not only the negro struggling upward from bondage, but also
							corporations and business interests struggling for emancipation from legislative
							interference, has been often asserted. In arguing before the Supreme Court in the San
							Matteo County case, on December 19, 1882, Mr. Roscoe Conkling, who had been a member
							of the committee which drafted the Fourteenth Amendment, unfolded for the first time
							the deep purpose of the committee, and showed from the journal of that committee that
							it was not their intention to confine the amendment merely to the protection of the
							colored race. In the course of his argument, Mr. Conkling remarked, "At the time the
							Fourteenth Amendment was ratified, as the records of the two Houses will show,
							individuals  and joint-stock companies were appealing for
							congressional and administrative protection against invidious and discriminating state
							and local taxes. One instance was that of an express company, whose stock was owned
							largely by citizens of the State of New York, who came with petitions and bills
							seeking Acts of Congress to aid them in resisting what they deemed oppressive taxation
							in two states, and oppressive and ruinous rules of damages applied under state laws.
							That complaints of oppression in respect of property and other rights, made by
							citizens of Northern States who took up residence in the South, were rife, in and out
							of Congress, none of us can forget; that complaints of oppression in various forms, of
							white men in the South,--of 'Union men,'--were heard on every side, I need not remind
							the Court. The war and its results, the condition of the freedmen, and the manifest
							duty owed to them, no doubt brought on the occasion for constitutional amendment; but
							when the occasion came and men set themselves to the task, the accumulated evils
							falling within the purview of the work were the surrounding circumstances, in the
							light of which they strove to increase and strengthen the safeguards of the
							Constitution and laws." 1
						In spite of important testimony to the effect that those who drafted the Fourteenth
							Amendment really intended "to nationalize liberty," that is laissez
								faire, 1 Taylor,
									Origin and Growth of the American Constitution, p. 355. As a
								matter of fact, Conkling, who was a member of the committee that drafted the
								Fourteenth Amendment, voted against these provisions in Committee.
							 against state legislatures, the Supreme Court at first
							refused to accept this broad interpretation, and it was not until after several of the
							judges of the old states' rights school had been replaced by judges of the new school
							that the claims of Mr. Conkling's group as to the Fourteenth Amendment were embodied
							in copious judicial decisions.
					
					
						The Slaughter-House Cases
						The first judicial interpretation of the significant phrases of the Fourteenth
							Amendment which were afterward to be the basis of judicial control over state economic
							legislation of every kind was made by the Supreme Court in the Slaughter-House cases
							in 1873--five years after that Amendment had been formally ratified. These particular
							cases, it is interesting to note, like practically all other important cases arising
							under the Fourteenth Amendment, had no relation whatever to the newly emancipated
							slaves; but, on the contrary, dealt with the regulation of business enterprises.
						In 1869, the legislature of Louisiana passed an act designed to protect the health of
							the people of New Orleans and certain other parishes. This act created a corporation
							for the purpose of slaughtering animals within that city, forbade the establishment of
							any other slaughterhouses or abattoirs within the municipality, and conferred the sole
							and exclusive privilege of conducting the live-stock landing and slaughterhouse
							business, under the limitations of the act, upon the company thus  created. The company, however, was required by the law to permit any
							persons who wished to do so to slaughter in its houses and to make full provision for
							all such slaughtering at a reasonable compensation. This drastic measure, the report
							of the case states, was denounced "not only as creating a monopoly and conferring
							odious and exclusive privileges upon a small number of persons at the expense of the
							great body of the community of New Orleans, but . . . it deprives a large and
							meritorious class of citizens--the whole of the butchers of the city--of the right to
							exercise their trade, the business to which they have been trained and on which they
							depend for the support of themselves and their families."
						The opinion of the court was rendered by Mr. Justice Miller. The Justice opened by
							making a few remarks upon the "police power," in the course of which he said that the
							regulation of slaughtering fell within the borders of that mysterious domain and
							without doubt constituted one of the powers enjoyed by all states previous to the
							adoption of the Civil War amendments. After commenting upon the great responsibility
							devolved upon the Court in construing the Thirteenth and Fourteenth amendments and
							remarking on the careful deliberation with which the judges had arrived at their
							conclusions, Justice Miller then turned to an examination of the historical purpose
							which underlay the adoption of the amendments in question. After his recapitulation of
							recent events, he concluded: "On the most casual examination of the language of these
							amendments, no one can fail to be impressed with the one pervading purpose  found in them all, lying at the foundation of each, and
							without which none of them would have been even suggested; we mean the freedom of the
							slave race, the security and firm establishment of that freedom, and the protection of
							the newly-made freeman and citizen from the oppression of those who had formerly
							exercised unlimited dominion over him. It is true that only the Fifteenth Amendment,
							in terms, mentions the negro by speaking of his color and his slavery. But it is just
							as true that each of the other articles was addressed to the grievances of that race
							and designed to remedy them as the Fifteenth. (We do not say that no one else but the
							negro can share in this protection.) Both the language and spirit of these articles
							are to have their fair and just weight in any question of construction. . . . What we
							do wish to say and what we wish to be understood as saying is, that in any fair and
							just construction of any section or phrase of these amendments, it is necessary to
							look to the purpose, which as we have said was the pervading spirit of them all, the
							evil which they were designed to remedy, and the process of continued addition to the
							Constitution until that purpose was supposed to be accomplished as far as
							constitutional law can accomplish it."
						Justice Miller dismissed with a tone of impatience the idea of the counsel for the
							plaintiffs in error that the Louisiana statute in question imposed an "involuntary
							servitude" forbidden by the Thirteenth Amendment. "To withdraw the mind," he said,
							"from the contemplation of this grand yet simple declaration of the personal freedom
							of all the human race within the  jurisdiction of this
							government--a declaration designed to establish the freedom of four million
							slaves--and with a microscopic search endeavor to find it in reference to servitudes
							which may have been attached to property in certain localities, requires an effort, to
							say the least of it."
						In Justice Miller's long opinion there is no hint of that larger and more
							comprehensive purpose entertained by the framers of the Fourteenth Amendment which was
							asserted by Mr. Conkling a few years later in his argument before the Supreme Court.
							If he was aware that the framers had in mind not only the protection of the freedmen
							in their newly won rights, but also the defense of corporations and business
							enterprises generally against state legislation, he gave no indication of the fact.
							There is nowhere in his opinion any sign that he saw the broad economic implications
							of the Amendment which he was expounding for the first time in the name of the Court.
							On the contrary, his language and the opinion reached in the case show that the judges
							were either not cognizant of the new economic and political duty placed upon them, or,
							in memory of the states' rights traditions which they had entertained, were unwilling
							to apply the Thirteenth and Fourteenth amendments in such a manner as narrowly to
							restrict the legislative power of a commonwealth.
						In taking up that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which provides that no state
							shall make or enforce any law abridging the privileges or immunities of citizens of
							the United States, Justice Miller declared that it was not the purpose of that
							provision to transfer the security and protection of all fundamental civil rights  from the state government to the Federal Government. A
							citizen of the United States as such, he said, has certain privileges and immunities,
							and it was these and these only which the Fourteenth Amendment
							contemplated. He enumerated some of them: the right of the citizen to come to the seat
							of government, to assert any claim he may have upon that government, to transact any
							business he may have with it, to seek its protection, share its offices, engage in
							administering its functions, to have free access to its seaports, subtreasuries, land
							offices, and courts of justice, to use the navigable waters of the United States, to
							assemble peaceably with his fellow citizens and petition for redress of grievances,
							and to enjoy the privileges of the writ of habeas corpus. It was rights of this
							character, the learned justice argued, and not all the fundamental rights of person
							and property which had been acquired in the evolution of Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence,
							that were placed by the Fourteenth Amendment under the protection of the Federal
							Government.
						Within this view, all the ordinary civil rights enjoyed by citizens were still within
							the control of the organs of the state government and not within Federal protection at
							all. If the privileges and immunities, brought within the protection of the Federal
							Government by the Fourteenth Amendment, were intended to embrace the whole domain of
							personal and property rights, then, contended the justice, the Supreme Court would be
							constituted "a perpetual censor upon all legislation of the states, on the civil
							rights of their own citizens, with authority to nullify such as it did not approve as
							consistent with  those rights as they existed at the time
							of the adoption of this Amendment. . . . We are convinced that no such results were
							intended by the Congress which proposed these amendments nor by the legislatures
							which ratified them."
						In two short paragraphs, Justice Miller disposed of the contention of the plaintiffs
							in error to the effect that the Louisiana statute deprived the plaintiffs of their
							property without due process of law. He remarked that inasmuch as the phraseology of
							this clause was also to be found in the Fifth Amendment and in some form in the
							constitutions of nearly all of the states, it had received satisfactory judicial
							interpretation; "and it is sufficient to say," he concluded on this point, "that under
							no construction of that provision that we have ever seen or any that we deem
							admissible, can the restraint imposed by the state of Louisiana upon the exercise
							of their trade by the butchers of New Orleans be held to be a deprivation of private
							property within the meaning of that provision."
						Coming now to that clause requiring every state to give all persons within its
							jurisdiction equal protection of the laws, Justice Miller indulged in the false
							prophecy : "We doubt very much whether any action of a state not directed by way of
							discrimination against the negroes. as a class or on account of their race will ever
							be held to come within the purview of this provision." An emergency might arise, he
							admitted, but he found no such a one in the case before him.
						Concluding his opinion, he expressed the view that the American Federal system had
							come out of the Civil  War with its main features
							unchanged, and that it was the duty of the Supreme Court then as always to hold with a
							steady and an even hand the balance between state and Federal power. "Under the
							pressure of all the excited feeling growing out of the War," he remarked, "our
							statesmen have still believed that the existence of the states with powers for
							domestic and local government, including the regulation of civil rights--the rights of
							person and property--was essential to the perfect working of our complex form of
							government, though they have thought proper to impose additional limitations upon the
							states and to confer additional power on that of the nation."
						Under this strict interpretation of the Thirteenth and Fourteenth amendments, all the
							fundamental rights of persons and property remained subject to the state governments
							substantially in the same way as before the Civil War. The Supreme Court thus could
							not become the final arbiter and control the social and economic legislation of states
							at every point. Those champions of the amendments who looked to them to establish
							Federal judicial supremacy for the defense of corporations and business enterprises
							everywhere throughout the American empire were sadly disappointed.
						Nowhere was that disappointment more effectively and more cogently stated than in the
							opinions of the judges who dissented from the doctrines announced by the majority of
							the court. Chief Justice Chase and Justices Field, Bradley, and Swayne refused to
							accept the interpretation and the conclusions reached by the majority, and the last
							three judges wrote separate  opinions of their own
							expressing their grounds for dissenting. The first of these, Justice Field, contended
							that the Louisiana statute in question could not legitimately come under the police
							power and was in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, inasmuch as it denied to
							citizens of the United States the fundamental rights which belonged to citizens of all
							free governments--protection against monopolies and equality of rights in the pursuit
							of the ordinary avocations of life. In his opinion, the privileges and immunities put
							under the supervision of the Federal Government by the Fourteenth Amendment comprised
							generally "protection by the government, the enjoyment of life and liberty, with the
							right to acquire and possess property of every kind, and to pursue and obtain
							happiness and safety, subject, nevertheless, to such restraint as the government may
							justly prescribe for the general good of the whole." In other words, Justice Field
							would have carried the Amendment beyond the specific enumeration of any definitely
							ascertained legal rights into the field of moral law, which, in final analysis, would
							have meant the subjection of the state legislation solely to the discretion of the
							judicial conscience. The future, as we shall see, was with Justice Field.
						In the opinion of Justice Bradley, the Louisiana statute not only deprived persons of
							the equal protection of the laws, but also of liberty and property--the right of
							choosing, in the adoption of lawful employments, being a portion of their liberty, and
							their occupation being their property. In the opinion of Mr. Justice Swayne, who
							dissented also, the word liberty as used in  the
							Fourteenth Amendment embodied freedom from all restraints except such as were "justly"
							imposed by law. In his view, property included everything that had an exchange value,
							including labor, and the right to make property available was next in importance to
							the rights of life and liberty.
					
					
						The Granger Cases
						Three years after the decision in the Slaughter-House cases, the Supreme Court again
							refused to interpret the Fourteenth Amendment so broadly as to hold unconstitutional a
							state statute regulating business undertakings. This case, Munn v.
							Illinois, decided in 1876, involved the validity of a statute passed under the
							constitution of that state, which declared all elevators where grain was stored to be
							public warehouses and subjected them to strict regulation, including the establishment
							of fixed maximum charges. It was contended by the plaintiffs in error, Munn and Scott,
							that the statute violated the Fourteenth Amendment in two respects: (I) that the
							business attempted to be regulated was not a public calling and was, therefore,
							totally outside of the regulatory or police power of the state; and (2) that even if
							the business was conceded to be public in character, and therefore by the rule of the
							common law was permitted to exact only "reasonable" charges for its services,
							nevertheless the determination of what was reasonable belonged to the judicial branch
							of the government and could not be made by the legislature without violating the
							principle of "due process."


						
						Both of these contentions were rejected by the Court, and the constitutionality of
							the Illinois statute was upheld. The opinion of the Court was written by Chief Justice
							Waite, who undertook an elaborate examination of the "due process" clause of the
							Fourteenth Amendment. The principle of this Amendment, he said, though new in the
							Constitution of the United States, is as old as civilized government itself; it is
							found in Magna Carta in substance if not in form, in nearly all of the state
							constitutions, and in the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. In order to
							ascertain, therefore, what power legislatures enjoyed under the new amendment, it was
							only necessary to inquire into the limitations which had been historically imposed
							under the due process clause in England and the United States; and after an
							examination of some cases in point the Chief Justice came to the conclusion that "down
							to the time of the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment it was not supposed that
							statutes regulating the use or even the price of the use of private property
							necessarily deprived an owner of his property without due process of law." When
							private property "is affected with public interest" and is used in a manner to make it
							of public consequence, the public is in fact granted an interest in that use, and the
							owner of the property in question "must submit to be controlled by the public for the
							common good, to the extent of the interest he has thus created."
						But it was insisted on behalf of the plaintiffs that the owner of property is
							entitled to a reasonable compensation for its use even when it is clothed with the
							public interest, and that the determination of what is reasonable  is a judicial, not a legislative, matter. To this Chief
							Justice Waite replied that the usual practice had been otherwise. "In countries where
							the common law prevails," he said, "it has been customary from time immemorial for the
							legislature to declare what shall be a reasonable compensation under such
							circumstances, or perhaps more properly speaking to fix a maximum beyond which any
							charge made would be unreasonable. . . . The controlling fact is the power to regulate
							at all. If that exists, the right to establish the maximum of charge as one of the
							means of regulation is implied. In fact, the common law rule which requires the charge
							to be reasonable is itself a regulation as to price . . . To limit the rate of charge
							for services rendered in a public employment, or for the use of property in which the
							public has an interest, is only changing a regulation which existed before. It
							establishes no new principle in the law, but only gives a new effect to an old one. We
							know that this is a power which may be abused; but that is no argument against its
							existence. For protection against abuses by legislatures the people must
								resort to the polls, not to the courts." 1
						1 It is to be noted that
								the demand of the warehousemen on the second point was not for a judicial review of the reasonableness of a rate fixed by the legislature, but
								a total denial of the power of a legislature to act in the matter. The question of the propriety of a
								judicial review of the reasonableness of the rates in question was not raised in the
								pleadings. It was not difficult, therefore, for judges in subsequent cases in which
								the question of judicial review was squarely raised to explain away as mere dictum this solemn statement by Chief Justice Waite to the effect
								that the power of the legislature to regulate being conceded, the determination of
								the legislature was binding on the courts and not subject to review.


						
						The principle involved in the Munn case also came up in the same year (1876) in Peik
								v. Chicago and Northwestern Railroad Company, in which Chief
							Justice Waite, speaking of an act of Wisconsin limiting passenger and freight charges
							on railroads in the state, said: "As to the claim that the courts must decide what is
							reasonable and not the legislature, this is not new to this case. It has been fully
							considered in Munn v. Illinois. Where property has been clothed with
							a public interest, the legislature may fix a limit to that which shall be in law
							reasonable for its use. This limit binds the courts as well as the people. If it has
							been improperly fixed, the legislature, not the courts, must be appealed to for the
							change."
						The total results of the several Granger cases, decided in 1876, may be summed up as
							follows:That the regulatory power of the state over "public callings" is not
							limited to those businesses over which it was exercised at common law, but extends. to
							any business in which, because of its necessary character and the possibilities for
							extortion afforded by monopolistic control;-the public has an interest.That
							such regulatory power will not be presumed to have been contracted away by any
							legislature, unless such intention is unequivocally expressed.That the exercise
								of such regulatory power belongs to the legislature, and not to the judiciary.And
							the dictum that the judiciary can grant no relief from an unjust
								exercise of this regulatory power by the legislature.  Although the denial of the right
							of the judiciary to  review the "reasonableness" of a
							rate fixed by the legislature in the Granger cases had been dictum,
							a case was not long arising in which the issue was squarely raised. Had this case gone
							to the Supreme Court, the question of judicial review would have been decided a full
							decade or more before it really was. In this case, the Tilley case, a bondholder of a
							railroad operating in Georgia sought to restrain the railroad from putting into force
							a tariff fixed by the state railroad commission, on the ground that it was so
							unreasonably low as to be confiscatory. Judge Woods, of the Federal circuit court,
							refused to grant the injunction, basing his decision squarely upon the dictum in Munn
								v. Illinois, and declaring that the railroad must seek relief from
							unjust action on the part of the commission at the hands of the legislature or of the
							people.
						It was not till seven years after the Granger cases that another case involving rate
							regulation was presented to the Federal courts.1 The Ruggles case, brought to the Supreme Court by writ of
							error to the supreme court of Illinois, in 1883, involved a conviction of one of the
							agents of the Illinois Central Railway for violating a maximum passenger fare statute
							of that state, and raised substantially the same question as all of the Granger cases
							except the Munn case--the right of the legislature to regulate the rates of a railroad
							which was itself empowered by its charter to fix its own rates. The Court affirmed the
							doctrine of the Granger cases, Chief Justice Waite again writing the opinion. The case
							is noteworthy only for the opinion of Justice Harlan, 1 Except for two unimportant cases decided in
								the lower courts.
							 concurring in the judgment, but dissenting from the
							opinion, of the Court, in so far as that opinion expressed, as he declared, the
							doctrine that the legislature of Illinois could regulate the rates of the railway
							concerned, in any manner it saw fit. Justice Harlan argued that inasmuch as the
							charter of the railroad had conferred upon it the right to demand "reasonable"
							charges, the legislature, when it resumed the power of fixing charges, was estopped
							from fixing less than "reasonable" charges; and should charges lower than "reasonable"
							be fixed, it would be within the province of the judicial branch to give relief
							against such an impairment of the obligation of contract.
						Justice Harlan's opinion is interesting not only because it touches upon the
							possibility of a judicial review of the rate fixed by the
							legislature; but because the learned Justice bases his contention on the contract between the railroad and the state to the effect that rates should be
							"reasonable." This indicates plainly that not even in the mind of Justice Harlan, who
							later became the firm exponent of the power of judicial review, was there any clear
							belief that the Fourteenth Amendment as such gave the Court any power to review the
							"reasonableness" of a rate fixed by the legislature. In other words, he derived his
							doctrine of judicial review from the power of the Federal judiciary to enforce the
							obligation of contracts, and not from its power to compel "due process of law."
						It is impossible to trace here the numerous decisions following the Ruggles case in
							which the Supreme Court was called upon to consider the power of state  legislatures to control and regulate corporations,
							particularly railways. It is impossible also to follow out all of the fine and subtle
							distinctions by which the dictum of Chief Justice Waite, in the Munn
							case, to the effect that private parties must appeal to the people, and not to the
							courts, for protection against state legislatures, was supplanted by the firm
							interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment in such a manner as to confer upon the
							courts the final power to review all state legislation regulating the use of property
							and labor. Of course we do not have, in fact, this clear-cut reversal of opinion by
							the Court, but rather a slow working out of the doctrine of judicial review as opposed
							to an implication that the Court could not grant to corporations the relief from
							legislative interference which they sought. There are but few clear-cut reversals in
							law; but the political effect of the Court's decisions has been none the less clear
							and positive.
					
					
						The Minnesota Rate Case
						It seems desirable, however, to indicate some of the leading steps by which the Court
							moved from the doctrine of non-interference with state legislatures to the doctrine
							that it is charged with the high duty of reviewing all and every kind of economic
							legislation by the states. One of the leading cases in this momentous transition is
							that of the Chicago, Milwaukee, and St. Paul Railway Company v.
							Minnesota, decided in 1889, which made a heavy contribution to the doctrine of
							judicial review of questions of political economy as well as law.  This case involved the validity of a Minnesota law which conferred upon a
							state railway commission the power to fix "reasonable" rates. The commission, acting
							under this authority, had fixed a rate on the transportation of milk between two
							points.
						The railroad having refused to put the rate into effect, the commission applied to
							the supreme court of the state for a writ of mandamus. In its answer the railroad
							claimed, among other contentions, that the rate fixed was unreasonably low. The
							supreme court of the state refused to listen to this contention, saying that the
							statute by its terms made the order of the commission conclusively reasonable;
							accordingly it issued the mandamus. By writ of error, the case was brought to the
							Supreme Court of the United States, which, by a vote of six to three, ordered the
							decree of the state court vacated, on the ground that the statute as construed by the
							supreme court of the state was unconstitutional, as a deprivation of property without
							due process of law.
						The opinion of the Court, written by Justice Blatchford, has frequently been
							interpreted to hold, and was indeed interpreted by the dissenting minority to hold,
							that the judiciary must, to satisfy the requirements of "due process," have the power
							of final review over the reasonableness of all rates, however fixed. It is doubtful
							whether the language of the opinion sustains this reading; but the strong emphasis on
							the place of the judiciary in determining the reasonableness of rates lent color to
							the contention that Mr. Justice Blatchford was setting up "judicial supremacy." In the
							course of his opinion,  he said: "The question of the
							reasonableness of a rate of charge for transportation by a railroad company, involving
							as it does the element of reasonableness both as regards the company and as regards
							the public, is eminently a question for judicial investigation requiring due process
							of law for its determination. If the company is deprived of the power of charging
							reasonable rates for the use of its property, and such deprivation takes place in the
							absence of an investigation by judicial machinery, it is deprived of the lawful use of
							its property, and thus in substance and effect, of the property itself without due
							process of law and in violation of the Constitution of the United States."
						The dissenting members of the Court in this case certainly saw in Justice
							Blatchford's opinion an assertion of the doctrine that whatever the nature of the
							commission established by law or the form of procedure adopted, the determination of
							rates was subject to review by a strictly judicial tribunal. In his dissent, Mr.
							Justice Bradley declared that the decision had practically overruled Munn v. Illinois and the other Granger cases. "The governing principle of those
							cases," he said, "was that the regulation and settlement of the affairs of railways
							and other public accommodations is a legislative prerogative and not a judicial one.
							... The legislature has the right, and it is its prerogative, if it chooses to
							exercise it, to declare what is reasonable. This is just where I differ from the
							majority of the Court. They say in effect, if not in terms, that the final tribunal of
							arbitrament is the judiciary; I say it is the legislature. I hold that it is a
							legislative question, not a judicial one,  unless the
							legislature or the law (which is the same thing) has made it judicial by prescribing
							the rule that the charges shall be reasonable and leaving it there. It is always a
							delicate thing for the courts to make an issue with the legislative department of the
							government, and they should never do it, if it is possible to avoid it. By the
							decision now made we declare, in effect, that the judiciary, and not the legislature,
							is the final arbiter in the regulation of fares and freights of railroads and the
							charges of other public accommodations. It is an assumption of authority on the part
							of the judiciary which, it seems to me, with a due reverence to the judgment of my
							brethren, it has no right to make. . . . Deprivation of property by mere arbitrary
							power on the part of the legislature or fraud on the part of the commission are the
							only grounds on which judicial relief may be sought against their action. There was in
							truth no deprivation of property in these cases at all. . . . It may be that our
							legislatures are invested with too much power, open as they are to influences so
							dangerous to the interests of individuals, corporations, and societies. But such is
							the Constitution of our republican form of government, and we are bound to abide by it
							until it can be corrected in a legitimate way."
					
					
						The Development of Judicial Review
						A further step toward judicial review even still more significant was taken, in the
							case of Reagan v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, decided by the
							Supreme Court in 1894. This case came up from the Federal circuit  court of Texas which had enjoined the state railway commissioners from
							fixing and putting into effect railway rates which the Trust Company, as a bondholder
							and interested party, contended were too low, although not confiscatory.
						The opinion of the Court, written by Justice Brewer, who, as Federal circuit judge,
							had already taken advanced ground in favor of judicial review, went the whole length
							in upholding the right of the judiciary to review the reasonableness, not only of a
							rate fixed by a commission, as in the case in hand, but even of one fixed by the
							legislature. The case differed in no essential way, declared the justice, from those
							cases in which it had been the age-long practice of the judiciary to act as final
							arbiters of reasonableness--cases in which a charge exacted by a common carrier was
							attacked by a shipper or passenger as unreasonable. The difference between the two
							cases was merely that in the one the rate alleged to be unreasonable was fixed by the
							carrier; in the other it was fixed by the commission or by the legislature. In support
							of this remarkable bit of legal reasoning, the opinion adduced as precedents merely a
							few brief excerpts, from previous decisions of the Court, nearly all of which were
							pure dicta.
						The absence of any dissent from this opinion, in spite of the fact that Judge Gray,
							who had concurred in Justice Bradley's vigorous dissenting opinion in the Chicago-
							Minnesota case four years before, was still on the bench, indicates that the last
							lingering opposition to the doctrine of judicial review in the minds of any of
							the Court had been dissolved. Henceforth it was but the emphatic  affirmation and consistent development of that doctrine that was to be
							expected.
						If we leave out of account Mr. Justice Brewer's dicta and consider
							the Court to have decided merely the issues squarely presented, the Reagan case left
							much to be done before the doctrine of judicial review could be regarded as
							established beyond all possibility of limitation and serious qualification. Other
							cases on the point followed quickly, but it was not until the celebrated case of Smyth
								v. Ames, decided in 1898, that the two leading issues were fairly
							presented and settled. In this case the rate attacked was not fixed by a commission,
							but by a state legislature itself; and the rate was not admitted by the counsel for
							the state to be unreasonable, but was strongly defended as wholly reasonable and just.
							The Court had to meet the issues.
						The original action in the case of Smyth v. Ames was a bill in
							equity brought against the attorney-general and the Nebraska state board of
							transportation, in the Federal circuit court, by certain bondholders of the railroads
							affected, to restrain the enforcement of the statute of that state providing a
							comprehensive schedule of freight rates. The bills alleged, and attempted to
							demonstrate by elaborate calculations, that the rates fixed were confiscatory, inasmuch as a proportionate reduction on all the rates of the
							railroads affected by them would so reduce the income of the companies as to make
							it impossible for them to pay any dividends; and in the case of some of them, even to
							meet all their bonded obligations. On behalf of the state, it was urged that the
							reduction in rates would increase business, and, therefore, increase  net earnings, and that some at least of the companies were
							bonded far in excess of their actual value. Supreme Court Justice Brewer, sitting in
							circuit, on the basis of the evidence submitted to him, consisting mainly of
							statements of operating expenses, gross receipts, and inter- and intra-state tonnage,
							found the contention of the railroads well taken, and issued the injunctions applied
							for.
						The opinion of the Supreme Court, affirming the decree of Judge Brewer, was, in the
							essential part of it--that asserting the principle of judicial review in its broadest
							terms--singularly brief. Contenting himself with citing a few short dicta from previous decisions, Justice Harlan, speaking for the Court,
							declared that the principle "must be regarded as settled" that the reasonableness of a
							rate could not be so conclusively determined by a legislature as to escape review by
							the judiciary. Equally well settled, it was declared, was the principle that property
							affected with a public interest was entitled to a "fair return" on its " fair"
							valuation. These prin principles regarded as established, the Court proceeded to
							examine the evidence, although it admitted that it lacked the technical knowledge
							necessary to a completely equitable decision; and sustained the finding of the lower
							court in favor of the railroads. There was no dissent.
						With Smyth v. Ames the doctrine of judicial review may be regarded
							as fully established. No portion of the judicial prerogative could now be surrendered
							without not merely "distinguishing" but flatly overruling a unanimous decision of the
							Court.


						
						The significance of Smyth v. Ames was soon observable in the
							activities of the lower Federal courts. Within the nine months of 1898 that followed
							that decision, there were at least four applications for injunctions against alleged
							unreasonable rates, and in three of these cases the applications were granted. During
							the years that followed Smyth v. Ames, Federal courts all over the
							country were tying the hands of state officers who attempted to put into effect
							legislative measures regulating railway concerns. In Arkansas, Florida, Alabama,
							Minnesota, Missouri, Illinois, North Carolina, Louisiana, and Oregon, rates fixed by
							statute, commission, or ordinance were attacked by the railways in the Federal courts
							and their enforcement blocked. In several instances the injunctions of the lower
							courts were made permanent, and no appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the
							United States. With Smyth v. Ames staring them in the face, state
							attorneys accepted the inevitable.
						The decision in Smyth v. Ames left still one matter in doubt. The
							allegation of the railroads in that case had been that the rates fixed were actually
							confiscatory--that is, so low as to make dividends impossible. In the course of his
							opinion, Justice Harlan had stated, however, that the railroads were entitled to a
							"fair return," an opinion that had been expressed also in the Reagan case, where
							indeed it had been necessary to the decision, and still earlier, but with little
							relevancy, in the Chicago-Minnesota case. In none of these cases, however, had any
							precise definition of the terms "reasonable" or "fair" return been necessary, and none
							had been made.
						The first direct suggestion of the development of the 
							judicial reasoning on this point that was to take place is found in the Milwaukee
							Electric Railway case, also decided in 1898. In that case Judge Seaman, of the Federal
							circuit court, found from the evidence that the dividends of the street railway
							company for several years past had been from 3.3 to 4.5 per cent, while its bonds bore
							interest at 5 per cent. Anything less than these returns, the judge declared, would be
							unreasonable, inasmuch as money loaned on real estate, secured by a first mortgage,
							was at that time commanding 6 per cent in Milwaukee.
						Eleven years later, in 1909, the Supreme Court sustained virtually the same rule
							in the New York Consolidated Gas case, holding, with the lower court, that the company
							was entitled to six per cent return on a fair value of its property
							(including franchises and the high values of the real estate used by it in the
							business), because six per cent was the "customary" rate of interest at that time in
							New York City. On the same day the court decided that a return of six per cent on
							waterworks property in Knoxville, Tennessee, was also not unreasonable. In neither of
							these cases, however, did the Court attempt any examination or explanation of the
							evidence on which it rested its determination that six per cent was the "customary"
							rate in the places named; nor did it attempt to explain the principle on which such
							"customary" rate could be determined for other times and places. Plainly there is
							still room for a great deal of "distinguishing" on this point. The extreme vagueness
							of the rule was exemplified by the decision of Federal circuit Judge Sanborn in the
							Shephard case (1912), in which he  decided that, for a
							railroad running through Minnesota, seven per cent was no more than
							a "fair" return, and that any reduction in rates which would diminish the profits of
							the road below that figure was unreasonable.
						Equally important and of as great difficulty are the questions entering into the
							determination of a "fair" valuation. This point is both too unsettled and too
							technical to render any discussion of it profitable here. Attention may, however, be
							called to two of the holdings in the Consolidated Gas case. In arriving at a "fair"
							valuation of the gas company's property, the Court allowed a large valuation to be
							placed upon the franchises of the company--none of which had been paid for by the
							companies to which they had originally been issued, and which had not been paid for by
							the Consolidated Company when it took them over, except in the sense that a large
							amount of stock, more than one sixth of the total stock issued by the company, had
							been issued against them, when the consolidation was formed. The particular facts
							surrounding this case are such as to make it very easy for the Court to "distinguish"
							this case from the usual one, for the consolidation was formed, and its stock
							issued, under a statute that authorized the formation of consolidations, and forbade
							such consolidations to issue stock in excess of the fair value of the "property,
							franchises, and rights" of the constituent companies. This last prohibition the Court
							construed as indicative of the legislative intention that the franchises should be
							capitalized. Equally plain is it, however, that this particular circumstance of the
							Consolidated Gas case is so irrelevant that it will 
							offer no obstacle whatever to the Court's quoting that case as a precedent for the
							valuation of franchises obtained gratis, should it so desire.
						Another holding of great importance in the Gas case was that the company was entitled
							to a fair return on the value of real estate used in the business, that value having
							appreciated very greatly since the original purchase of the real estate, and there
							being no evidence to show that real estate of so great value was essential to the
							conduct of the business.
						The importance of these two holdings is exemplified by the fact that in this
							particular case the combined value attributed to the franchises and the appreciation
							of real estate was over $15,000,000--more than one fourth of the total valuation
							arrived at by the Supreme Court. It will readily be seen that if these two items had
							been struck from the valuation by the Court, it would be possible for the state to
							make a still further substantial reduction in the rate charged for gas in New York
							City without violating the Court's own canon of reasonableness--a six per cent
							return.
						The steps in the evolution of the doctrine of judicial review may be summarized in
							the following manner:
						The Supreme Court first declared that the legislative determination of what was a
							"reasonable" rate was not subject to review by the courts.
						The first departure from this view was an intimation, confirmed with increasing
							emphasis in several cases, that a rate so low as to make any return whatever
							impossible was confiscatory and would be set aside by the Court as violating the
							Fourteenth Amendment. For a time,  however, the Court
							took the position (steadily undermined in subsequent decisions) that a rate which
							allowed some, even though an "unreasonably low" return, was not prohibited by the
							Fourteenth Amendment and could not be set aside by the Court.
						Next in order came the holding that the determination of a commission as to what was
							reasonable could not be made conclusive upon the courts, at least when the commission
							had acted without the forms and safeguards of judicial procedure, and, probably, even
							when it had acted with them.
						In the same decision appeared an intimation, which in subsequent decisions became
							crystallized into "settled law," that not only were totally confiscatory rates
							prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment, but also any rates which deprived the owners
							of the property regulated of a return equal to what was "customary" in private
							enterprises.
						This rule was applied by the Court for the first time against a rate fixed by a
							commission, and where the rate was admitted by the pleadings to be confiscatory. But
							it was shortly thereafter applied to a rate fixed by a legislature, and where the
							"reasonableness" (not the confiscatory character) of the rate was a direct issue on
							the facts and evidence.
						Finally, the principle that what is a "fair" or "reasonable" rate is to be measured
							by the customary return in private enterprises under similar conditions, has been
							applied in several cases to warrant the requirement of a definite rate of interest;
							but no precise rules have been laid down for the determination of such rate in all
							cases.


						
						The most striking feature, perhaps, of the development of the doctrine of judicial
							review here traced, as seen in the opinions of the Supreme Court, is the brevity and
							almost fortuitous character of the reasoning given in support of the most important
							and novel holdings. A comparison of the reasoning in Smyth v. Ames,
							for example, with that in Marbury v. Madison, in which Chief Justice
							Marshall first held a law of Congress unconstitutional, will forcibly exemplify this.
							The explanation is to be found largely in the fact that each step in advance in the
							building up of the doctrine had been foreshadowed in dictum before
							it was established as decision. It was thus possible for the judge writing the opinion
							in a case when a new rule was actually established, to quote, as "settled law," a mere
								dictum from a previous opinion. Justice Gray's citation, in this
							fashion, in the Dow case, of Chief Justice Waite's dictum in the
							Ruggles case (although he might, with equal cogency, have cited the Chief Justice's
							contrary dictum in the Munn or Peik cases), is a good instance of
							this curious use of "precedent"; and parallel instances could be adduced from
							virtually every one of the important subsequent cases on this subject.1
						It is apparent from this all too brief and incomplete 1 It should be noted that the Supreme Court
								not only undertook to pass upon the reasonableness of such rates as the states were
								permitted to make, but also added in 1886 that no state could regulate the rates on
								goods transported within its borders, when such goods were in transit to or from a
								point in another state. Such regulation was held in the Wabash, etc., Railway
								Company v. Illinois (118 U. S. 557) to be an interference with
								interstate commerce which was subject to control by Congress only.
							 account of the establishment of judicial review over
							every kind and class of state legislation affecting private property rights that no
							layman can easily unravel the mysterious refinements, distinctions, and logical
							subtleties by which the fact was finally established that property was to be free from
							all interference except such as might be allowed by the Supreme Court (or rather five
							judges of that Court) appointed by the President and Senate, thus removed as far as
							possible from the pressure of public sentiment. Had a bald veto power of this
							character been suddenly vested in any small group of persons, there can be no doubt
							that a political revolt would have speedily followed. But the power was built up by
							gradual accretions made by the Court under the stimulus of skilful counsel for private
							parties, and finally clothed in the majesty of settled law. It was a long time before
							the advocates of leveling democracy, leading an attack on corporate rights and
							privileges, discovered that the courts were the bulwarks of laissez
								faire and directed their popular battalions in that direction.
						Those who undertake to criticize the Supreme Court for this assumption of power do
							not always distinguish between the power itself and the manner of its exercise. What
							would have happened if the state legislatures had been given a free hand to regulate,
							penalize, and blackmail corporations at will during the evolution of our national
							economic system may be left to the imagination of those who recall from their history
							the breezy days of "wild-cat" currency, repudiation, and broken faith which
							characterized the thirty years preceding the Civil War when the Federal judiciary was
							under the dominance  of the states' rights school. The
							regulation of a national economic system by forty or more local legislatures would be
							nothing short of an attempt to combine economic unity with local anarchy. It is
							possible to hold that the Court has been too tender of corporate rights in assuming
							the power of judicial review, and at the same time recognize the fact that such a
							power, vested somewhere in the national government, is essential to the continuance of
							industries and commerce on a national scale.
						Thus far attention has been directed to the activities of the Federal Supreme Court
							in establishing the principle of judicial review particularly in connection with
							legislation relative to railway corporations, but it should be noted that judicial
							review covers all kinds of social legislation relative to hours and conditions of
							labor as well as the charges of common carriers. In 1905, for example, the Supreme
							Court in the celebrated case of Lochner v. New York declared null
							and void a New York law fixing the hours of work in bakeshops at ten per day, basing
							its action on the principle that the right to contract in relation to the hours of
							labor was a part of the liberty which the individual enjoyed under the Fourteenth
							Amendment. Mr. Justice Holmes, who dissented in the case, declared that it was decided
							on an economic theory which a large part of the country did not entertain, and
							protested that the Fourteenth Amendment did not "enact Mr. Herbert Spencer's Social Statics."
						As a matter of fact, however, the Supreme Court of the United States has declared
							very little social legislation  invalid, and has been
							inclined to take a more liberal view of such matters than the supreme courts of the
							states. The latter also have authority to declare state laws void as violating the
							Federal Constitution, and when a state court of proper jurisdiction invalidates a
							state law, there is, under the Federal judiciary act, no appeal to the Supreme Court
							of the United States. Consequently, the Fourteenth Amendment means in each state what
							the highest court holds it to mean, and since the adoption of that Amendment at least
							one thousand state laws have been nullified by the action of state courts, under the
							color of that Amendment or their respective state constitutions.
						As examples, in New York a law prohibiting the manufacture of cigars in tenement
							houses, in Pennsylvania a law prohibiting the payment of wages in "scrip" or store
							orders, and in Illinois a statute forbidding mining and manufacturing corporations to
							hold back the wages of their employees for more than a week were declared null and
							void. Such laws were nullified not only on the ground that they deprived the employer
							of property without due process, but also on the theory that they deprived workingmen
							of the "liberty" guaranteed to them to work under any conditions they chose. In one of
							these cases, a Pennsylvania court declared the labor law in question to be "an
							insulting attempt to put the laborer under a legislative tutelage which is not only
							degrading to his manhood but subversive of his rights as a citizen of the United
							States."
						Where the state court nullified under the state 
							constitution, it was of course relatively easy to set aside the doctrines of the court
							by amending the constitution, but where the state court nullified on the ground of the
							Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, there was no relief for the state
							and even no appeal for a review of the case to discover whether the Supreme Court of
							the United States would uphold the state tribunal in its view of the national law.
							Under such circumstances, the highest state court became the supreme power in the
							state, for its decrees based on the Federal Constitution were final. It was the
							freedom, one may say, recklessness, with which the courts nullified state laws that
							was largely responsible for the growth of the popular feeling against the judiciary,
							and led to the demand for the recall of judges.1
						1 Below, p. 287.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER IV
					
						PARTIES AND PARTY ISSUES 1877-1896
						IT was a long time before the conditions created by the great
							economic revolution were squarely reflected in political literature and party
							programs. Indeed, they were but vaguely comprehended by the generation of statesmen
							who had been brought up in the days of the stagecoach and the water mill. It is true
							that the inevitable drift of capitalism in the United States might have been foreseen
							by turning to Europe, particularly to England, where a similar economic revolution had
							produced clearly ascertainable results; but American politicians believed, or at least
							contended, that the United States lived under a special economic dispensation and that
							the grave social problems which had menaced Europe for more than a generation when the
							Civil War broke out could never arise on American soil.
						From 1861 to 1913, the Republican party held the presidential office, except for
							eight years. That party had emerged from the Civil War fortified by an intense
							patriotism and by the support of the manufacturing interests which had flourished
							under the high tariffs and of capitalists anxious to swing forward with the
							development of railways and new enterprises. Its origin had been marked by a wave of
							moral enthusiasm such as has seldom appeared in the history of politics.  It came to the presidency as a minority party, but by the
							fortunes of war it became possessed of instruments of power beyond all calculation.
							Its leading opponents from the South deserted in a mass giving it in a short time
							possession of the field--all the Federal branches of government. It had the management
							of the gigantic war finances, through which it attached to itself the interests and
							fortunes of the great capitalists and bankers throughout the North. It raised revenues
							by a high tariff which placed thousands of manufacturers under debt to it and linked
							their fortunes also with its fate. It possessed the Federal offices, and, therefore,
							railway financiers and promoters of all kinds had to turn to it for privileges and
							protection. Finally, millions of farmers of the West owed their homes to its generous
							policy of giving away public lands. Never had a party had its foundations on interests
							ramifying throughout such a large portion of society.
						And over all it spread the mantle of patriotism. It had saved the Union, and it had
							struck the shackles from four million bondmen. In a baptism of fire it had redeemed a
							nation. Europe's finger of scorn could no longer be pointed to the "slave republic
							paying its devotions to liberty and equality within the sound of the bondman's wail."
							The promises of the Declaration of Independence had been fulfilled and the heroic
							deeds of the Revolution rivaled by Republican leaders. As it declared in its platform
							of 1876, the Republican party had come into power "when in the economy of Providence
							this land was to be purged of human slavery and when the strength of the government of
							the people, by the  people, and for the people was to be
							demonstrated." Incited by the memories of its glorious deeds "to high aims for the
							good of our country and mankind," it looked forward "with unfaltering courage, hope,
							and purpose."
						Against such a combination of patriotism and economic interest, the Democratic party
							had difficulty in making headway, for its former economic mainstay, the slave power,
							was broken and gone; it was charged with treason, and it enjoyed none of the spoils of
							national office. But in spite of all obstacles it showed remarkable vitality. Though
							divided on the slave question in 1860, those who boasted the name of "Democrat" were
							in an overwhelming majority, and even during the Civil War, with the southern wing cut
							off completely, the party was able to make a respectable showing in the campaign which
							resulted in Lincoln's second election. When the South returned to the fold, and white
							dominion drove the negro from the polls, the Democratic party began to renew its
							youth. In the elections of 1874, it captured the House of Representatives; it narrowly
							missed the presidency in 1876; and it retained its control of the lower house of
							Congress in the elections of 1876 and 1878.
						The administration of President Hayes did little to strengthen the position of the
							Republicans. His policy of pacification in the South alienated many partisans who
							believed that those who had saved the Union should continue to rule it; but it is
							difficult to say how much disaffection should be attributed to this cause. It seems to
							have been quietly understood within official  circles
							that support would be withdrawn from the Republican administrations in Louisiana and
							South Carolina. Senator Hoar is authority for the statement "that General Grant,
							before he left office, had determined to do in regard to these state governments
							exactly what Hayes afterward did, and that Hayes acted with his full approval. Second,
							I have the authority of President Garfield for saying that Mr. Blaine had come to the
							same conclusion."
						Charges based on sectional feeling were also brought forward in criticism of some of
							Hayes' cabinet appointments. He terrified the advocates of "no concession to rebels"
							by appointing David M. Key, an ex-Confederate soldier of Tennessee, to the office of
							Postmaster-General; and his selection of Carl Schurz, a leader of the Liberal
							Republican Movement of 1872 and an uncertain quantity in politics, as Secretary of the
							Interior, was scarcely more palatable in some quarters. He created further trouble in
							Republican ranks by his refusal to accede to the demands of powerful Senators, like
							Cameron of Pennsylvania and Conkling of New York, for control over patronage in their
							respective states. No other President for more than a generation had so many
							nominations rejected by the Senate.
						On the side of legislation, Hayes' administration was nearly barren. During his
							entire term the House of Representatives was Democratic, and during the last two years
							the Senate was Democratic also by a good margin. Had he desired to carry out a large
							legislative policy, he could not have done so; but he was not a man of great capacity
							as an initiator of public policies.  He maintained his
							dignity and self-possession in the midst of the most trying party squabbles; but in a
							democracy other qualities than these are necessary for effective leadership.
						In their desperation, the conservative leaders of the Republican party resolved to
							have no more "weak and goody-goody" Presidents, incapable of fascinating the populace
							and keeping it in good humor, and they made a determined effort to secure the
							renomination of Grant for a third term, in spite of the tradition against it. Conkling
							captured the New York delegation to the national convention in 1880 for Grant; Cameron
							swung Pennsylvania into line; and Logan carried off Illinois. Grant's consent to be a
							candidate was obtained, and Conkling placed his name in nomination in a speech which
							Senator Hoar describes as one of "very great power."
						Strong opposition to Grant developed, however, partly on account of the feeling
							against the third term, and particularly on account of the antagonism to the Conkling
							faction which was backing him. Friends of Blaine, then Senator from Maine, and
							supporters of John Sherman of Ohio, thought that Grant had had enough honors at the
							hands of the party, and that their turn had come. As a result of a combination of
							circumstances, Grant never received more than 313 of the 378 votes necessary to
							nomination at the Republican convention. After prolonged balloting, the deadlock was
							broken by the nomination of James A. Garfield, of Ohio, as a "dark horse." The Grant
							contingent from New  York received a sop in the shape of
							the nomination of Chester A. Arthur, a politician of the Conkling school, to the
							office of Vice President.
						In spite of the promising signs, the Democrats were unable to defeat the Republicans
							in 1880. The latter found it possible to heal, at least for campaign purposes, the
							breaches created by Hayes' administration. It is true that Senator Conkling and the
							"Stalwart" faction identified with corporation interests were sorely disappointed in
							their failure to secure the nomination of Grant for a third term, and that Garfield as
							a "dark horse" did not have a personal following like that of his chief opponents, the
							Hero of Appomattox, Blaine of Maine, and Sherman of Ohio. But he had the advantage of
							escaping the bitter factional feeling within the party against each of these leaders.
							He had risen from humble circumstances, and his managers were able to make great
							capital out of his youthful labors as a "canal-boat boy." He had served several terms
							in Congress acceptably; he had been intrusted with a delicate place as a member of the
							electoral commission that had settled the Hayes-Tilden dispute; and he was at the time
							of his nomination Senator-elect from Ohio. Though without the high qualities of
							leadership that distinguished Blaine, Garfield was a decidedly "available" candidate,
							and his candidature was strengthened by the nomination of Arthur, who was acceptable
							to the Conkling group and the spoilsmen generally.
						The Republican fortunes in 1880 were further enhanced by the divisions among the
							Democrats and their inability to play the game of practical politics. Two sets  of delegates appeared at the convention from New York, and
							the Tammany group headed by "Boss" Kelly was excluded, thus offending a powerful
							section of the party in that pivotal state. The candidate nominated, General Hancock,
							was by no means a skilful leader. In fact, he had had no public experience outside of
							the Army, where he had made a brilliant record, and he showed no ability at all as a
							campaigner. Finally, the party made its fight principally on the "great fraud of
							1876," asking vindication at the hands of the people on the futile theory that the
							voters would take an interest in punishing a four-year-old crime. In its platform,
							reported by Mr. Watterson, of Kentucky, it declared that the Democrats had submitted
							to that outrage because they were convinced that the people would punish the crime in
							1880. "This issue precedes and dwarfs every other; it imposes a more sacred duty upon
							the people of the Union than ever addressed to the conscience of a nation of freemen."
							Notwithstanding this narrow issue, Hancock fell behind Garfield only about ten
							thousand votes, although his electoral vote was only 155 to 214 for his opponent.
						Whether Garfield would have been able to consolidate his somewhat shattered party by
							effective leadership is a matter of speculation, for, on July 2, 1881, about four
							months after his inauguration, he was shot by Charles J. Guiteau, a disappointed and
							half-crazed office seeker, and he died on September 19. His successor, Vice President
							Arthur, though a man of considerable ability, who managed his office with more acumen
							and common honesty than his opponents attributed to him, was unable to clear away the
							accumulating dissatisfaction within  his party or
							convince the country that the party would do its own reforming.
						In fact, Arthur, notwithstanding the taint of "spoils" associated with his career,
							proved to be by no means the easy-going politician that had been expected. He took a
							firm stand against extravagant appropriations as a means of getting rid of the
							Treasury surplus, and in 1882 he vetoed a river and harbor appropriation bill which
							was specially designed to distribute funds among localities on the basis of
							favoritism. In the same year, he vetoed a Chinese exclusion act as violating the
							treaty with China, and made recommendations as to changes which were accepted by
							Congress. Arthur also advocated legislation against the spoils system, and on January
							16, 1883, signed the Civil Service law.1 He recommended a revision of the tariff, including some
							striking reductions in schedules, but the tariff act of 1883 was even less
							satisfactory to the public than such measures usually are. Judging by past standards,
							however, Arthur had a claim upon his party for the nomination in 1884.
						But Arthur was not a magnetic leader, and the election of Grover Cleveland as
							governor of New York in 1882 and Democratic victories elsewhere warned the Republicans
							that their tenure of power was not indefinite. Circumspection, however, was difficult.
							A "reform" faction had grown up within the party, protesting against the gross
							practices of old leaders like Conkling and urging at least more outward signs of
							propriety. In this 1 See
								below, p. 130.
							 faction were Senator Hoar of Massachusetts, George
							William Curtis, Henry Cabot Lodge, and Theodore Roosevelt--the last of whom had just
							begun his political career with his election to the New York legislature in 1881.
							Senator Edmunds, of Vermont, was the leader of this group, and his nomination was
							warmly urged in the Republican convention at Chicago in 1884.
						The hopes of the Republican reformers were completely dashed, however, by the
							nomination of Blaine. This "gentleman from Maine" was a man of brilliant parts and the
							idol of large sections of the country, particularly the Middle West; but some
							suspicions concerning his personal integrity were widely entertained, and not without
							reason, by a group of influential leaders in his party. In 1876, he was charged with
							having shared in the corruption funds of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and as
							Professor Dunning cautiously puts it, "the facts developed put Mr. Blaine under grave
							suspicion of just that sort of wealth-getting, if nothing worse, which had ruined his
							colleagues in the Credit Mobilier." Moreover, Mr. Blaine's associations had been with
							that wing of his party which had been involved or implicated in one scandal after
							another. Partly on this account, he had been defeated for nomination in 1876, when he
							was decidedly the leading aspirant and again in 1880 when he received 285 votes in the
							convention. But in 1884, leaders like Senator Platt, of New York, declared "it is now
							Blaine's turn," and he was nominated in spite of a threatened bolt.
						The Democrats were fortunate in their selection of Grover Cleveland as their standard
							bearer. He had  been mayor of Buffalo and governor of New
							York, but he had taken no part in national politics and had the virtue of having few
							enemies in that field. He was not a man of any large comprehension of the economic
							problems of his age, but he was in every way acceptable to financiers in New York, for
							he had showed his indifference to popular demands by vetoing a five-cent fare bill for
							the New York City elevated roads which were then being watered and manipulated by
							astute speculators, like Jay Gould. Moreover, Mr. Cleveland possessed certain
							qualities of straightforwardness and homely honesty which commended him to a nation
							wearied of scandalous revelations and the malodorous spoils system.
						These qualities drew to Cleveland the support of a group of eminent Republicans, like
							Carl Schurz who had been Secretary of the Interior under Hayes, George William Curtis,
							the civil service reformer, Henry Ward Beecher, and William Everett, who were
							nicknamed "Mugwumps" from an Indian word meaning "chief." Although the "reformers"
							talked a great deal about "purity" in politics, the campaign of 1884 was principally
							over personalities; and, as a contemporary newspaper put it, it took on the tone of "a
							pothouse quarrel." There was no real division over issues, as will be seen by a
							comparison of platforms, and scandalous rumors respecting the morals of the two
							candidates were freely employed as campaign arguments. Indeed, the spirit of the fray
							is reflected in the words of the Democratic platform: "The Republican party, so far as
							principle is concerned, is a reminiscence. In practice, it is an organization for
							enriching those who control its machinery.  The frauds
							and jobbery which have been brought to light in every department of the government are
							sufficient to have called for reform within the Republican party; yet those in
							authority, made reckless by the long possession of power, have succumbed to its
							corrupting influence and have placed in nomination a ticket against which the
							independent portion of the party are in open revolt. Therefore a change is demanded."
							Having enjoyed no opportunities for corruption worthy of mention, except in New York
							City where they had reaped a good harvest during the sunshine, the Democrats could
							honestly pose as the party of "purity in politics."
						Their demand for a change was approved by the voters, for Cleveland received 219
							electoral votes as against 182 cast for Blaine. A closer analysis of the vote,
							however, shows no landslide to the Democrats, for had New York been shifted to the
							Republican column, the result would have been 218 for Blaine and 183 for Cleveland.
							And the Democratic victory in New York was so close that a second count was necessary,
							upon which it was discovered that the successful candidate had only about eleven
							hundred votes more than the vanquished Blaine. Taking the country as a whole, the
							Democrats had a plurality of a little more than twenty thousand votes.
						Cleveland's administration was beset by troubles from the beginning. The civil
							service reformers were early disappointed with his performances, as they might have
							expected. It is true that the Democratic party had posed in general as the party of
							"reform," because forsooth having no patronage to dispense nor favors  to grant it could readily make a virtue of necessity; but
							it is fair to say that the party had in fact been somewhat noncommittal on civil
							service reform, and Cleveland, though friendly, was hardly to be classed as ardent.
							The test came soon after his inauguration. More than one hundred thousand Federal
							offices were in the hands of Republicans; the Senate which had to pass upon the
							President's chief nominations was Republican and the clash between the two authorities
							was spectacular. The pressure of Democrats for office was naturally strong, and
							although the civil service reformers got a few crumbs of comfort, the bald fact stood
							forth that within two years only about one third of the former officeholders remained.
							"Of the chief officers," says Professor Dewey, "including the fourth class
							postmasters, collectors, land officers, numbering about 58,000, over 45,000 were
							changed. All of the 85 internal revenue collectors were displaced; and of the 111
							collectors of customs, 100 were removed or not reappointed."
						Cleveland's executive policy was negative rather than positive. He vigorously applied
							the veto to private pension bills. From the foundation of the government until 1897,
							it appears that 265 such bills were denied executive approval; and of these five were
							vetoed by Grant and 260 by Cleveland--nearly all of the latter's negatives being in
							his first administration. Cleveland also vetoed a general dependent pension bill in
							1887 on the ground that it was badly drawn and ill considered. Although his enemies
							attempted to show that he was hostile to the old soldiers, his vetoes were in fact
							based  rather upon a careful examination of the merits
							of the several acts which showed extraordinary carelessness, collusion, and fraud. At
							all events, the Grand Army Encampment in 1887 refused to pass a resolution of censure.
							Cleveland also killed the river and harbor bill of 1887 by a pocket veto, and he put
							his negative on a measure, passed the following year, returning to the treasuries of
							the northern states nearly all of the direct taxes which they had paid during the
							Civil War in support of the Federal government.
						On the constructive side, Cleveland's first administration was marked by a
							vigorous land policy under which upwards of 80,000,000 acres of land were recovered
							from private corporations and persons who had secured their holdings illegally. He was
							also the first President to treat the labor problem in a special message (1886); and
							he thus gave official recognition to a new force in politics, although the sole
							outcome of his recommendations was the futile law of 1888 providing for the voluntary
							arbitration of disputes between railways and their employees. The really noteworthy
							measure of his first administration was the interstate commerce law of 1887, but that
							could hardly be called a partisan achievement.1
						Holding his place by no overwhelming mandate and having none of those qualities of
							brilliant leadership which arouse the multitude, Cleveland was unable to intrench his
							party, and he was forced to surrender 1 Below, p. 133. The tenure of office law was repealed in 1887.
								The presidential succession act was passed in 1886.
							 his office at the end of four years' tenure, although
							his party showed its confidence by renominating him in 1888. He had a Democratic House
							during his administration, but he was embarrassed by party divisions there and by a
							Republican Senate. Under such circumstances, he was able to do little that was
							striking, and in his message of December, 1887, he determined to set an issue by a
							vigorous attack on the tariff--a subject which had been treated in a gingerly fashion
							by both parties since the War. While he disclaimed adherence to the academic theory of
							free trade as a principle, his language was readily turned by his enemies into an
							attack on the principle of the protective tariff. Although the performance of the
							Democrats in the passage of the Mills tariff bill by the House in 1888 showed in fact
							no strong leanings toward free trade, the Republicans were able to force a campaign on
							the "American doctrine of protection for labor against the pauper millions of
							Europe."
						On this issue they carried the election of 1888. Passing by Blaine once more, the
							Republicans selected Benjamin Harrison, of Indiana, a United States Senator, a shrewd
							lawyer, and a reticent politician. Mr. Wanamaker, a rich Philadelphia merchant, was
							chosen to raise campaign funds, and he successfully discharged the functions of his
							office. As he said himself, he addressed the business men of the country in the
							following language: "How much would you pay for insurance upon your business? If you
							were confronted by from one to three years of general depression by a change in our
							revenue and protective measures affecting our 
							manufactures, wages, and good times, what would you pay to be insured for a better
							year?" The appeal was effective and with a full campaign chest and the astute Matthew
							S. Quay as director of the national committee, the Republicans outwitted the
							Democrats, winning 233 electors' votes against 168 for Cleveland, although the popular
							vote for Harrison was slightly under that for his opponent.
						Harrison's administration opened auspiciously in many ways. The appointment of Blaine
							as Secretary of State was a diplomatic move, for undoubtedly Blaine was far more
							popular with the rank and file of his party than was Harrison. The civil service
							reformers were placated by the appointment of Theodore Roosevelt as president of the
							Civil Service Commission, for he was a vigorous champion of reform, who brought the
							whole question forcibly before the country by his speeches and articles, although it
							must be said that no very startling gains were made against the spoils system under
							his administration of the civil service law. It required time to educate the country
							to the point of supporting the administrative heads in resisting the clamor of the
							politicians for office.
						Harrison's leadership in legislation was not noteworthy. The Republicans were in
							power in the lower house in 1889 for the first time since 1881, but their majority was
							so small that it required all of the parliamentary ingenuity which Speaker Reed could
							command to keep the legislative machine in operation. Nevertheless, several important
							measures were enacted into law. The McKinley tariff act based upon the doctrine  of high protection was passed in 1890. In response to the
							popular outcry against the trusts, the Sherman antitrust law was enacted the same
							year; and the silver party was thrown a sop in the form of the Sherman silver purchase
							act. The veterans of the Civil War received new recognition in the law of 1890
							granting pensions for all disabled soldiers whether their disabilities were incurred
							in service or not. Negro voters were taken into account by an attempt to get a new
							"force bill" through Congress, which would insure a "free ballot and a fair count
							everywhere."
						There had been nothing decisive, however, about the Republican victory in 1888, for a
							few thousand votes in New York changed the day as four years before. Harrison had not
							proved to be a very popular candidate, and there was nothing particularly brilliant or
							striking about his administration to enhance his reputation. He was able to secure a
							renomination in 1892, largely because he controlled so many officeholding delegates to
							the Republican convention, and there was no other weighty candidate in the field,
							Blaine being unwilling to make an open fight at the primaries.
						In the second contest with Cleveland, Harrison was badly worsted, receiving only 145
							electoral votes against 277 cast for the Democratic candidate and 22 for the Populist,
							Weaver. The campaign was marked by no special incidents, for both Cleveland and
							Harrison had been found safe and conservative and there was no very sharp division
							over issues. The tariff, it is true, was vigorously discussed, but Cleveland made it
							clear  that no general assault would be made on any
							protected interests. The million votes cast for the Populist candidate, however, was a
							solemn warning that the old game of party see-saw over personalities could not go on
							indefinitely. The issues springing from the great economic revolution were emerging,
							not clearly and sharply, but rather in a vague unrest and discontent with the old
							parties and their methods.
						President Cleveland went into power for the second time on what appeared to be a wave
							of business prosperity, but those who looked beneath the surface knew that
							serious financial and industrial difficulties were pending. Federal revenues were
							declining and a deficit was staring the government in the face at a time when there
							was, for several reasons, a stringency in the gold market. The Treasury gold reserve
							was already rapidly diminishing, and Harrison was on the point of selling bonds when
							the inauguration of Cleveland saved the day for him. Congress was deadlocked on the
							money question, though called in a special session to grant relief; and Cleveland at
							length resorted to the sale of bonds under an act of 1875 to procure gold for the
							Treasury. The first sale was made in January, 1894, and the financiers, to pay for the
							bonds, drew nearly half of the amount of gold out of the Treasury itself.
						The "endless chain" system of selling bonds to get gold for the Treasury, only to
							have it drawn out immediately, aroused a great hue and cry against the financial
							interests. In November, 1894, a second sale was made with similar results, and in
							February, 1895, Cleveland in sheer desperation called in Mr. J.P. Morgan and  arranged for the purchase of gold at a fixed price by the
							issue of bonds, with an understanding that the bankers would do their best to protect
							the Treasury. To the silver advocates and the Populists this was the climax of
							"Cleveland's iniquitous career of subserviency to Wall Street," for it seemed to show
							that the government was powerless before the demands of the financiers. This criticism
							forced the administration to throw open the issue of January 6, 1896, to the public,
							and the result was decidedly advantageous to the government--apparently an indictment
							of Cleveland's policy. Congress in the meantime did nothing to relieve the
							administration.

						While the government was wrestling with the financial problem, the country was in the
							midst of an industrial crisis. The number of bankruptcies rose with startling
							rapidity, hundreds of factories were closed, and idle men thronged the streets hunting
							for work. According to a high authority, Professor D.R. Dewey, "never before had the
							evil of unemployment been so widespread in the United States." It was so pressing that
							Jacob Coxey, a business man from Ohio, planned a march of idle men on Washington in
							1894 to demand relief at the hands of the government. His "army," as it was called,
							ended in a fiasco, but it directed the attention of the country to a grave condition
							of affairs.
						Reductions in wages produced severe strikes, one of which--the Pullman strike of
							Chicago--led to the paralysis of the railways entering Chicago, because the Pullman
							employees were supported by the American Railway Union. The disorders connected with
							the  strike--which are now known to have been partially
							fomented by the companies themselves for the purpose of inducing Federal
							interference--led President Cleveland to dispatch troops to Chicago, against the
							ardent protest of Governor Altgeld, who declared that the state of Illinois was able
							to manage her own affairs without intermeddling from Washington. The president of the
							union, Mr. E.V. Debs, was thrown into prison for violating a "blanket injunction"1 issued by the local Federal
							court, and thus the strike was broken, leaving behind it a legacy of bitterness which
							has not yet disappeared.
						The most important piece of legislation during Cleveland's second administration was
							the Wilson tariff bill--a measure which was so objectionable to the President that he
							could not sign it, and it therefore became law. without his approval. The only popular
							feature in it was the income tax provision, which was annulled the following year by
							the Supreme Court. Having broken with his party on the money question, and having
							failed to secure a revision of the tariff to suit his ideas, Cleveland retired in
							1897, and one of his party members declared that he was "the most cordially hated
							Democrat in the country."
					
					
						Party Issues
						The tariff was one of the issues bequeathed to the parties from ante-bellum days, but
							there was no very 1 A
								judicial order to all and sundry forbidding them to interfere with the movement of
								the trains.
							 sharply defined battle over it until the campaign of
							1888. The Republicans, in their platform of 1860, had declared that "sound policy
							requires such an adjustment of these imposts as to encourage the development of the
							industrial interests of the whole country"; and although from time to time they
							advocated tariff reductions, they remained consistently a protectionist party. The
							high war-tariffs, however, were revenue measures, although the protection feature was
							by no means lost sight of. In the campaign of 1864, both parties were silent on the
							question; four years later it again emerged in the Democratic platform, but it was not
							hotly debated in the ensuing contest. The Democrats demanded "a tariff for revenue
							upon foreign imports and such equal taxation under the internal revenue laws as will
							afford incidental protection to domestic manufactures."
						From that campaign forward the Democrats appeared to favor a "revenue tariff" in
							their platforms. It is true they accepted the Liberal Republican platform in 1872,
							which frankly begged the question by acknowledging the wide differences of opinion on
							the subject and remitted the discussion of the matter "to the people in their
							congressional districts and the decision of Congress thereon." But in 1876, the
							Democrats came back to the old doctrine and demanded "that all custom-house taxation
							shall be only for revenue." In their victorious campaign of 1884, however, they were
							vague. They pledged themselves "to revise the tariff in a spirit of fairness to all
							interests"; but they promised, in making reductions, not "to injure any domestic  industries, but rather to promote their healthy growth,"
							and to be mindful of capital and labor at every step. Subject to these "limitations"
							they favored confining taxation to public purposes only. It was small wonder that
							Democratic orators during the campaign could promise "no disturbance of business in
							case of victory."
						Cleveland, in the beginning of his administration, faithfully followed his platform,
							for in his first message he "placed the need of tax reduction solely on the ground of
							excess revenue and declared that there was no occasion for a discussion of the wisdom
							or expediency of the protective system." But within two years he had seen a new light,
							and he devoted his message of December, 1887, exclusively to a discussion of the
							tariff issue, in vague and uncertain language it is true, but still characterized by
							such a ringing denunciation of the "vicious, illegal, and inequitable" system of
							taxation then in vogue, that the Republicans were able to call it, with some show of
							justification, a "free trade document." The New York Tribune
							announced with evident glee that Cleveland had made "the issue boldly and distinctly
							and that the theories and aims of the ultra-opponents of protection have a new and
							zealous advocate." Of course, Cleveland hotly denied that he was trying to commit his
							party to a simple doctrine of free trade or even the old principle of the platform,
							"tariff for revenue only." Moreover, the Democrats, in their platform of the following
							year, while indorsing Cleveland's messages, renewed the tariff pledges of their last
							platform and promised to take "labor" into a careful consideration in any
							revision.


						
						In spite of the equivocal position taken by the Democrats, the Republicans made great
							political capital out of the affair, apparently on the warranted assumption that the
							voters would not read Cleveland's message or the platform of his party. In their
							declaration of principles in 1888, the Republicans made the tariff the leading issue:
							"We are uncompromisingly in favor of the American system of protection. We protest
							against its destruction, as proposed by the President and his party. They serve the
							interests of Europe; we will support the interest of America. We accept the issue and
							confidently appeal to the people for their judgment. The protective system must be
							maintained. . . . We favor the entire repeal of internal taxes rather than the
							surrender of any part of our protective system, at the joint behest of the whisky
							trusts and the agents of foreign manufacturers." Again, in 1892, the Republicans
							attempted to make the tariff the issue : "We reaffirm the American doctrine of
							protection. We call attention to its growth abroad. We maintain that the prosperous
							condition of our country is largely due to the wise revenue legislation of the
							Republican Congress," i.e. the McKinley bill.
						The effect of this Republican hammering on the subject was to bring out a solemn
							declaration on the part of the Democrats. "We denounce," they say in 1892, "the
							Republican protection as a fraud, a robbery of the great majority of the American
							people for the benefit of the few. We declare it to be a fundamental principle of the
							Democratic party that the Federal government has no constitutional power to impose and
							collect tariff  duties, except for the purposes of
							revenue only, and we demand that the collection of such taxes shall be limited to the
							necessities of the government when honestly and economically administered." Although
							elected on this platform, the Democrats did not regard their mandate as warranting a
							serious attack on the protective system, for the Wilson tariff act of 1894 was so
							disappointing to moderate tariff reformers that Cleveland refused to sign it.
						A close analysis of the platforms and performances of the parties from 1876 to 1896
							shows no clear alignment at all on the tariff. Both parties promise reductions, but
							neither is specific as to details. The Republicans, while making much of the
							protective system, could not ignore the demand for tariff reform; and the Democrats,
							while repeating the well-worn phrases about tariff for revenue, were unable to
							overlook the fact that a drastic assault upon the protective interests would mean
							their undoing. In Congress, the Republicans made no serious efforts to lower the
							duties, and the attempts of the Democrats produced meager results.
						Among the new issues raised by the economic revolution was the control of giant
							combinations of capital. Although some of the minor parties had declaimed against
							trusts as early as 1876, and the Democratic party, in 1884, had denounced "land
							monopolies," industrial combinations did not figure as distinct issues in the
							platforms of the old parties until 1888. In that year, the Democrats vaguely referred
							to unnecessary taxation as a source of trusts and combinations, which, "while  unduly enriching the few that combine, rob the body of
							our citizens by depriving them of the benefits of natural competition." Here appears
							the favorite party slogan that "the tariff is the mother of the trusts," and the
							intimation that the remedy is the restoration of "natural competition" by a reduction
							of the tariff. The Republicans in 1888 also recognized the existence of the trust
							problem by declaring against all combinations designed to control trade arbitrarily,
							and recommended to Congress and the states legislation within their jurisdictions to
							"prevent the execution of all schemes to oppress the people by undue charges on their
							supplies or by unjust rates for the transportation of their products to market."
						Both old parties returned to the trust question again in 1892. The Democrats
							recognized "in the trusts and combinations which are designed to enable capital to
							secure more than its just share of the joint product of capital and labor, a natural
							consequence of the prohibitive taxes which prevent the free competition which is the
							life of honest trade, but we believe the worst evils can be abated by law." Thereupon
							follows a demand for additional legislation restraining and controlling trusts. The
							Republicans simply reaffirmed their declaration of 1888, indorsed the Sherman
							anti-trust law already enacted by Congress in 1890, and favored new legislation
							remedying defects and rendering the enforcement of the law more complete.
						The railway issue emerged in 1880 when the Republicans, boasting that under their
							administration railways  had increased "from thirty-two
							thousand miles in 1860 to eighty-two thousand miles in 1879," pronounced against any
							further grants of public domain to railway corporations. The Democrats went on record
							against discriminations in favor of transportation lines, but left the subject with
							that pronouncement. Four years later the subject had taken on more precision. The
							Republicans favored the public regulation of railway corporations and indorsed
							legislation preventing unjust discriminations and excessive charges for
							transportation, but in the campaign of 1888 the overshadowing tariff issue enabled
							them to omit references to railway regulation. The Democrats likewise ignored the
							subject in 1884 and 1888. In 1892 the question was overlooked by the platforms of both
							parties, although the minor parties were loudly demanding action on the part of the
							Federal Government. The old parties agreed, however, on the necessity of legislation
							protecting the life and limb of employees engaged in interstate transportation.
						Even before the Civil War, the labor vote had become a factor that could not be
							ignored, and both old parties consistently conciliated it by many references. The
							Republicans in 1860 commended that "policy of national exchanges which secures to the
							workingmen liberal wages." The defense of the protective system was gradually shifted
							by the Republicans, until, judging from the platforms, its continuation was
							justifiable principally on account of their anxiety to safeguard the American
							workingman against "the pauper labor of  Europe." The
							Democrats could not overlook the force of this appeal, and in their repeated demands
							for the reduction of the tariff they announced that no devotion to free trade
							principles would allow them to pass legislation which might put American labor "in
							competition with the underpaid millions of the Old World." In 1880, the Democratic
							party openly professed itself the friend of labor and the laboring man and pledged
							itself to "protect him against the cormorant and the commune." In their platform of
							1888, the Democrats promised to make "due allowance for the difference between the
							wages of American and foreign labor" in their tariff revisions; and in 1892 they
							deplored the fact that under the McKinley tariff there had been ten reductions in the
							wages of the workingmen to one increase. In the latter year, the Republicans urged
							that on articles competing with American products the duties should "equal the
							difference between wages abroad and at home."
						Among the more concrete offerings to labor were the promises of homesteads in the
							West by the Republicans--promises which the Democrats reiterated; protection against
							Chinese and coolie labor, particularly in the West, safety-appliance laws applicable
							to interstate carriers, the establishment of a labor bureau at Washington, the
							prohibition of the importation of alien laborers under contract, and the abolition of
							prison contract labor. On these matters there was no marked division between the two
							old parties; each advocated measures of its own in general terms and denounced the
							propositions of the other in equally general terms.


						
						The money question bulked large in the platforms, but until 1896 there was nothing
							like a clean-cut division.1
							Both parties hedged and remained consistently vague. The Republicans in 1888 declared
							in favor of "the use of both gold and silver as money," and condemned "the policy of
							the Democratic administration in its efforts to demonetize silver." Again, in 1892,
							the Republicans declared: "The American people, from tradition and interest, favor
							bimetallism, and the Republican party demands the use of both gold and silver as
							standard money, with such restriction and under such provisions, to be determined by
							legislation, as will secure the maintenance of the parity of values of the two metals,
							so that the purchasing and debt-paying power of the dollar, whether of silver, gold,
							or paper, shall be at all times equal." The Democrats likewise hedged their profession
							of faith about with limitations and provisions. They declared in favor of both metals
							and no discrimination for mintage; but the unit of coinage of both metals "must be of
							equal intrinsic or exchangeable value, or be adjusted through international agreement
							or by such safeguards of legislation as shall insure the maintenance of the parity of
							the two metals." Thus both of the platforms of 1892 are paragons of ambiguity. 1 See below, p. 119.
						
					
				

				
				
					CHAPTER V
						 TWO DECADES OF FEDERAL LEGISLATION, 1877-1896
					
						Financial Questions
						IT was inevitable that financial measures should occupy the first
							place in the legislative labors of Congress for a long time after the War. That
							conflict had left an enormous debt of more than two billion eight hundred million
							dollars, and the taxes were not only high, but they reached nearly every source which
							was open to the Federal government. There were outstanding more than four hundred
							millions of legal tender treasury notes, "greenbacks," which had seriously depreciated
							and, on account of their variability as compared with gold, offered unlimited
							opportunities for speculation and jugglery in Wall Street--of which Jay Gould's
							attempt to corner the gold market and the precipitation of the disaster of Black
							Friday in 1869 were only spectacular incidents.
						Three distinct problems confronted the national administration: the refunding of the
							national debt at lower rates of interest, the final determination of the place and
							basis of the paper money in the currency system, and the comparative treatment of gold
							and silver coinage. The first of these tasks was undertaken by Congress during Grant's
							administration, when, by  the refunding acts of 1870 and
							1871, the Treasury was empowered to substitute four, four and one-half, and five per
							cent bonds for the war issues at the high rates of five, six, and even seven per
							cent.
						The two remaining problems were by no means so easy of solution, because they went to
							the root of the financial system of the country. Most of the financial interests of
							the East were anxious to return to a specie basis for the currency by retiring the
							legal tender notes or by placing them on a metallic foundation. The Treasury under
							President Johnson began to withdraw the greenbacks from circulation under authority of
							an act of Congress passed in 1866; but it soon met the determined resistance of the
							paper money party, which looked upon contraction as a banker's device to appreciate
							the value of gold and reduce the amount of money in circulation, thus bringing low
							prices for labor and commodities. Within two years Congress peremptorily stopped the
							withdrawal of additional Treasury notes.1
						Shortly after forbidding the further retirement of legal tender notes, Congress
							reassured the hard money party by passing, on March 18, 1869, an act promising, on the
							faith of the United States, to pay in coin "all obligations not otherwise redeemable,"
							and to redeem the legal tender notes in specie "as soon as practicable." A further
							gain for hard money was made in 1875 by the passage of the Resumption Act, providing
							that on and after January 1, 1879, "the Secretary of the Treasury shall redeem in coin
							the United States legal tender notes then outstanding, on their presentation for
							redemption 1 See below,
								p. 123.
							 at the office of the Assistant Treasurer of the United
							States in the City of New York, in sums of not less than fifty dollars." When the day
							set for redemption arrived, the Secretary of the Treasury was prepared with a large
							hoard of gold, and public confidence in the government was so high that comparatively
							little paper was presented in exchange for specie.
						Out of the conflict over the inflation and contraction of the currency grew the
							struggle over "free silver" which was not ended until the campaign of 1900. To
							understand this controversy we must go back beyond the Civil War. The Constitution, as
							drafted in 1787, gives Congress the power to coin money and regulate the value thereof
							and forbids the states to issue bills of credit or make anything but the gold and
							silver coin of the United States legal tender in the payment of debts. Nothing is said
							in that instrument about the power of Congress to issue paper money, and it is
							questionable whether the framers intended to leave the door open for legal tenders or
							notes of any kind.
						In 1792, the new Federal government began to coin gold and silver at the ratio of 1
							to 15, but it was soon found that at this ratio gold was undervalued, and consequently
							little or no gold was brought to the Treasury to be coined. At length, in 1834,
							Congress, by law, fixed the ratio between the two metals approximately at 16 to 1; but
							this was found to be an overvaluation of gold or an undervaluation of silver, as some
							said, and as a result silver was not brought to the Treasury for coinage and almost
							dropped out of the monetary system. Finally, in 1873, when the silver dollar was
							already 119  practically out of circulation, Congress
							discontinued the coinage of the standard silver dollar altogether--"demonetized"
							it--and left gold as the basis of the monetary system.1
						It happened about this time that the price of silver began to decline steadily, until
							within twenty years it was about half the price it was in 1870. Some men attributed
							this fall in the price of silver to the fact that Germany had demonetized it in 1871,
							and that about the same time rich deposits of silver were discovered in the United
							States. Others declared that silver had not fallen so much in price, but that gold, in
							which it was measured, had risen on account of the fact that silver had been
							demonetized and gold given a monopoly of the coinage market. On this matter
							Republicans and Democrats were both divided, for it brought a new set of economic
							antagonisms into play--the debtor and the creditor--as opposed to the antagonisms
							growing out of slavery and reconstruction.
						Some Republicans, like Senator Morrill, of Vermont, firmly believed that no approach
							could be made to a genuine bimetallic currency, both metals freely and equally
							circulating, without the cooperation of the leading commercial nations of the world;
							and they also went so far as to doubt whether it would be possible even then to adjust
							the "fickle ratio" finely enough to prevent supply and demand from driving one or the
							other metal out of circulation. Other Republicans, like 1 The Silver Democrats declared that this
								demonetization was secretly brought about by a "conspiracy" on the part of gold
								advocates, and named the act in question "the crime of '73."
							 Blaine, declared that the Constitution required
							Congress to make both gold and silver coin the money of the land, and that the only
							question was how best to adjust the ratio. In a speech in the Senate on February 7,
							1878, Blaine said: "I believe then if Germany were to remonetize silver and the
							kingdoms and states of the Latin Union were to reopen their mints, silver would at
							once resume its former relation with gold. . . . I believe the struggle now going on
							in this country and in other countries for a single gold standard would, if
							successful, produce widespread disaster throughout the commercial world. The
							destruction of silver as money and establishment of gold as the sole unit of value
							must have a ruinous effect on all forms of property, except those
								investments which yield a fixed return in money."
						It was this exception made by Blaine that formed the crux of the whole issue. The
							contest was largely between creditors and debtors. Indeed, it is thus frankly stated
							by Senator Jones of Nevada in a speech in the Senate on May 12, 1890: "Three fourths
							of the business enterprises of this country are conducted on borrowed capital. Three
							fourths of the homes and farms that stand in the name of the actual occupants have
							been bought on time, and a very large proportion of them are mortgaged for the payment
							of some part of the purchase money. Under the operation of a shrinkage in the volume
							of money, this enormous mass of borrowers, at the maturity of their respective debts,
							though nominally paying no more than the amount borrowed, with interest, are, in
							reality, in the amount of the principal alone, returning a percentage of value  greater than they received--more in equity than they
							contracted to pay, and oftentimes more in substance than they profited by the loan. .
							. . It is a remarkable circumstance that throughout the entire range of economic
							discussion in gold-standard circles, it seems to be taken for granted that a change in
							the value of the money unit is a matter of no significance, and imports no mischief to
							society, so long as the change is in one direction. Who ever heard
							from an Eastern journal any complaint against a contraction of our money volume, any
							admonition that in a shrinking volume of money lurk evils of the utmost magnitude? . .
							. In all discussions of the subject the creditors attempt to brush aside the equities
							involved by sneering at the debtors." Both parties to the conflict assumed a monopoly
							of virtue and economic wisdom, and the controversy proceeded on that plane, with no
							concessions except where necessary to secure some practical gain.
						By 1877, silver had fallen to the ratio of seventeen to one as compared with gold,
							and silver mine owners were anxious to have the government buy their bullion at the
							old rate existing before the "demonetization" of 1873. In this they were supported by
							the farmers and the debtor classes generally, who thought that the gold market was
							substantially controlled by a relatively few financiers and that the appreciation of
							the yellow metal meant lower prices for their commodities and the maintenance of high
							interest rates. Criticism was leveled particularly against the bondholders, who
							demanded the payment of interest and principal in gold, in spite of the fact that, at
							the time the bonds were  issued, the government had not
							demonetized silver and could have paid in silver dollars containing 412½ grains each.
							In addition to the holders of the national debt, there were the owners of industrial,
							state, and municipal bonds and railway and other securities who likewise sought
							payment in a metal that was appreciating in value.
						In the Forty-fourth Congress, the silver party, led by Bland, of Missouri, attempted
							to force the passage of a law providing for the free and unlimited coinage of silver
							approximately at the ratio of sixteen to one, but their measure was amended on the
							motion of Allison, of Iowa, in the Senate, in such a manner as simply to authorize the
							Secretary of the Treasury to purchase not less than two million nor more than four
							million dollars' worth of silver each month to be coined into silver dollars. The
							measure thus amended was vetoed by Hayes, but was repassed over his protest and became
							a law in 1878, popularly known as the Bland-Allison Act. The opponents of contraction
							were able to secure the passage of another act in the same year forbidding the further
							retirement of legal tender notes and providing that the Treasury, instead of canceling
							such notes on receiving them, should reissue them and keep them in circulation.
						None of the disasters prophesied by the gold advocates followed the enactment of the
							Bland-Allison bill, but no one was satisfied with it. The value of silver as compared
							with gold steadily declined, until the ratio was twenty-two to one in 1887. The silver
							party claimed that the trouble was not with silver, but that the  appreciation of gold had been largely induced by the government's
							discriminating policy. The gold party pointed to the millions of silver dollars coined
							and unissued filling the mints and storage vaults to bursting, all for the benefit of
							the silver mine owners. The retort of the silver party was a law issuing silver
							certificates in denominations of one, two, and five dollars, in 1886. This was
							supplemented four years later by the Sherman silver purchase act of 1890 (repealed in
							1893), which provided for the purchase of 4,500,000 ounces of silver monthly and the
							issue of notes on that basis redeemable in gold or silver at the discretion of the
							Treasury. Congress took occasion to declare also that it was the intention of the
							United States to maintain the two metals on a parity--a vague phrase which was widely
							used by both parties to conciliate all factions. Neither the Republicans nor
							the Democrats were as yet ready for a straight party fight on the silver issue.
					
					
						Tariff Legislation
						At the opening of Hayes' administration the Civil War tariff was still in force. It
							is true, there had been some slight reduction in 1872, but this was offset by
							increases three years later. During the two decades following, there was much
							political controversy over protection, as we have seen, and there were three important
							revisions of the protective system: in 1883 on the initiation of the Senate, in 1890
							when the McKinley bill was passed, and in 1894 when the Wilson bill was enacted under
							Democratic auspices.


						
						The first of these revisions was induced largely by the growing surplus in the
							Federal Treasury and the inability of Congress to dispose of it, even by the most
							extravagant appropriations. In 1882, the surplus rose to the startling figure of
							$145,000,000, and a tariff commission was appointed to consider, among other things,
							some method of cutting down the revenues by a revision of duties. This commission
							reported a revised schedule of rates providing for considerable reductions, but still
							on a highly protective basis. The House at that time was Republican, and the Senate
							was equally divided, with two independents holding the balance of power. The upper
							house took the lead in the revision and escaped the constitutional provision requiring
							the initiation of revenue bills in the lower house by tacking their measure to a bill
							which the House had passed at the preceding session.
						Under the circumstances neither party was responsible for the measure, and it is
							small wonder that it pleased no one, after the fashion of tariff bills. There was a
							slight reduction on coarse woolens, cottons, iron, steel, and several other staple
							commodities, but not enough to place the industries concerned on a basis of
							competition with European manufactures. New England agricultural products were
							carefully protected, but the wool growers of Ohio and other middle western states lost
							the ad valorem duties on wool. The Democrats in the House denounced the measure, and
							most of them voted against it because, they alleged, it did not go far enough. William
							McKinley, of Ohio, then beginning his career, opposed it on other grounds; and Senator
								 Sherman from the same state afterward regretted that
							he had not defeated the bill altogether. The tariff was "revised but not changed," as
							a wag put it, and no one was enthusiastic about the measure.
						Almost immediately attempts were made to amend the law of 1883. For two years the
							Democrats, under the leadership of W. R. Morrison, chairman of the Ways and Means
							Committee, pottered about with the tariff, but accomplished nothing, partially on
							account of the opposition of protectionist Democrats, like Randall, of Pennsylvania.
							In 1886, President Cleveland, in his second message, took up the tariff seriously; and
							under the leadership of Roger Q. Mills, of Texas, the Democratic House, two years
							later, passed the "Mills bill" only to see it die in the Senate. The Republican
							victory of 1888, though narrow, was a warning that no compromise would be made with
							those who struck a blow at protection.
						The Republican House set to work upon a revision of the tariff with a view to
							establishing high protection, and in May, 1890, Mr. McKinley, chairman of the Ways and
							Means Committee, introduced his bill increasing the duties generally. In the
							preparation of this measure, the great manufacturing interests had been freely
							consulted, and their requests for rates were frequently accepted without change, or
							made the basis for negotiations with opposing forces, as in the case, for example, of
							the binding twine trust and the objecting farmers. On the insistence of Mr. Blaine,
							then Secretary of State, a "reciprocity" clause was introduced into the bill,
							authorizing the President to place higher  duties on
							certain commodities coming from other countries, in case he deemed their retaliatory
							tariffs "unreasonable or unjust."
						The opposition to the McKinley bill was unusually violent, and no opportunity was
							given to test its working before the country swung again to the Democrats in the
							autumn of 1890; but the Republican majority in the Senate prevented the House from
							carrying through any of its attacks on the system. The election of Cleveland two years
							later and the capture of the Senate as well by the Democrats seemed to promise that
							the long-standing threat of a general downward revision would be carried out. William
							Wilson, of West Virginia, reported the new bill from the Ways and Means Committee in
							December, 1893. Although it made numerous definite reductions in duties, it was by no
							means a drastic "free trade" measure, such as the Republicans had prophesied in their
							campaign speeches. The bill passed the House by a large majority, with only a few
							Democrats voting against it. Even radical Democrats from the West, who would have
							otherwise demanded further reductions, were conciliated by the provision for a tax on
							all incomes over $4000.
						When the Wilson bill left the House of Representatives, it had some of the
							appearances at least of a "tariff-for-revenue" measure. Reductions had been made all
							along the line, not without regard, of course, for sectional interests, in memory of
							the principle that the "tariff is a local issue." But the Senate made short work of
							it. There the individual member counted for more. He had the right to talk as long as
							he pleased,  and he could trade his vote on
							schedules in which he was not personally interested for votes on his own schedules.
							Thus by forceful and ingenious manipulation, the Wilson bill was shorn of its most
							drastic features (not without some rejoicing in the House as well as in the Senate),
							and it went to President Cleveland in such a form that he refused to accept it as a
							tariff reform measure and simply allowed it to become a law without his signature.
						The action of the Democratic Senate is easily accounted for. Hill, of New York, was
							almost rabid in his opposition to the income tax provision. Louisiana was a great
							sugar-growing state, and her Senators had their own notion as to what were the proper
							duties on sugar. Alabama had rising iron industries, and her Senators shared the
							emotions of the representatives from Pennsylvania as the proposed reductions on iron
							products were contemplated. Senator Gorman, of Maryland, had no more heart in
							"attacking the interests" than did Senator Quay, of Pennsylvania, who, by the way,
							used his "inside information" during the passage of the bill to make money by
							speculating in sugar stocks.
						With glee the Republicans taunted the Democrats that their professions were one thing
							and their performances another. "This is not a protective bill," said Senator O. H.
							Platt, of Connecticut. "It is not in any sense a recognition of the doctrine of
							protection high or low. It is not a bill for revenue with incidental protection. It is
							a bill (and the truth may as well be told in the Senate of the United States) which
							proceeds upon free trade principles, except as to such articles as it has  been necessary to levy protective duties upon to get the
							votes of the Democratic Senators to pass the bill. . . . No such marvel has ever been
							seen under the sun as all the Democratic Senators, with the possible exception of the
							Senator from Texas (Mr. Mills), giving way to this demand of the sugar trust. How this
							chamber has rung with the denunciations of the sugar trust! How the ears of waiting
							and listening multitudes in Democratic political meetings have been vexed with
							reiterated denunciations of this sugar trust! And here every Democratic Senator, with
							one exception, is ready to vote for a prohibitive duty upon refined sugar."
						Twenty years of tariff agitation and tinkering had thus ended in general
							dissatisfaction with the promises and performances of both parties. The Republicans
							had advanced to a position of high protection based principally upon the demands of
							manufacturing interests themselves, modified by such protests on the part of consumers
							as became vocal and effective in politics. The Democrats had been driven, under Mr.
							Cleveland's leadership, to what seemed to be a disposition to reduce the tariff to
							something approaching a revenue basis, but when it came to an actual performance,
							their practical views, as manifested in the Wilson-Gorman act, were not far behind
							those of the opposing party. Representatives of both parties talked as if the issue
							was a contest between tariff-for-revenue and protection, but in fact it was not. The
							question was really, "which of the several regions shall receive the most protection?"
							Of attempts to get the tariff upon a "scientific basis," striking a balance among all
							the interests of the country,  there was none. Ten years
							of political warfare over free silver and imperialism were to elapse before there
							could be a renewed examination of protection as a system.
					
					
						The Civil Service Law of 1883
						The "spoils system" of making Federal offices the reward for partisan services began
							to draw a strong fire of criticism in Grant's first administration. It was natural
							that the Democrats should view with disfavor a practice which excluded them entirely
							from serving their country in an official capacity, and the reformers regarded it as a
							menace to American institutions because it was the basis of a "political machine"
							which controlled primaries and elections and shut out the discussion of real
							issues. In response to this combined attack, Congress passed in 1871 a law authorizing
							the President to prescribe regulations for admission to the civil service and provide
							methods for ascertaining the fitness of candidates--a law which promised well while
							the distinguished champion of reform, George William Curtis, was head of the board in
							charge of its administration. Congress, however, had accepted the reform reluctantly
							and refused to give it adequate financial support. After two years' experience with
							the law, Curtis resigned, and within a short time the whole scheme fell to the
							ground.
						The reformers, however, did not give up hope, for they were sufficiently strong to
							compel the respect of the Democrats, and the latter, by their insistence on a reform
							that cost them nothing, forced the Republicans  to give
							the merit system some prominence in their campaign promises. But practical politicians
							in both parties had small esteem for a plan that would take away the incentive to work
							for victory on the part of their followers. It was scornfully called "snivel service"
							and "goody-goody reform" ; and the old practices of distributing offices to henchmen
							and raising campaign funds by heavy assessments on office-holders were continued.
						Never was the spoils system more odious than when the assassination of Garfield by a
							disappointed office hunter startled the country from its apathy. Within a year, a
							Senate committee had reported favorably on a civil service reform bill. It declared
							that the President had to wear his life out giving audiences to throngs of beggars who
							besieged the executive mansion, and that the spectacle of the chief magistrate of the
							nation dispensing patronage to "a hungry, clamorous, crowding, and jostling multitude"
							was humiliating to the patriotic citizen. And with the Congressman the system "is ever
							present. When he awakes in the morning it is at his door, and when he retires at night
							it haunts his chamber. It goes before him, it follows after him, and it meets him on
							the way." The only relief, concluded the report, was to be found in a thoroughgoing
							merit system of appointing civil servants.
						At length in 1883 Congress passed the civil service act authorizing, but not
							commanding, the President to appoint a commission and extend the merit system to
							certain Federal offices. The commission was to be composed of three members, not more
							than two of the  same party, appointed by the President
							and Senate, and was charged with the duty of aiding the President, at his request, in
							preparing suitable rules for competitive examinations designed to test the fitness
							of applicants for offices in the public service, already classified or to be
							classified by executive order or by further legislation. The act itself brought a
							few offices under the merit system, but it left the extension of the principle largely
							to the discretion of the President. When the law went into force, it applied only to
							about 14,000 positions, but it was steadily extended, particularly by retiring
							Presidents anxious to secure the jobs already held by their partisans or to improve
							the efficiency of the service. Neither Cleveland nor Harrison enforced the law to the
							satisfaction of the reformers, for the pressure of the office seekers, particularly
							under Cleveland's first administration, was almost irresistible.
					
					
						Railway and Trust Regulation
						In the beginning of the railway era in the United States, Congress made no attempt to
							devise a far-sighted plan of public control, but negligently devoted its attention to
							granting generous favors to railways. It was not until the stock-watering,
							high-financing, discriminations and rebates had disgraced the country that Congress
							was moved to act. It is true that President Grant in his message of 1872 recommended,
							and a Senate committee approved, a comprehensive plan for regulating railways, but
							there was no practical outcome. The railway interests were too strong in  Congress to permit the enactment of any drastic
							regulatory laws. But at length the Granger movement, which had produced during the
							seventies so much railway regulation in the States,1 appeared in Congress, and stirred by a long report by a
							Senate committee enumerating a terrifying list of abuses against shippers
							particularly, Congress passed, in 1887, the first important interstate commerce
							law.
						This act was a timid, halting measure, and the Supreme Court almost immediately
							sheared away its effectiveness by decisions in favor of the railway companies. The law
							created a commission of five members empowered to investigate the operations of common
							carriers and order those who violated the law to desist. The act itself forbade
							discriminations in rates, pooling traffic, and the charging of more for "short" than
							"long hauls" over the same line, except under special circumstances. In spite of the
							good intentions of the commission, the law was practically a dead letter. According to
							a careful scholar, Professor Davis R. Dewey, "By 1890 the practice of cut rates to
							favored shippers and cities was all but universal at the West; passes were generally
							issued; rebates were charged up to maintenance of way account; special privileges of
							yardage, loading, and cartage were granted; freight was underbilled or carried under a
							wrong classification and secret notification of intended reduction of rates was made
							to favored shippers. . . . The ingenuity of officials in breaking the spirit of the
							law knew no limit, and is a discouraging commentary on the dishonesty 1 See above, p. 167.
							 which had penetrated into the heart of business 
								enterprise."1
						The critics of railway policy who were able to force the passage of the interstate
							commerce act usually coupled the denunciation of the industrial monopolies with their
							attacks on common carriers; and, three years after the establishment of the interstate
							commerce commission, Congress, feeling that some kind of action was demanded by the
							political situation, passed the Sherman anti-trust law of 1890. There was no consensus
							of opinion among the political leaders as to the significance of the trust. Blaine
							declared that "trusts were largely a private affair with which neither the President
							nor any private citizen had any particular right to interfere." Speaker Reed dismissed
							the subject by announcing that he had heard "more idiotic raving, more pestiferous
							rant, on that subject than on all others put together." Judge Cooley, on seeing "the
							utterly heartless manner in which the trusts sometimes have closed many factories and
							turned men willing to be industrious into the streets in order that they may increase
							profits already reasonably large," asked whether the trust "as we see it is not a
							public enemy; whether it is not teaching the laborer dangerous lessons; whether it is
							not helping to breed anarchy."
						In the midst of this general confusion of opinion on the trust, it is not surprising
							that Congress in the Sherman law of 1890 enunciated no clear principles. Apparently it
							intended to restore competition by declaring illegal "every contract, combination in
							the form of trust or 1
								National Problems, p. 103.
							 otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or
							commerce among the several states or with foreign nations." But a study of the debates
							over the law fails to show any consistent opinion as to what combinations were
							included within the prohibition or as to the exact meaning of "restraint of trade."
							Of course, the lawyers pointed at once to the simplicity, of the old common law
							doctrine that conspiracies in restraint of trade are illegal, but this was an answer
							in verbiage which gave no real clew to concrete forms of restraint under the complex
							conditions of modern life.
						The vagueness of the Sherman anti-trust law was a subject of remark during its
							passage through Congress. O.H. Platt, in the Senate, criticized the bill as attacking
							all combinations, no matter what their practices or forms. "I believe," he said, "that
							every man in business--I do not care whether he is a farmer, a laborer, a miner, a
							sailor, manufacturer, a merchant--has a right, a legal and a moral right, to obtain a
							fair profit upon his business and his work; and if he is driven by fierce competition
							to a spot where his business is unremunerative, I believe it is his right to combine
							for the purpose of raising prices until they shall be fair and remunerative. This bill
							makes no distinction. It says that every combination which has the effect in any way
							to advance prices is illegal and void. . . . The theory of this bill is that prices
							must never be advanced by two or more persons, no matter how ruinously low they may
							be. That theory I denounce as utterly untenable, as immoral."
						Senator Platt then went on to say that the whole 
							subject had not been adequately considered and that the bill was a piece of politics,
							not of statesmanship. "I am sorry, Mr. President," he continued, "that we have not had
							a bill which had been carefully prepared, which had been thoughtfully prepared, which
							had been honestly prepared, to meet the object which we all desire to meet. The
							conduct of the Senate for the past three days--and I make no personal allusions--has
							not been in the line of the honest preparation of a bill to prohibit and punish
							trusts. It has been in the line of getting some bill with that title that we might go
							to the country with. The questions of whether the bill would be operative, of how it
							would operate, or whether it was within the power of Congress to enact it, have been
							whistled down the wind in this Senate as idle talk, and the whole effort has been to
							get some bill headed: 'A Bill to Punish Trusts,' with which to go to the country."
						Senator Hoar, who claimed that he was the author of the Sherman anti-trust law, says,
							however, that the act was not directed against all combinations in
							business. "It was expected," he says, "that the court in administering that law would
							confine its operations to cases which are contrary to the policy of the law, treating
							the words 'agreements in restraint of trade' as having a technical meaning, such as
							they are supposed to have in England. The Supreme Court of the United States went in
							this particular farther than was expected1. . . It has not been carried to its full extent since, and
							I think will never be held to prohibit those lawful and 1 See below, p. 332.
							 harmless combinations which have been permitted in this
							country and in England without complaint, like contracts of partnership, which are
							usually considered harmless."
						The immediate effects of the Sherman anti-trust law were wholly negligible. Seven of
							the eight judicial decisions under the law during Harrison's administration were
							against the government, and no indictment of offenders against the law went so far as
							a trial. During Cleveland's second term the law was a dead letter. Meanwhile trusts
							and combinations continued to multiply.
					
					
						The Income Tax Law of 1894
						In the debates over tariff reduction, silver, and paper money, evidences of group and
							class conflicts were almost constantly apparent, but it was not until the enactment of
							the income tax provision of 1894 that political leaders of national standing frankly
							avowed a class purpose--the shifting of a portion of the burden of national taxes from
							the commodities consumed by the poor to the incomes of the rich.
						The movement for an income tax found its support especially among the farmers of the
							West and South and the working classes of the great cities. The demand for it had been
							appearing for some time in the platforms of the agrarian and labor parties. The
							National or Greenback party, in its platform of 1884, demanded "a graduated income
							tax" and "a wise revision of the tariff laws with a view to raising revenues from
							luxury  rather than necessity." The Anti-monopoly party,
							in the same year, demanded, "a graduated income tax and a tariff, which is a tax upon
							the people, that shall be so levied as to bear as lightly as possible upon nec-
							necessaries. We denounce the present tariff as being largely in the interest of
							monopolies and demand that it be speedily and radically reformed in the interest of
							labor instead of capital." The Union Labor convention at Cincinnati in 1888 declared
							in its platform: "A graduated income tax is the most equitable system of taxation,
							placing the burden of government upon those who can best afford to pay, instead of
							laying it upon the farmers and producers and exempting millionaire bondholders and
							corporations."
						In the campaign of 1892, the demand for an income tax was made by the Populist party
							and by the Socialist Labor party. The former frankly declared war on the rich,
							proclaiming in its platform that, "The fruits of the toil of millions are boldly
							stolen to build up colossal fortunes for a few, unprecedented in the history of
							mankind; and the possessors of these, in turn, despise the republic and endanger
							liberty." Among the remedies for this dire condition of things the Populists demanded
							"a graduated income tax." The Democrats, at their convention of that year, denounced
							the McKinley tariff law "as the culminating atrocity of class legislation," and
							declared that "The Federal government has no constitutional power to impose and
							collect tariff duties except for the purpose of revenue only."
						When it was discovered in the ensuing election that the Democratic party, with its
							low tariff pronunciamento  was victorious, and that the
							Populists with their radical platform had carried four western states and polled more
							than a million votes, shrewd political observers saw that some revision in the revenue
							system of the Federal government was imperative. President Cleveland, in his message
							of December, 1893, in connection with the recommendation for a revision of the tariff,
							stated that, "the committee . . . have wisely embraced in their plans a few additional
							revenue taxes, including a small tax upon incomes derived from certain corporate
							investments." It is not clear what committee the President had in mind, and Senator
							Hill declared that the Ways and Means Committee had not agreed "upon any income tax or
							other internal taxation" ; although it had undoubtedly been considering the subject in
							connection with the revision of the tariff.
						When the tariff bill was introduced in Congress, on December 19, 1893, it contained
							no provision for an income tax, and it was not until January 29 that an income tax
							amendment to the Wilson bill was introduced in behalf of the Committee. In defending
							his amendment, the mover, Mr. McMillin, declared that the purpose of the tax was to
							place a small per cent of the enormous Federal burden "upon the accumulated wealth of
							the country instead of placing all upon the consumption of the people." He announced
							that they did not come there in any spirit of antagonism to wealth, that they did not
							intend to put an undue embargo upon wealth, but that they did intend to make
							accumulated wealth pay some share of the expenses of the government. The tariff, in
							his opinion, taxed want, not wealth.  He was impatient
							with the hue and cry that was raised, "when it is proposed to shift this burden from
							those who cannot bear it to those who can ; to divide it between consumption and
							wealth; to shift it from the laborer who has nothing but his power to toil and sweat
							to the man who has a fortune made or inherited." The protective tariff, he added, had
							made colossal fortunes by levying tribute upon the many for the enrichment of the few;
							and yet the advocates of an income tax were told that this accumulated wealth was a
							sacred thing which should go untaxed forever. In announcing this determination to tax
							the rich, Mr. McMillin disclaimed any intention of waging a class war, by declaring
							that the income tax, in his opinion, would "diminish the antipathy that now exists
							between the classes," and sweep away the ground for that "iconoclastic complaint which
							finds expression in violence and threatens the very foundations upon which our whole
							institution rests."
						The champions of property against this proposal to tax incomes in order to relieve
							the burden upon consumption summoned every device of oratory and argument to their
							aid. They ridiculed and denounced, and endeavored to conjure up before Congress
							horrible visions of want, anarchy, socialism, ruin, and destruction. J. H. Walker, of
							Massachusetts, declared that, "The income tax takes from the wealth of the thrifty and
							the enterprising and gives to the shifty and the sluggard." Adams, of Pennsylvania,
							found the income tax "utterly distasteful in its moral and political aspects, a piece
							of class legislation, a tax upon the thrifty, and a reward to dishonesty.". In the
							Senate, where there is  supposed to be more sobriety,
							the execrations heaped upon the income tax proposal were marked by even more
							virulence. Senator Hill declared that, "The professors with their books, the
							socialists with their schemes, the anarchists with their bombs, are instructing the
							people of the United States in the organization of society, the doctrines of
							democracy, and the principles of taxation. No wonder if their preaching can find ears
							in the White House." In his opinion, also, the income tax was an "insidious and deadly
							assault upon state rights, state powers, and state independence." Senator Sherman
							particularly objected to the high exemption, declaring, "In a republic like ours,
							where all men are equal, this attempt to array the rich against the poor, or the poor
							against the rich, is socialism, communism, devilism."
						In spite of this vigorous opposition, the House passed the provision by a vote of 204
							to 140 and the Senate by a vote of 39 to 34. In its final form the law imposed a tax
							of two per cent on all incomes above $4000--an exemption under which the farmer and
							the lower middle class escaped almost entirely. Cleveland did not like a general
							income tax, and he was dissatisfied with the Wilson tariff bill to which the tax
							measure was attached. He, therefore, allowed it to go into effect without his
							signature.
					
					
						Labor Legislation
						The only measures directly in the interests of labor generally passed during this
							period were the Chinese  exclusion act, the law creating
							a labor bureau at Washington, and the prohibition of the importation of alien
							workingmen under contract. Shortly after the Civil War, protests were heard against
							cheap Chinese labor, not only in the western states, but also in the East, where
							manufacturers were beginning to employ coolies to break strikes and crush unions. At
							length, early in 1882, Congress passed a measure excluding Chinese laborers for a
							period of twenty years, the Republicans from the eastern districts voting generally
							against it. President Arthur vetoed the bill, holding in particular that it was a
							violation of treaty provisions with China, and suggested a limitation of the
							application of the principle to ten years. This was accepted by Congress, and the law
							went into force in August of that year. More stringent identification methods were
							later applied to returning Chinese, and in 1892, the application of the principle of
							exclusion was further extended for a term of ten years. In 1884, a Federal bureau of
							labor statistics was created to collect information upon problems of labor and
							capital. In 1885, Congress passed a law prohibiting the importation of laborers under
							contract, which was supplemented by later legislation.1
							1 In 1887, Congress
								enacted a law providing for counting the electoral vote in presidential elections.
								This measure grew out of the disputed election of 1876.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER VI
						THE GROWTH OF DISSENT
					IMPORTANT as was the legislation described in the preceding chapter,
						there were sources of discontent which it could not, in the nature of things, dry up.
						With the exception of the income tax, there had been no decisive effort to placate the
						poorer sections of the population by distinct class legislation. It is true, the alien
						contract labor law and the Chinese exclusion act were directed particularly to the
						working class, but their effects were not widely felt.
					The accumulation of vast fortunes, many of which were gained either by fraudulent
						manipulations, or shady transactions within the limits of the law but condemned by
						elementary morals, and the massing of millions of the proletariat in the great
						industrial cities were bound in the long run to bring forth political cleavages as deep
						as the corresponding social cleavage. The domination of the Federal government by the
						captains of machinery and capital was destined to draw out a counter movement on the
						part of the small farmers, the middle class, and the laborers. Mutterings of this
						protest were heard in the seventies; it broke forth in the Populist and Socialist
						movement in the nineties; it was voiced in the Democratic campaign of 1896; silenced  awhile by a wave of imperialism, it began to work a
						transformation in all parties at the opening of the new century.
					This protest found its political expression in the organization of "third" or minor
						parties. The oldest and most persistent of all these groups is the Prohibitionist party,
						which held its first national convention at Columbus, Ohio, in 1872, and nominated Mr.
						Black, of Pennsylvania, as its candidate. In its platform, it declared the suppression
						of the liquor traffic to be the leading issue, but it also proposed certain currency
						reforms and the regulation of transportation companies and monopolies.
					Although their popular vote in 1872 was less than six thousand, the Prohibitionists
						returned to their issue at each succeeding campaign with Spartan firmness, but their
						gains were painfully slow. They reached 9522 in 1876, and 10,305 in 1880. In the
						campaign of 1884, when many Republicans were dissatisfied with the nomination of Blaine,
						and unwilling to follow Curtis and Schurz into the Democratic camp, the Prohibition vote
						rose to 150,369. A further gain of nearly one hundred thousand votes in the next
						election, to which a slight addition was made in 1892, encouraged the Prohibitionists to
						hope that the longed-for "split" had come, and they frightened the Republican
						politicians into considering concessions, especially in the states where the temperance
						party held the balance of power. In fact, in their platform of 1892 the Republicans
						announced in a non-committal fashion that they 
						sympathized with "all wise and legitimate efforts to lessen and prevent the evils of
						intemperance and promote morality." The scare was unwarranted, however, for the
						Prohibition party had about reached its high-water mark. Being founded principally on
						one moral issue and making no appeal to any fundamental economic divisions, it could not
						make headway against the more significant social issues, and its strength was further
						reduced by the growth of state and local prohibition.
					Almost immediately after the Civil War, labor entered politics in a small way on its
						own account. In 1872, a party known as the "Labor Reformers" held a national convention
						at Columbus which was attended by delegates from seventeen states. It declared in favor
						of restricting the sale of public lands to homesteaders, Chinese exclusion, an
						eight-hour day in government employments, civil service reform, one term for each
						President, regulation of railway and telegraph rates, and the subjection of the military
						to the civil authorities. The party nominated Justice Davis, who had been appointed to
						the Supreme Court of the United States by Lincoln and had shown Populist leanings
						immediately after the War; but Mr. Davis declined to serve, and O'Connor of New York, to
						whom the place was then tendered, only polled about 29,000 votes.
					This early labor party was simply a party of mild protest. It originated in
						Massachusetts, where there had been a number of serious labor disputes and a certain
						shoe manufacturer had imported a carload of Chinese to operate his machinery. Although
						Wendell Phillips,  who had declared the emancipation of
						labor to be the next great issue after the emancipation of slaves, was prominently
						identified with it and stood next to Justice Davis on the first poll in the convention,
						the party as a whole manifested no tendency to open a distinct class struggle, and the
						leading planks of its program were shortly accepted by both of the old parties.
					Standing upon such a temporary platform, and unsupported by any general philosophy of
						politics, the labor reform party inevitably went to pieces. Its dissolution was
						facilitated by the rise of an agrarian party, the Greenbackers, who, in their platform
						of 1880, were more specific and even more extensive in their declaration of labor's
						rights than the "Reformers" themselves had been. It was not until 1888 that another
						"labor" group appeared, but since that date there has been one or more parties making a
						distinct appeal to the working class. In that year, there were two "labor" factions, the
						Union Labor party and the United Labor party. Both groups came out for the public
						ownership of the means of transportation and communication and a code of enlightened
						labor legislation. The former advocated the limitation of land ownership and the latter
						the application of the single tax. Both agreed in denouncing the "Democratic and
						Republican parties as hopelessly and shamelessly corrupt, and, by reason of their
						affiliation with monopolies, equally unworthy of the suffrages of those who do not live
						upon public plunder." The vote of both groups in the ensuing election was slightly over
						150,000.
					The labor groups which had broken with the old  parties
						took a more definite step toward socialism in 1892, when they frankly assumed the name
						of the Socialist Labor party 1
						and put forward a declaration in favor of the public ownership of utilities and a
						general system of protective labor legislation. Although the socialism of Karl Marx had
						by this time won a wide influence among the working classes of Europe, there are few if
						any traces of it in the Socialist Labor platform of 1892. That platform says nothing
						about the inevitable contest between labor and capitalism, or about the complete
						public ownership of all the means of transportation and production. On the contrary, it
						confines its statements to concrete propositions, including the political reforms of the
						initiative, referendum, and recall, all of which have since been advocated by leaders in
						the old parties. The small vote received in 1892 by the socialistic candidate, 21,532,
						is no evidence of the strength of the labor protest, for the Populist party in that year
						included in its program substantially the same principles and made a distinct appeal to
						the working class, as well as to the farmers.
					Indeed, the discontent of the two decades from 1876 to 1896 was confined principally to
						the small farmers, who waged, in fact, a class war upon capitalists and financiers,
						although they nowhere formulated it into a philosophy. They chose to rely upon the
						inflation of the currency as their chief weapon of offense. A precursor to the agrarian
						movement in politics is to be found in the "Granger Movement," which began with the
						formation of an 1See below,
							p. 296.
						 association known as the "Patrons of Husbandry" in 1867.
						This society, which organized local lodges on a secret basis and admitted both men and
						women, was originally designed to promote agricultural interests in a general and social
						way, and its political implications were not at first apparent. It naturally appealed,
						however, to the most active and socially minded farmers, and its leaders soon became
						involved in politics.
					The sources of agrarian discontent were obvious. During the War, prices had been high
						and thousands of farm "hands" and mechanics had become land owners, thanks to the
						homestead laws enacted by the Republican party; but they had little capital to start
						with, and their property was heavily mortgaged. When the inflated War prices collapsed,
						they found themselves compelled to pay interest at the old rate, and they figured it out
						that capitalists and bondholders were the chief beneficiaries of the Federal financial
						legislation. In spite of all that had been paid on the national and private debts, the
						amount still due, they reckoned, measured in the products of toil, wheat and corn, was
						greater than ever. They, therefore, hit on the conclusion that the chief source of
						trouble was in the contraction of the currency which reduced the money value of their
						products. The remedy obviously was inflation in some form.1
					While the currency thus became the chief agrarian issue, the farmers attributed a part
						of their troubles to the railway companies whose heavily "watered" capital made high
						freight rates necessary, and whose discriminations 1 See above, p. 121.
						 in charges fell as heavy burdens on shippers outside of
						the zones of competition. The agrarians, therefore, resorted to railway legislation in
						their respective states--the regulation of rates and charges for transportation and the
						conditions under which grain should be warehoused and handled. In Illinois, Iowa,
						Wisconsin, and other states, the law makers yielded to the pressure of the farmers for
						this kind of legislative relief, and based their legal contentions on the ground that
						the railways "partook of the nature of public highways." The Grangers were strengthened
						in their convictions by the violence of the opposition offered on the part of the
						railways to the establishment of rates and charges by public authority, and by their
						constant appeals to the courts for relief.1
					Of course, the fixing of flat rates without any inquiry into the cost of specific
						services was open to grave objections; but the opposition of the companies was generally
						based on the contention that they had a right to run their business in their own way.
						The spirit of this opposition is reflected in an editorial published in the Nation, of New York, in January, 1875: "We maintain that the principle of such
						legislation is either confiscation, or, if another phrase be more agreeable, the change
						of railroads from pieces of private property, owned and managed for the benefit of those
						who have invested their money in them, into eleemosynary or charitable corporations,
						managed for the benefit of a particular class of applicants for outdoor relief--the
						farmers. If, in the era of progress to which the farmers' 1 See above, pp. 67 ff.
						 movement proposes to introduce us, we are going back to a
						condition of society in which the only sort of property which we can call our own is
						that which we can make our own by physical possession, it is certainly important to
						every one to know it, and the only body which can really tell us is the Supreme Court at
						Washington."
					Not content with their achievements in the state legislatures, the agrarians entered
						national politics in 1876 in the form of the Independent National or Greenback party,
						designed to "stop the present suicidal and destructive policy of contraction." They
						declared their belief that "a United States note, issued directly by the government and
						convertible on demand into United States obligations, bearing a rate of interest not
						exceeding one cent a day on each one hundred dollars and exchangeable for United States
						notes at par, will afford the best circulating medium ever devised." In spite of the
						small vote polled by their standard bearer, Peter Cooper, of New York, they put forward
						a candidate in the next campaign1
						and made a third attempt in 1884, growing more and more radical in tone. In their last
						year, they declared: "Never in our history have the banks, the land-grant railroads, and
						other monopolies been more insolent in their demands for further privileges--still more
						class legislation. In this emergency the dominant parties are arrayed against the people
						and are the abject tools of the corporate monopolies." The Greenbackers demanded, in
							1They polled about a
							million votes in the congressional elections of 1878.
						 addition to currency reform, the regulation of interstate
						commerce, a graduated income tax, labor legislation, prohibition of importation of
						contract laborers, and the reduction of the terms of United States Senators. Although
						their candidate, B. F. Butler, polled 175,000 votes in 1884, the Greenbackers gave up
						the contest, and in 1888 yielded their place to the Union Labor party.
					The agrarian interest was, however, still the chief source of conscious discontent, and
						the disappearance of the Greenbackers was shortly followed by the establishment of two
						societies, the National Farmers' Alliance and Industrial Union and the National Farmers'
						Alliance, the former strong in the South and West, and the latter in the North. In 1890,
						these orders claimed over three million members, and in several of the southern states
						they had dominated or split the Democratic party. The Northern Alliance was likewise
						busy with politics, and in Kansas and Nebraska, by independence or fusion, carried a
						large number of legislative districts.
					Although professing to be non-political in the beginning, the leaders of these
						alliances called a national convention at Omaha in 1892 and put forth the most radical
						platform that had yet appeared in American politics. It declared that the newspapers
						were subsidized, corruption dominated the ballot box, homes were covered with mortgages,
						labor was impoverished and tyrannized over by a hireling standing army, and the nation
						stood on the verge of ruin. "The fruits of the toils of millions," runs the platform,
						"are boldly stolen to build up colossal fortunes for a few, unprecedented  in the history of mankind; and the possessors of these in
						turn despise the republic and endanger liberty. From the same prolific womb of
						governmental injustice we breed two classes of tramps and millionaires." Their demands
						included the free coinage of silver, a graduated income tax, postal-savings banks,
						government ownership of railways, telegraph and telephones; they declared their sympathy
						with organized labor in its warfare for better conditions and its struggle against "Pin-
						"Pinkerton hirelings"; and they commended the initiative, referendum, and popular
						election of United States Senators. On this program, the Populists polled over a million
						votes and captured twenty-two presidential electors. Evidently the indifference of the
						old parties to such issues could not remain undisturbed much longer.
					Fuel was added to the discontent in the spring of 1895, when the Supreme Court declared
						null and void the income tax law of the previous year.1 The opponents of the tax, having lost in the Congress, made
						their last stand in the highest Federal tribunal, and marshaled on their side an array
						of legal talent seldom seen in an action at law, including Senator Edmunds, Mr. Joseph
						H. Choate, and other attorneys prominently identified with railway and corporation
						litigation. No effort was spared in bringing pressure to bear on the Court, and no
						arguments, legal, political, and social, were neglected in the attempt to impress upon
						the Court the importance of stopping Populism by a judicial pronunciamento. Conservative
						New York papers, like the 1See above, p. 137.
						
						Herald, boldly prophesied in the summer of 1894 that "the income tax
						will be blotted from the statute books before the people are cursed with its
						inquisitorial enforcement."
					No easy victory lay before the opponents of the income tax, for the law seemed to be
						against them. In 1870, the Supreme Court had upheld the Civil War income tax without a
						dissenting voice, and had distinctly said: "Our conclusions are that direct taxes,
						within the meaning of the Constitution, are only capitation taxes as expressed in that
						instrument and taxes on real estate, and that the tax of which the plaintiff in error
						complains [the income tax] is within the category of an excise or duty." Of course, the
						terms of the new law were not identical with those of the Civil War measure, and the
						Supreme Court had been known to reverse itself.
					The attorneys against the tax left no stone unturned. As Professor Seligman remarks,
						"Some of the important financial interests now engaged a notable array of eminent
						counsel to essay the arduous task of persuading the Supreme Court that it might declare
						the income tax a direct tax without reversing its previous decisions. The effort was
						made with the most astonishing degree of ability and ingenuity, and the briefs and
						arguments of the opposing counsel fill several large volumes. . . . The counsel's
						arguments abound in historical errors and economic inaccuracies. . . . Errors and
						misstatements which might be multiplied pale into insignificance compared with the
						misinterpretation put upon the origin and purpose of the direct-tax clause--a
						misinterpretation which like most of the preceding mistakes was bodily adopted by the majority of the Court, who evidently found no time
						for an independent investigation of the subject." Having exhausted their ingenuity in
						the matter of technicalities and imposing historical and economic and legal arguments,
						the counsel appealed to every class fear and prejudice that might be entertained by the
						Court.
					The introduction of the passions of a social conflict into what purported to be a legal
						contest was intrusted to Mr. Choate. He threatened the Court with the declaration that
						if it approved the law, and "the communistic march" went on, a still higher exemption of
						$20,000 might be made and a rate of 20 per cent imposed--a highly important statement,
						but one that had no connection with the question whether an income tax was a direct tax.
						"There is protection now or never," he exclaimed. The very keystone of civilization, he
						continued, was the preservation of the rights of private property, and this fundamental
						principle was scattered to the winds by the champions of the tax. Mr. Choate concluded
						by warning the Court not to pay any attention to the popular passions enlisted on the
						side of the law, and urged it not to hesitate in declaring the law unconstitutional, "no
						matter what the threatened consequences of popular or populistic wrath may be."
					The Court was evidently moved by the declamation of Mr. Choate, for Justice Field, in
						his opinion, replied in kind. "The present assault upon capital," he said, "is but the
						beginning. It will be but the stepping stone to others larger and more sweeping till our
						political conditions will become a war of the poor against the  rich; a war growing in intensity and bitterness." If such a law were upheld,
						he gravely announced, boards of walking delegates would be fixing tax rates in the near
						future. Mr. Justice Harlan, in his dissenting opinion, however, replied in behalf of the
						populace by saying: "The practical effect of the decision to-day is to give certain
						kinds of property a position of favoritism and advantage inconsistent with the
						fundamental principles of our social organization, and to invest them with power and
						influence that may be perilous to that portion of the American people upon whom rests
						the larger part of the burdens of government and who ought not to be subjected to the
						dominion of aggregated wealth any more than the property of the country should be at the
						mercy of the lawless."
					At the best, the nullification of the income tax law was not an easy task. There were
						eight justices on the bench when the decision of the Court was handed down on April 8,
						1895. All of them agreed that the law was unconstitutional in so far as it laid a tax on
						revenues derived from state and municipal bonds; five of them agreed that a tax on rent
						or income from land was a direct tax and hence unconstitutional unless apportioned among
						the states on the basis of population--which was obviously impolitic; and the Court
						stood four to four on the important point as to the constitutionality of taxes on
						incomes derived from mortgages, interest, and personal property generally. The decision
						of the Court was thus inconclusive on the only point that interested capitalists
						particularly, and it was so regarded by the Eastern press.




					
					On April 9, the day following the decision of the Court, the New York Sun declared: "Twice in great national crises the Supreme Court of the United
						States has failed to meet the expectations of the people or to justify its existence as
						the ultimate tribunal of right and law. In both instances the potent consideration has
						been neither right nor law, but the supposed demands of political expediency. . . .
						Yesterday the failure of the Supreme Court to decide the main question of
						constitutionality submitted to it was brought about by political considerations. It was
						not Democracy against Republicanism as before, but Populism and Clevelandism against
						Democracy, and the vote was four to four." The Tribune, on April 10,
						declared that "the Court reached a finding which is as near an abdication of its power
						to interpret the Constitution and a confession of its unfitness for that duty as
						anything well can be."
					In view of the unsatisfactory condition created by its decision, the Court consented to
						a rehearing, and, on May 20, 1895, added its opinion that the tax on incomes from
						personal property was also a direct tax, thus bringing the whole law to the ground by a
						vote of five to four. Justice Jackson, who was ill when the first decision was made, had
						in the meantime returned to the bench, and he was strongly in favor of declaring the law
						constitutional. Had the Court stood as before, the personal property income tax would
						have been upheld, but one Justice, who had sustained this particular provision in
						the first case, was induced to change his views and vote against it on the final count.
						Thus by a narrow vote of five to four, brought about by a Justice  who changed his mind within the period of a few days, all of the essential
						parts of the income tax law were declared null and void.
					The temper of the country over the affair was well manifested in the press comments on
						the last decision. The New York Sun, which had roundly denounced the
						Court in the first instance, now joined in a chorus of praise: "In a hundred years the
						Supreme Court of the United States has not rendered a decision more important in its
						immediate effect or reaching further in its consequences than that which the Sun records this morning. There is life left in the institutions which
						the founders of this republic devised and constructed. There is a safe future for the
						national system under which we were all born and have lived and prospered according to
						individual capacity. The wave of socialistic revolution has gone far, but it breaks at
						the foot of the ultimate bulwark set up for protection of our liberties. Five to four,
						the court stands like a rock."
					The Tribune, on May 24, added: "The more the people study the
						influences behind this attempt to bring about a communistic revolution in modes of
						taxation, the more clearly they will realize that it was an essential part of the
						distinctly un-American and unpatriotic attempt to destroy the American policy of defense
						for home industries, in the interest of foreigners. . . . Thanks to the Court, our
						government is not to be dragged into communistic warfare against rights of property and
						the rewards of industry while the Constitution of its founders remains a bulwark of the
						rights of states and of individual citizens."




					
					The New York World, on the other hand, which had so stoutly
						championed the tax in behalf of "the masses," represented the decision of the Court as
						"the triumph of selfishness over patriotism. It is another victory of greed over need.
						Great and rich corporations, by hiring the ablest lawyers in the land and fighting
						against a petty tax upon superfluity as other men have fought for their liberties and
						their lives, have secured the exemption of wealth from paying its just share towards the
						support of the government that protects it. . . . The people at large will bow to this
						decision as they habitually do to all the decrees of their highest courts. But they will
						not accept law as justice. No dictum or decision of any wrong can make wrong right, and
						it is not right that the entire cost of the Federal government shall rest upon
						consumption. . . . Equity demands that citizens shall contribute to the support of the
						government with some regard to benefits received and ability to pay."
					Although the conservative elements saw in the annulment of the income tax nothing but a
						wise and timely exercise of judicial authority in defense of the Constitution and sound
						policy, the radical elements regarded it as an evidence "that the judicial branch of the
						government was under the control of the same interests that had mutilated the Wilson
						tariff bill in the Senate." The local Federal courts augmented this popular feeling by
						frequently issuing injunctions ordering workingmen in time of strikes not to interfere
						with their employers' business, thus crippling them in the coercion of employers,  by imprisoning without jury trial those who disobeyed
						judicial orders.
					Although the injunction was an ancient legal device, it was not until after the Civil
						War that it was developed into a powerful instrument in industrial disputes; and it
						became particularly effective in the hands of Federal judges. They were not popularly
						elected, but were appointed by the President and the Senate (where corporate influences
						were ably represented). Under the provisions of the law giving Federal courts
						jurisdiction in cases involving citizens of different states, they were called upon to
						intervene with increasing frequency in industrial disputes, for railway and other
						corporations usually did business in several states, and they could generally invoke
						Federal protection by showing that they were " non-residents" of the particular states
						in which strikes were being waged. Moreover, strikers who interfered with interstate
						commerce were likely to collide with Federal authorities whose aid was invited by the
						employers affected. Whenever a corporation was in bankruptcy, control over its business
						fell into the hands of the Federal courts.
					The effectiveness of Federal judicial intervention in labor troubles became apparent in
						the first great strikes of the seventies, when the state authorities proved unable to
						restrain rioting and disorder by the use of the local militia. During the railway war of
						1877 a Federal judge in southern Illinois ordered the workingmen not to interfere with a
						railway for which he had appointed a receiver, and he then employed Federal troops under
						the United States marshal to execute his mandate. 
						About the same time other Federal judges intervened effectively in industrial disputes
						by the liberal use of the injunction, and the president of the Pennsylvania Railroad
						Company pointed out in an article published in the North American
							Review for September, 1877, how much more potent Federal authority was in such
						trying crises to give railway corporations efficient protection.
					From that time forward the injunction was steadily employed by Federal and state
						courts, but it was not until the great railway strike of 1894 in Chicago that it was
						brought prominently before the country as a distinct political issue. In that strike,
						the Democratic governor, Mr. Altgeld, believing that the employers had fomented disorder
						for the purpose of invoking Federal intervention (as was afterward pretty conclusively
						shown), refused to employ the state militia speedily and effectively, contending that
						the presence of troops would only make matters worse. The postal authorities, influenced
						by a variety of motives, of which, it was alleged, a desire to break the strike was one,
						secured prompt Federal intervention on the part of President Cleveland and the use of
						Federal troops. Thus the labor unions were quickly checkmated.
					This action on the part of President Cleveland was supplemented in July, 1894, by a
						general blanket injunction issued from the Federal district court in Chicago to all
						persons concerned, ordering them not to interfere with the transmission of the mails or
						with interstate commerce in any form. Mr. Debs, president of the American Railway Union,
						who was directing the strike  which was tying up
						interstate commerce, was arrested, fined, and imprisoned for refusing to obey this
						injunction. Mr. Debs, thereupon, through his counsel, claimed the right to jury trial,
						asserting that the court could not impose a penalty which was not provided by statute,
						but which depended solely upon the will of the judge. On appeal, the Supreme Court of
						the United States upheld the lower court and declared that imprisonment for contempt of
						court did not violate the principle of jury trial.
					It was not merely labor leaders who were stirred to wrath by this development in
						judicial authority. Many eminent lawyers saw in it an attack upon the ancient safeguards
						of the law which provided for regular proceedings, indictment, the hearing of witnesses,
						jury trial, and the imposition of only such punishments as could be clearly ascertained
						in advance. On the other hand others held it to be nothing new at all, but simply the
						application of the old principle that injunctions could issue in cases where irreparable
						injury might otherwise ensue. They pointed out that its effectiveness depended upon
						speedy application, and that the delays usually incident to regular judicial procedure
						would destroy its usefulness altogether. To workingmen it appeared to be chiefly an
						instrument for imprisoning their leaders and breaking strikes by the prevention of
						coercion, peaceful or otherwise. At all events, the decision of the Supreme Court
						upholding the practice and its doctrines added to the bitterness engendered by the
						income tax decision--a bitterness manifested at the Democratic convention at Chicago the
						following year.




					
					The crowning cause of immediate discontent was the financial policy pursued by
						President Cleveland,1 which
						stirred the wrath of the agrarians already agitated over inflation, and gave
						definiteness to an issue on which both parties had been judiciously ambiguous in their
						platforms in 1892. The farmers pointed out that, notwithstanding the increased output of
						corn, the total amount of money received in return was millions less than it had been in
						the early eighties. They emphasized the fact that more than half of the taxable acreage
						of Kansas and Nebraska was mortgaged, and that many other western states were nearly as
						badly off. The falling prices and their inability to meet their indebtedness they
						attributed to the demonetization of silver and the steady enhancement of gold.
					For the disease, as they diagnosed it, they had a remedy. The government, they said,
						had been generous to Wall Street and financial interests at large by selling bonds at
						rates which made great fortunes for the narrow group of purchasers, and by distributing
						its deposits among the banks in need of assistance. The power of the government could
						also be used for the benefit of another class--namely, themselves. Gold should be
						brought down and the currency extended by the free coinage of silver on a basis of
						sixteen to one. The value of crops, when measured in money, would thus mount upwards,
						and it would be easier to pay the interest on mortgages and discharge their
						indebtedness. Furthermore, while the government was in the business of accommodating the
						public it might loan money to the 1 See above, p. 106.
						 farmers at a low rate of interest.1 But the inflation of the currency and the
						increase of prices of farm products by the free coinage of silver were the leading
						demands of the discontented agrarians--an old remedy for an old disease. 1 It is interesting to note
							that agricultural credit--a subject in which European countries are far advanced--is
							just now beginning to receive some attention in quarters where the demands of the
							farmers for better terms on borrowed money were once denounced as mere
							vagaries.
				


				
				
					CHAPTER VII
						THE CAMPAIGN OF 1896
					IT does not require that distant historical perspective, which is
						supposed to be necessary for final judgments, to warrant the assertion that the campaign
						of 1896 marks a turning point in the course of American politics. The monetary issue, on
						which events ostensibly revolved, was, it is true, an ancient one, but the real conflict
						was not over the remonetization of silver or the gold standard. Deep, underlying class
						feeling found its expression in the conventions of both parties, and particularly that
						of the Democrats, and forced upon the attention of the country, in a dramatic manner, a
						conflict between great wealth and the lower middle and working classes, which had
						hitherto been recognized only in obscure circles. The sectional or vertical cleavage in
						American politics was definitely cut by new lines running horizontally through society,
						and was also crossed at right angles by another line running north and south,
						representing the western protest against eastern creditors and the objectionable methods
						of great corporations which had been rapidly unfolded to public view by merciless
						criticism and many legislative investigations.
					Even the Republican party, whose convention had been largely prepared in advance by the
						vigorous labors  of Mr. Marcus A. Hanna,1 was not untouched by the divisions which later
						rent the Democratic party in twain. When the platform was reported to the duly assembled
						Republican delegates by Mr. Foraker, of Ohio, its firm declaration of opposition to free
						silver, except by international agreement, was greeted by a divided house, although, as
						the record runs, there was a "demonstration of approval on the part of a large majority
						of the delegates which lasted several minutes." When a vote was taken on the financial
						plank, it was discovered that 110 delegates favored silver as against 812 in support of
						the proposition submitted by the platform committee. The defeated contingent then
						withdrew from the convention after having presented a statement in which they declared
						that "the people cry aloud for relief; they are bending under a burden growing heavier
						with the passing hours; endeavour no longer brings its just reward . . . and unless the
						laws of the country and the policies of political parties shall be converted into
						mediums of redress, the effect of human desperation may sometime be witnessed here as in
						other lands and in other ages."
					This threat was firmly met by the body of the convention which remained. In nominating
						Mr. Thomas B. Reed, Mr. Lodge, of Massachusetts, declared: "Against the Republican party
						are arrayed not only that organized failure, the Democratic party, but all the wandering
						forces of political chaos and social disorder. . . . Such a man we want for our great
						office in these bitter times when the forces of disorder are loose and the wreckers
							1 See below, p.
							239.
						 with their false lights gather at the shore to lure the
						ship of state upon the rocks." Mr. Depew, in nominating Mr. Levi P. Morton, decried all
						of the current criticism of capital. Mr. Foraker, in presenting the name of Mr.
						McKinley, was more conciliatory: distress and misery were abroad in the land and bond
						issues and bond syndicates had discredited and scandalized the country; but McKinley was
						the man to redeem the nation.
					This conciliatory attitude was hardly necessary, for there were no radical elements in
						the Republican assembly after the withdrawal of the silver faction. The proceedings of
						the convention were in fact then extraordinarily harmonious, brief, and colorless. The
						platform, apart from the sound money plank, contained no sign of the social conflict
						which was being waged in the world outside. Tariff, pensions, civil service, temperance,
						and the usual formalities of party programs were treated after the fashion consecrated
						by time. Railway and trust problems were overlooked entirely. Even the money plank was
						not put first, and it was not so phrased as to constitute the significant challenge
						which it became in the campaign. "The Republican party," it ran, "is unreservedly for
						sound money. It caused the enactment of the law providing for the resumption of specie
						payments in 1879; since then every dollar has been good as gold. We are unalterably
						opposed to every measure calculated to debase our currency or impair the credit of our
						country. We are, therefore, opposed to the free coinage of silver except by inter-
						international agreement with the leading commercial nations  of the world, which we pledge ourselves to promote, and until such an agreement can
						be obtained the existing gold standard must be maintained."
					This clear declaration on the financial issue was apparently not a part of the drama as
						Mr. Hanna and Mr. McKinley had staged it. The former was in favor of the gold standard
						so far as he understood it, but he was not a student of finance, and he was more
						interested "in getting what we got," to use his phrase, than in any very fine
						distinctions in the gold plank. Mr. McKinley, on the other hand, was widely known as a
						bimetallist; but his reputation throughout the country rested principally upon his high
						protective doctrines. He, therefore, wished to avoid the monetary issue by straddling it
						in such a way as not to alienate the large silver faction in the West. Mr. Hanna's
						biographer tells us that Mr. Kohlsaat claims to have spent hours on Sunday, June 7,
						"trying to convince Mr. McKinley of the necessity of inserting the word 'gold' in the
						platform. The latter argued in opposition that 90 per cent of his mail and his callers
						were against such decisive action, and he asserted emphatically that thirty days after
						the convention was over the currency question would drop out of sight and the tariff
						would become the sole issue. The currency plank, tentatively drawn by Mr. McKinley and
						his immediate advisers, embodied his resolution to keep the currency issue subordinate
						and vague."1 The leaders in the
						convention, however, refused to accept Mr. McKinley's view and forced him to take the
						step which he had hoped to avoid.
					1 H. Croly, M.
							A. Hanna, p. 195.


					
					In his speech of acceptance, McKinley deprecated and sought to smooth over the class
						lines which had been drawn. "It is a cause for painful regret and solicitude," he said,
						"that an effort is being made by those high in the counsels of the allied parties to
						divide the people of this country into classes and create distinctions among us which in
						fact do not exist and are repugnant to our form of government. . . . Every attempt made
						to array class against class, 'the classes against the masses,' section against section,
						labor against capital, 'the poor against the rich,' or interest against interest in the
						United States is in the highest degree reprehensible." In the Populist features of the
						Democratic platform he saw a grave menace to our institutions, but he accepted the
						challenge. "We avoid no issues. We meet the sudden, dangerous, and revolutionary assault
						upon law and order and upon those to whom is confided by the Constitution and laws the
						authority to uphold and maintain them, which our opponents have made, with the same
						courage that we have faced every emergency since our organization as a party more than
						forty years ago."
					
						The Democratic Convention
						No doubt the decisive action of the Republican convention helped to consolidate the
							silver forces in the Democratic party; but even if the Republicans had obscured the
							silver question by a vague declaration, their opponents would have come out definitely
							against the gold standard. This was so apparent weeks before  the Democratic national assembly met, that conservatives in the party
							talked of refusing to participate in the party councils, called at Chicago on July 7.
							They were aware also that other and deeper sources of discontent were bound to
							manifest themselves when the proceedings got under way.
						The storm which broke over the party had long been gathering. The Grange and
							Greenback movements did not disappear with the disappearance of the outward signs of
							organization; they only merged into the Populist movement with cumulative effect. The
							election of 1892 was ominous, for the agrarian party had polled a million votes. It
							had elected members of Congress and presidential electors; it was organized and
							determined. It arose from a mass of discontent which was justified, if misdirected. It
							was no temporary wave, as superficial observers have imagined. It had elements of
							solidity which neither of the old parties could ignore or cover up. No one was more
							conscious of this than the western and southern leaders in the Democratic party. They
							had been near the base of action, and they thought that what the eastern leaders
							called a riot was in fact the beginning of a revolution. Unwilling to desert their
							traditional party, they decided to make the party desert its traditions, and they came
							to the Democratic convention in Chicago prepared for war to the hilt.
						From the opening to the close, the Democratic convention in Chicago in 1896 was
							vibrant with class feeling. Even in the prayer with which the proceedings began, the
							clergyman pleaded : "May the hearts of all  be filled
							with profound respect and sympathy for our toiling multitudes, oppressed with burdens
							too heavy for them to bear--heavier than we should allow them to bear,"--a prayer that
							might have been an echo of some of the speeches made in behalf of the income tax in
							Congress.
						The struggle began immediately after the prayer, when the presiding officer, on
							behalf of the retiring national committee, reported as temporary chairman of the
							convention, David B. Hill, of New York, the unrelenting opponent of the income tax and
							everything that savored of it. Immediately afterward, Mr. Clayton, speaking in behalf
							of twenty-three members of the national committee as opposed to twenty-seven,
							presented a minority report which proposed the Honorable John W. Daniel, of Virginia,
							as chairman. Pleas were made that the traditions of the party ought not to be violated
							by a refusal to accept the recommendations of the national committee.
						After a stormy debate, the minority report of the national committee, proposing Mr.
							Daniel for chairman, was carried by a vote of 556 to 349. The states which voted
							solidly or principally for Mr. Hill were Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts,
							Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island,
							South Dakota, Vermont, Wisconsin, and Alaska--all of the New England and Central
							seaboard states, which represented the accumulated wealth of the country. The official
							proceedings of the convention state, "When the result of this vote was announced,
							there was a period of nearly  twenty minutes during
							which no business could be transacted, on account of the applause, cheers, noise and
							confusion."
						In his opening speech as chairman, Mr. Daniel declared that they were witnessing "an
							uprising of the people for American emancipation from the conspiracies of European
							kings led by Great Britain, which seek to destroy one half of the money of the world."
							He declared in favor of bimetallism and devoted most of his speech to the monetary
							question and to repeated declarations of financial independence in behalf of the
							United States. He also attacked, however, the tax system which the Democrats inherited
							from the Republicans in 1893, and in speaking of the deficit which was incurred under
							the Democratic tariff act he declared that it would have been met by the income tax
							incorporated in the tariff bill "had not the Supreme Court of the United States
							reversed its settled doctrines of a hundred years." On the second day of the
							convention, while the committees were preparing their reports, Governor Hogg, of
							Texas, Senator Blackburn, of Kentucky, Governor Altgeld, of Illinois, and other
							gentlemen were invited to address the convention.
						The first of these speakers denounced the Republican party as a "great class maker
							and mass smasher"; he scorned that "farcical practice" which had given governmental
							protection to the wealthy and left the laborer to protect himself. "This protected
							class of Republicans," he exclaimed, "proposes now to destroy labor organizations. To
							that end it has organized syndicates, pools, and trusts, and proposes through the  Federal courts, in the exercise of their unconstitutional
							powers by the issuance of extraordinary unconstitutional writs, to strike down, to
							suppress, and to overawe those organizations, backed by the Federal bayonet. . . . Men
							who lived there in their mansions and rolled in luxuries were the only ones to get the
							benefit of this Republican [sugar] bounty called protection." Senator Blackburn, of
							Kentucky, exclaimed that "Christ with a lash drove from the temple a better set of men
							than those who for twenty years have shaped the financial policy of this country."
							Governor Altgeld declared: "We have seen the streets of our cities filled with idle
							men, with hungry women, and with ragged children. The country to-day looks to the
							deliberations of this convention to promise some form of relief." This relief was to
							be secured by the remonetization of silver and the emancipation of the country from
							English capitalists and eastern financiers.
						On the third day of the convention, Senator Jones, of Arkansas, chairman of the
							committee on platform, reported the conclusions of the majority of his committee. In
							the platform, as reported, there were many expressions of class feeling. It declared
							that the act of 1873 demonetizing silver caused a fall in the price of commodities
							produced by the people, a heavy increase in the public taxation and in all debts,
							public and private, the enrichment of the money-lending class at home and abroad, the
							prostration of industry, and the impoverishment of the people. The McKinley tariff was
							denounced as "a prolific breeder of trusts and monopolies"  which had "enriched the few at the expense of the many."
						The platform made the money question, however, the paramount issue, and declared for
							"the free and unlimited coinage of both silver and gold at the present legal ratio of
							sixteen to one without waiting for the aid or consent of any other nation." It stated
							that, until the monetary question was settled, no changes should be made in the tariff
							laws except for the purpose of meeting the deficit caused by the adverse decision of
							the Supreme Court in the income tax cases. The platform at this point turned upon the
							Court and asserted that the income tax law had been passed "by a Democratic Congress
							in strict pursuance of the uniform decisions of that Court for nearly a hundred
							years." It then hinted at a reconstruction of the Court, declaring that, "it is the
							duty of Congress to use all the constitutional power which remains after that decision
							or which may come from its reversal by the Court, as it may hereafter be constituted,
							so that the burden of taxation may be equally and impartially laid, to the end that
							wealth may bear its due proportion of the expense of the government."
						The platform contained many expressions of sympathy with labor. "As labor creates the
							wealth of the country," ran one plank, "we demand the passage of such laws as
							may be necessary to protect it in all its rights." It favored arbitration for labor
							conflicts in interstate commerce. Referring to the recent Pullman strike and the labor
							war in Chicago, it denounced "arbitrary interference by Federal authorities in local
							affairs as a  violation of the Constitution of the
							United States and a crime against free institutions, and we specially object to
							government by injunction as a new and highly dangerous form of oppression by which
							Federal judges, in contempt of the laws of the states and rights of citizens, become
							at once legislators, judges, and executioners; and we approve the bill passed by the
							last session of the United States Senate, and now pending in the House of
							Representatives, relative to contempt in Federal courts and providing for trials by
							jury in certain cases of contempt."
						The platform did not expressly attack the administration of President Cleveland, but
							the criticism of the intervention by Federal authorities in local affairs was directed
							particularly to his interference in the Chicago strike. The departure from the
							ordinary practice of praising the administration of the party's former leader itself
							revealed the feeling of the majority of the convention.

						A minority of the platform committee composed of sixteen delegates presented
							objections to the platform as reported by Senator Jones and offered amendments. In
							their report the minority asserted that many declarations in the majority report were
							"ill-considered and ambiguously phrased, while others are extreme and revolutionary of
							the well-recognized principles of the party." The free coinage of silver independently
							of other nations, the minority claimed, would place the United States at once "upon a
							silver basis, impair contracts, disturb business, diminish the purchasing powers of
							the wages of labor, and inflict irreparable evils upon our nation's commerce and
							industry." The minority,  therefore, proposed the
							maintenance of the existing gold standard; and concluded by criticizing the report of
							the majority as "defective in failing to make any recognition of the honesty, economy,
							courage, and fidelity of the present Democratic administration." This minority report
							was supplemented by two amendments proposed by Senator Hill, one to the effect that
							any change in the monetary standard should not apply to existing contracts and the
							other pledging the party to suspend, within one year from its enactment, the law
							providing for the independent free coinage of silver, in case that coinage did not
							realize the expectation of the party to secure a parity between gold and silver at the
							ratio of sixteen to one.
						After the presentation of the platform and the proposed changes, an exciting and
							disorderly debate followed. The discussion was opened by Mr. Tillman, who exclaimed
							that the Civil War had emancipated the black slaves and that they were now in
							convention to head a fight for the emancipation of the white slaves, even if it
							disrupted the Democratic party as the Civil War had disrupted it. Without any
							equivocation and amid loud and prolonged hissing, he declared that the new issue like
							the old one was sectional--a declaration of political war on the part of the hewers of
							wood and the drawers of water in the southern and western states against the East. He
							compared the growth of fifteen southern states in wealth and population with the
							growth of Pennsylvania; he compared Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri with
							Massachusetts; to these five western states he added Kentucky, Tennessee,  Kansas, and Nebraska, and compared them all with the
							state of New York. The upshot of his comparison was that the twenty-five southern and
							western states were in economic bondage to the East and that we now had a money
							oligarchy more insolent than the slave oligarchy which the Civil War had
							overthrown.
						Mr. Tillman could scarcely contain his wrath when he came to a consideration of the
							proposal to indorse Cleveland's administration. He denounced the Democratic President
							as "a tool of Wall Street"; and declared that they could not indorse him without
							writing themselves down as "asses and liars." "They ask us to indorse his courage,"
							exclaimed Mr. Tillman. "Well, now, no one disputes the man's boldness and obstinacy,
							because he had the courage to ignore his oath of office, and redeem, in gold, paper
							obligations of the government, which were payable in coin--both gold and silver, and,
							furthermore, he had the courage to override the Constitution of the United States and
							invaded the state of Illinois with the United States army and undertook to override
							the rights and liberties of his fellow citizens. They ask us to indorse his fidelity.
							He has been faithful unto death, or rather unto the death of the Democratic party, so
							far as he represents it, through the policy of the friends that he had in New York and
							ignored the entire balance of the Union." Mr. Tillman was dissatisfied with the
							platform because it did not attack Mr. Cleveland's policies, and, amid great confusion
							throughout the hall, he proposed that the platform should "denounce the administration
							of President Cleveland as undemocratic and tyrannical." He warned the convention  that, "If this Democratic ship goes to sea on storm-
							tossed waves without fumigating itself, without express repudiation of this man who
							has sought to destroy his party, then the Republican ship goes into port and you go
							down in disgrace, defeated in November." In his proposed amendment to the platform, he
							asserted that Cleveland had used the veto power to thwart the will of the people, and
							the appointive power to subsidize the press and debauch Congress. The issue of bonds
							to purchase gold, to discharge obligations payable in coin at the option of the
							government, and the use of the proceeds for ordinary expenses, he denounced as
							"unlawful and usurpations of authority deserving of impeachment."
						After Senator Jones was given the floor for a few moments to repudiate the charge
							brought by Mr. Tillman that the fight was sectional in character, Senator Hill, of New
							York, began the real attack upon the platform proposed by the majority. The Senator
							opened by saying that he was a Democrat, but not a revolutionist, that the question
							before them was one of business and finance, not of bravery and loyalty, and that the
							first step toward monetary reform should be a statement in favor of international
							bimetallism. He followed this by a special criticism of the declaration in favor of
							the ratio of sixteen to one which was, in his opinion, not only an unwise and
							unnecessary thing, but destined to return to plague them in the future.
						Senator Hill then turned to the income tax which he had so vigorously denounced on
							the floor of the Senate two years before. "What was the necessity," he asked, "for
							putting into the platform other questions which  have
							never been made the tests of Democratic loyalty before ? Why revive the disputed
							question of the policy and constitutionality of an income tax ? . . . Why, I say,
							should it be left to this convention to make as a tenet of Democratic faith belief in
							the propriety and constitutionality of an income tax law ?
						"Why was it wise to assail the Supreme Court of your country? Will some one tell what
							that clause means in this platform? 'If you meant what you said and said what you
							meant,' will some one explain that provision? That provision, if it means anything,
							means that it is the duty of Congress to reconstruct the Supreme Court of the country.
							It means, and such purpose was openly avowed, it means the adding of additional
							members to the Court or the turning out of office and reconstructing the whole Court.
							I said I will not follow any such revolutionary step as that. Whenever before in the
							history of this country has devotion to an income tax been made the test of Democratic
							loyalty? Never ! Have you not undertaken enough, my good friends, now without seeking
							to put in this platform these unnecessary, foolish, and ridiculous things ?"
						"What further have you done?" continued the Senator. "In this platform you have
							declared, for the first time in the history of this country, that you are opposed to
							any life tenure whatever for office. Our fathers before us, our Democratic fathers,
							whom we revere, in the establishment of this government, gave our Federal judges a
							life tenure of office. What necessity was there for reviving this question? How
							foolish and how unnecessary, in my opinion. Democrats, whose  whole lives have been devoted to the service of the party, men whose
							hopes, whose ambitions, whose aspirations, all lie within party lines, are to be
							driven out of the party upon this new question of life tenure for the great judges of
							our Federal courts. No, no; this is a revolutionary step, this is an unwise step, this
							is an unprecedented step in our party history."
						Senator Hill then turned to a defense of President Cleveland's policy, denouncing the
							attempt to bring in the bond issue as foolish and calculated to put them on the
							defensive in every school district in the country. He closed by begging the convention
							not "to drive old Democrats out of the party who have grown gray in the service, to
							make room for a lot of Republicans and Populists, and political nondescripts."
						Senator Hill's protest was supported by Senator Vilas from Wisconsin, who saw in the
							proposed free coinage of silver no difference, except in degree, between "the
							confiscation of one half of the credits of the nation for the benefit of debtors," and
							"a universal distribution of property." In this radical scheme there was nothing short
							of "the beginning of the overthrow of all law, of all justice, of all security and
							repose in the social order." He warned the convention that the American people would
							not tolerate the first steps toward the atrocities of the French Revolution, although
							"in the vastness of this country there may be some Marat unknown, some Danton or
							Robespierre." He asked the members of the convention when and where robbery by law had
							come to be a Democratic doctrine, and with solemn earnestness he pleaded with them not
							to launch the old party out  on a wild career or to
							"pull down the pillars of the temple and crush us all beneath the ruins." He declared
							that the gold standard was not responsible for falling prices; that any stable
							standard had "no more to do with prices than a yard stick or a pair of scales." He
							begged them to adopt the proposed amendment which would limit the effect of the change
							of standards to future contracts and thus deliver the platform from an imputation of a
							purpose to plunder.
						The closing speech for the platform was then made by Mr. William Jennings Bryan, of
							Nebraska, who clothed his plea in the armor of righteousness, announcing that he had
							come to speak "in defense of a cause as holy as the cause of liberty--the cause of
							humanity." The spirit and zeal of a crusader ran through his speech. Indeed, when
							speaking of the campaign which the Silver Democrats had made to capture the party, he
							referred to that frenzy which inspired the crusaders under the leadership of Peter the
							Hermit. He spoke in defense of the wage earner, the lawyer in the country town, the
							merchant at the crossroads store, the farmer and the miner,--naming them one after the
							other and ranging himself on their side. "We stand here," he said, "representing
							people who are the equals before the law of the largest cities in the state of
							Massachusetts. When you come before us and tell us that we shall disturb your business
							interests, we reply that you have disturbed our business interests by your action. We
							say to you that you have made too limited in its application the definition of a
							business man. The man who is employed for wages is as much a business man as his
							employer. The  attorney in a country town is as much a
							business man as the corporation counsel in a great metropolis. The merchant at the
							crossroads store is as much a business man as the merchant of New York. The farmer who
							goes forth in the morning and toils all day, begins in the spring and toils all
							summer, and by the application of brain and muscle to the natural resources of this
							country creates wealth, is as much a business man as the man who goes upon the Board
							of Trade and bets upon the price of grain. The miners who go a thousand feet into the
							earth or climb two thousand feet upon the cliffs, and bring forth from their hiding
							places the precious metals to be poured in the channels of trade, are as much business
							men as the few financial magnates who, in a back room, corner the money of the
							world.
						"We come to speak for this broader class of business men. Ah, my friends, we say not
							one word against those who live upon the Atlantic coast; but those hardy pioneers who
							braved all the dangers of the wilderness, who have made the desert to blossom as the
							rose--those pioneers away out there, rearing their children near to nature's heart,
							where they can mingle their voices with the voices of the birds--out there where they
							have erected schoolhouses for the education of their children and churches where they
							praise their Creator, and the cemeteries where sleep the ashes of their dead--are as
							deserving of the consideration of this party as any people in this country.
						"It is for these that we speak. We do not come as aggressors. Our war is not a war of
							conquest. We are fighting in the defense of our homes, our families, and  posterity. We have petitioned, and our petitions have
							been scorned. We have entreated, and our entreaties have been disregarded. We have
							begged, and they have mocked when our calamity came.
						"We beg no longer; we entreat no more; we petition no more. We defy them !"
						Mr. Bryan then took up the income tax. He repudiated the idea that the proposed
							platform contained a criticism of the Supreme Court. He said, "We have simply called
							attention to what you know. If you want criticisms, read the dissenting opinions of
							the court." He denied that the income tax law was unconstitutional when it was passed,
							or even when it went before the Supreme Court for the first time. "It did not become
							unconstitutional," he exclaimed, "until one judge changed his mind ; and we cannot be
							expected to know when a judge will change his mind."
						The monetary question was the great paramount issue. But Mr. Bryan did not stop to
							discuss any of the technical points involved in it. Protection had slain its
							thousands, and the gold standard had slain its tens of thousands; the people of the
							United States did not surrender their rights of self-government to foreign potentates
							and powers. The common people of no land had ever declared in favor of the gold
							standard, but bondholders had. If the gold standard was a good thing, international
							bimetallism was wrong; if the gold standard was a bad thing, the United States ought
							not to wait for the help of other nations in righting a wrong--this was the line of
							Mr. Bryan's attack. And he concluded by saying: "Mr. Carlisle said, in 1878, that this
							was a  struggle between the idle holders of idle capital
							and the struggling masses who produce the wealth and pay the taxes of the country;
							and, my friends, it is simply a question that we shall decide upon which side shall
							the Democratic party fight? Upon the side of the idle holders of idle capital, or upon
							the side of the struggling masses? That is the question that the party must answer
							first; and then it must be answered by each individual hereafter. The sympathies of
							the Democratic party, as described by the platform, are on the side of the struggling
							masses, who have ever been the foundation of the Democratic party.
						"There are two ideas of government. There are those who believe that if you just
							legislate to make the well-to-do prosperous, their prosperity will leak through on
							those below. The Democratic idea has been that if you legislate to make the masses
							prosperous, their prosperity will find its way up and through every class that rests
							upon it.
						"You come to us and tell us that the great cities are in favor of the gold standard.
							I tell you that the great cities rest upon these broad and fertile prairies. Burn down
							your cities and leave our farms, and your cities will spring up again as if by magic.
							But destroy our farms, and the grass will grow in the streets of every city in this
							country.
						"My friends, we shall declare that this nation is able to legislate for its own
							people on every question, without waiting for the aid or consent of any other nation
							on earth, and upon that issue we expect to carry every single State in this Union.




						
						"I shall not slander the fair State of Massachusetts, nor the State of New York, by
							saying that when its citizens are confronted with the proposition, 'Is this nation
							able to attend to its own business ?'--I will not slander either one by saying that
							the people of those States will declare our helpless impotency as a nation to attend
							to our own business. It is the issue of 1776 over again. Our ancestors, when but
							3,000,000, had the courage to declare their political independence of every other
							nation upon earth. Shall we, their descendants, when we have grown to 70,000,000,
							declare that we are less independent than our forefathers ? No, my friends, it will
							never be the judgment of this people. Therefore, we care not upon what lines the
							battle is fought. If they say bimetallism is good, but we cannot have it till some
							nation helps us, we reply that, instead of having a gold standard because England has,
							we shall restore bimetallism, and then let England have bimetallism because the United
							States have.
						"If they dare to come out and in the open defend the gold standard as a good thing,
							we shall fight them to the uttermost, having behind us the producing masses of the
							Nation and the world. Having behind us the commercial interests and the laboring
							interests and all the toiling masses, we shall answer their demands for a gold
							standard by saying to them, you shall not press down upon the brow of labor this crown
							of thorns. You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold."
						The record of the convention states that "the conclusion of Mr. Bryan's speech was
							the signal for a tremendous outburst of noise, cheers, etc. The standards  of many states were carried from their places and
							gathered about the Nebraska delegation." Never in the history of convention oratory
							had a speaker so swayed the passions of his auditors and so quickly made himself
							unquestionably "the man of the hour."
						After some parliamentary skirmishing, Mr. Hill succeeded in securing from the
							convention a vote on the proposition of the minority in favor of the maintenance of
							the gold standard, "until international cooperation among the leading nations in the
							coinage of silver can be secured." For this proposition the eastern states voted
							almost solidly, with some help from the western states. Connecticut gave her twelve
							votes for the substitute amendment; Delaware, five of her six votes; Maine, ten out of
							twelve; Maryland, twelve out of sixteen; Massachusetts, twenty-seven out of thirty;
							New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont gave
							their entire vote for the gold standard. The eastern states secured a little support
							in the West and South. Minnesota gave eleven out of seventeen votes for the amendment;
							Wisconsin voted solidly for it; Florida gave three out of eight votes; Washington gave
							three out of eight; Alaska voted solidly for it; the District of Columbia and New
							Mexico each cast two out of the six votes allotted to them in the convention. Out of a
							total of 929 votes cast, 303 were for the minority amendment and 626 against it.
						The minority proposition to commend "the honesty, economy, courage, and fidelity of
							the present Democratic administration" was then put to the convention and  received a vote of 357 to 564--nine not voting. The
							additional support to the eastern states came this time principally from California,
							Michigan, and Minnesota; but the division between the Northeast and the West and South
							was sharply maintained. The adoption of the platform as reported by the majority of
							the committee was then effected by a vote of 628 to 301.
						In the evening the convention turned to the selection of candidates. In the
							nominating speeches, the character of the revolution in American politics came
							out even more clearly than in the debates on the platform. The enemy had been routed,
							and the convention was in the hands of the radicals, and they did not have to
							compromise and pick phrases in the hope of harmony.
						Richard Bland, of Missouri, was the first man put before the convention, and he was
							represented as "the living, breathing embodiment of the silver cause"--a candidate
							chosen "not from the usurer's den, nor temple of Mammon where the clink of gold drowns
							the voice of patriotism; but from the farm, the workshop, the mine--from the hearts
							and homes of the people." Mr. Overmeyer, of Kansas, seconded the nomination of Mr.
							Bland--"that Tiberius Gracchus"--"in the name of the farmers of the United States; in
							the name of the homeless wanderers who throng your streets in quest of bread; in the
							name of that mighty army of the unemployed; in the name of that mightier army which
							has risen in insurrection against every form of despotism."
						Mr. Bryan was presented as that young giant of the West, that friend of the people,
							that champion of the  lowly, that apostle and prophet of
							this great crusade for financial reform--a new Cicero to meet the new Catilines of
							to-day--to lead the Democratic party, the defender of the poor, and the protector of
							the oppressed, which this day sent forth "tidings of great joy to all the toiling
							millions of this overburdened land."
						On the first ballot,fourteen candidates were voted for, but Mr. Bland and Mr. Bryan
							were clearly in the lead. On the fifth ballot, Mr. Bryan was declared nominated by a
							vote of 652 out of 930. Throughout the balloting, most of the eastern states abstained
							from voting. Ten delegates from Connecticut, seventeen or eighteen from Massachusetts,
							a majority from New Jersey, all of the delegates from New York, and a majority of the
							delegates from Wisconsin refused to take any part at all. Pennsylvania remained loyal
							throughout to the nominee from that state, Pattison, although it was a forlorn hope.
							Thus in the balloting for candidates, we discover the same alignment of the East
							against the West and the South which was evident in the vote on the platform. In the
							vote on the Vice President which followed, the eastern states refused to
							participate--from 250 to 260 delegates abstaining during the five ballots which
							resulted in the nomination of Sewall. New York consistently abstained; so did New
							Jersey; while a majority of the delegates from Pennsylvania and Massachusetts refused
							to take part.
						In the notification speech delivered by Mr. Stone at Madison Square Garden in New
							York on August 12, the Democratic party was represented as the champion of the masses
							and their leader as "a plain man of the  people." He
							defended the men of the Chicago convention against the charge of being cranks,
							anarchists, and socialists, declaring them to be the representatives of the industrial
							and producing classes who constituted "the solid strength and safety of the state"
							against the combined aggressions of foreign money changers and Anglicized American
							millionaires--"English toadies and the pampered minions of corporate rapacity."
							Against the selfish control of the privileged classes, he placed the sovereignty of
							the people, declaring that within both of the old parties there was a mighty struggle
							for supremacy between those who stood for the sovereignty of the people and those who
							believed in "the divinity of pelf." He took pride in the fact that the convention
							represented "the masses of the people, the great industrial and producing masses of
							the people. It represented the men who plow and plant, who fatten herds, who toil in
							shops, who fell forests, and delve in mines. But are these to be regarded with
							contumely and addressed in terms of contempt ? Why, sir, these are the men who feed
							and clothe the nation; whose products make up the sum of our exports; who produce the
							wealth of the republic; who bear the heaviest burdens in times of peace; who are ready
							always to give their lifeblood for their country's flag--in short, these are the men
							whose sturdy arms and faithful hands uphold the stupendous fabric of our
							civilization."
						Mr. Bryan's speech of acceptance was almost entirely devoted to a discussion of the
							silver question. But he could not ignore the charge, which had then become widespread
							throughout the country, that his party  meditated an
							attack upon the rights of property and was the foe of social order and national honor.
							He repudiated the idea that his party believed that equality of talents and wealth
							could be produced by human institutions ; he declared his belief in private property
							as the stimulus to endeavor and compensation for toil; but he took his stand upon the
							principle that all should be equal before the law. Among his foes he discovered "those
							who find a pecuniary advantage in advocating the doctrines of non-interference when
							great aggregations of wealth are trespassing upon the rights of individuals." The
							government should enforce the laws against all enemies of the public weal, not only
							the highwayman who robs the unsuspecting traveler, but also the transgressors who
							"through the more polite and less hazardous means of legislation appropriate to their
							own use the proceeds of the toil of others."
						In his opinion, the Democratic income tax was not based upon hostility to the rich,
							but was simply designed to apportion the burdens of government more equitably among
							those who enjoyed its protection. As to the matter of the Supreme Court, there was no
							suggestion in the platform of a dispute with that tribunal. For a hundred years the
							Court had upheld the underlying principle of the income tax, and twenty years before
							"this same Court sustained without a dissenting voice an income tax law almost
							identical with the one recently overthrown." The platform did not propose an attack on
							the Supreme Court; some future Court had as much right "to return to the judicial
							precedents of a century as the present Court had to depart from them. When  Courts allow rehearings they admit that error is
							possible; the late decision against the income tax was rendered by a majority of one
							after a rehearing."
						Discussing the monetary question, Mr. Bryan confined his argument to a few principles
							which he deemed fundamental. He disposed of international bimetallism by questioning
							the good faith of those who advocated it and declaring that there was an impassable
							gulf between a universal gold standard and bimetallism, whether independent or
							international. He rejected the proposition that any metal represented an absolutely
							just standard of value, but he argued that bimetallism was better than monometallism
							because it made a nearer approach to stability, honesty, and justice than a gold
							standard possibly could. Any legislation lessening the stock of standard money
							increased the purchasing power of money and lowered the monetary value of all other
							forms of property. He endeavored to show the advantages to be derived from bimetallism
							by farmers, wage earners, and the professional classes, and asked whether the mass of
							the people did not have the right to use the ballot to protect themselves from the
							disastrous consequences of a rising standard, particularly in view of the fact that
							the relatively few whose wealth consisted largely in fixed investments had not
							hesitated to use the ballot to enhance the value of their investments.
						On the question of the ratio, sixteen to one, Mr. Bryan declared that, because gold
							and silver were limited in the quantities then in hand and in annual production,
							legislation could fix the ratio between them, simply 
							following the law of supply and demand. The charge of repudiation he met with an
							argument in kind, declaring it to come "with poor grace from those who are seeking to
							add to the weight of existing debts by legislation which makes money dearer, and who
							conceal their designs against the general welfare under the euphonious pretense that
							they are upholding public credit and national honor." He concluded with a warning to
							his hearers that they could not afford to join the money changers in supporting a
							financial policy which destroyed the purchasing power of the product of toil and ended
							with discouraging the creation of wealth.
						In a letter of acceptance of September 9, 1896, Mr. Bryan added little to the
							speeches he had made in the convention and in accepting the nomination. He attacked
							the bond policy of President Cleveland and declared that to assert that "the
							government is dependent upon the good will or assistance of any portion of the people
							other than a constitutional majority is to assert that we have a government in form
							but without vital force." Capital, he urged, was created by labor, and "since the
							producers of wealth create the nation's prosperity in time of peace and defend
							the nation's flag in time of peril, their interests ought at all times to be con-
							considered by those who stand in official positions." He criticized the abuses in
							injunction proceedings and favored the principle of trial by jury in such cases. He
							declared that it was not necessary to discuss the tariff at that time because the
							money question was the overshadowing issue, and all minor matters must be laid aside
							in favor of united action on that moot point.


						
						A few of the advocates of the gold standard in the Democratic party, who could not
							accept the Chicago platform and were yet unwilling to go over to the Republicans, held
							a convention at Indianapolis in September, and nominated a ticket, headed by John M.
							Palmer for President, and Simon Buckner for Vice President. This party, through the
							address of its executive committee calling the convention, declared that Democrats
							were absolved from all obligations to support the Chicago platform because the
							convention had departed from the recognized Democratic faith and had announced
							doctrines which were "destructive of national honor and private obligation and tend to
							create sectional and class distinctions and engender discord and strife among the
							people." The address repudiated the doctrine of majority rule in the party, declaring
							that when a Democratic convention departed from the principles of the party, no
							Democrat was under any moral obligation to support its action.
						The principles of the party which, the address declared, had been adhered to from
							Jefferson to Cleveland "without variableness or a shadow of turning" were summed up in
							a policy of laissez faire. A true Democrat, ran the address,
							"believes, and this is the cardinal doctrine of his political faith, in the ability of
							every individual unassisted, if unfettered by law, to achieve his own happiness, and
							therefore that to every citizen there should be secured the right and opportunity
							peaceably to pursue whatever course of conduct he would, provided such conduct
							deprived no other individual of the equal enjoyment of the same right and opportunity.
								 He stood for freedom of speech, freedom of
							conscience, freedom of trade, and freedom of contract, all of which are implied by the
							century-old battle cry of the Democratic party 'Individual Liberty!'... Every true
							Democrat . . . profoundly disbelieves in the ability of the government, through
							paternal legislation, or supervision, to increase the happiness of the nation."
						In the platform adopted at the convention, the "National Democratic party" was
							pledged to the general principles enunciated in the address and went on record as
							"opposed to all paternalism and all class legislation." It declared that the Chicago
							convention had attacked "individual freedom, the right of private contract, the
							independence of the judiciary, and the authority of the President to enforce Federal
							laws." It denounced protection and the free coinage of silver as two schemes designed
							for the personal profit of the few at the expense of the masses; it declared in favor
							of the gold standard, indorsed President Cleveland's administration, and went to the
							support of the Supreme Court by condemning "all efforts to degrade that tribunal or to
							impair the confidence and respect which it has deservedly held."
						This platform received the support of President Cleveland, who, in response to an
							invitation to attend the meeting at which the candidates were to be notified, said :
							"As a Democrat, devoted to the principles and integrity of my party, I should be
							delighted to be present on an occasion so significant and to mingle with those who are
							determined that the voice of true Democracy shall not be smothered and who insist that
							the glorious standard shall be borne aloft as of old in faithful hands."


						
						In their acceptance speeches, Palmer and Buckner devoted more attention to condemning
							the Chicago platform than to explaining the principles for which they stood. General
							Buckner said: "The Chicago Convention would wipe virtually out of existence the
							Supreme Court which interprets the law, forgetting that our ancestors in England
							fought for hundreds of years to obtain a tribunal of justice which was free from
							executive control. They would wipe that out of existence and subject it to the control
							of party leaders to carry out the dictates of the party--they would paralyze the arm
							of the general government and forbid the powers to protect the lives and property of
							its citizens. That convention in terms almost placed a lighted torch in the hands of
							the incendiary and urged the mob to proceed without restraint to pillage and murder at
							their discretion."
					
					
						The Campaign
						The campaign which followed the conventions was the most remarkable in the long
							history of our quadrennial spectacles. Terror is always a powerful instrument in
							politics, and it was never used with greater effect than in the summer and autumn of
							1896. Some of Mr. Bryan's utterances, particularly on the income tax, frightened the
							rich into believing, or pretending to believe, that his election would be the
							beginning of a wholesale confiscation. The Republicans replied to Mr. Bryan's threats
							by using the greatest of all terrors, the terror of unemployment, with tremendous
							effect. Everywhere they  let the country understand that
							the defeat of Mr. McKinley would close factories and throw thousands of workingmen out
							of employment, and manufacturers and railways were accused by Mr. Bryan of exercising
							coercion on a large scale.
						To this terror from above, the Democrats responded by creating terror below, by
							stirring deep-seated class feeling against the Republican candidate and his managers.
							In a letter given out from the Democratic headquarters in Chicago, on September 12,
							1896, Mr. Jones, chairman of the Democratic national committee, said: "Against the
							people in this campaign are arrayed the consolidated forces of wealth and corporate
							power. The classes which have grown fat by reason of Federal legislation and the
							single gold standard have combined to fasten their fetters still more firmly upon the
							people and are organizing every precinct of every county of every state in the Union
							with this purpose in view. To meet and defeat this corrupt and unholy alliance the
							people themselves must organize and be organized. . . . It will minimize the effect of
							the millions of dollars that are being used against us, and defeat those influences
							which wealth and corporate power are endeavoring to use to override the will of the
							people and corrupt the integrity of free institutions."
						Owing to the nature of the conflict enormous campaign funds were secured. The silver
							miners helped to finance Mr. Bryan, but their contributions were trivial compared with
							the immense sums raised by Mr. Hanna from protected interests, bankers, and
							financiers. With this great fund, speakers were employed by the  thousands, newspapers were subsidized, party literature circulated by the
							ton, whole states polled in advance, and workers employed to carry the Republican
							fight into every important precinct in the country. The God of battles was on the side
							of the heaviest battalions. With all the most powerful engines for creating public
							sentiment against him, Mr. Bryan, in spite of his tremendous popular appeal, was
							doomed to defeat.
						Undoubtedly, as was said at the time, most of the leading thinkers in finance and
							politics were against Mr. Bryan, and if there is anything in the verdict of history,
							the silver issue could not stand the test of logic and understanding. But it must not
							be presumed that it was merely a battle of wits, and that demagogic appeals to
							passions which were supposed to be associated with Mr. Bryan's campaign were confined
							to his partisans. On the contrary, the Republicans employed all of the forms of
							personal vituperation. For example, that staid journal of Republicanism, the New York Tribune, attributed the growth of Bryanism to the "assiduous
							culture of the basest passions of the least worthy member of the community. . . . Its
							nominal head was worthy of the cause. Nominal because the wretched, rattle-pated boy,
							posing in vapid vanity and mouthing resounding rottenness, was not the real leader of
							that league of hell. He was only a puppet in the blood-imbued hands of Altgeld, the
							anarchist, and Debs, the revolutionist, and other desperadoes of that stripe. But he
							was a willing puppet, Bryan was,--willing and eager. None of his masters was more apt
							than he at lies and forgeries and blasphemies and all the  nameless iniquities of that campaign against the Ten Commandments." That such high
							talk by those who constituted themselves the guardians of public credit, patriotism,
							and the Ten Commandments was not calculated to sooth the angry passions of their
							opponents needs no demonstration here.
						Argument, party organization and machinery, the lavish use of money, and terror won
							the day for the Republicans. The solid East and Middle West overwhelmed Mr. Bryan,
							giving Mr. McKinley 271 electoral votes and 7,111,607 popular votes, as against 176
							electoral and 6,509,052 popular votes cast for the Democratic candidate.
						The decisive defeat of Mr. Bryan put an end to the silver issue for practical
							purposes, although, as we shall see, it was again raised in 1900. The Republicans,
							however, delayed action for political reasons, and it was not until almost four years
							had elapsed that they made the gold dollar the standard by an act of Congress approved
							on March 4, 1900. Thus the war of the standards was closed, but the question of the
							currency was not settled, and the old issue of inflation and contraction continued to
							haunt the paths of the politicians. From time to time, the prerogatives of the
							national banks, organized under the law of 1863 (modified in 1901), were questioned in
							political circles, and in 1908 an attempt was made by act of Congress to give the
							currency more elasticity by authorizing the banks to form associations and issue notes
							on the basis of certain securities. Nevertheless, no serious changes were made in the
							financial or banking  systems before the close of the
							year 1912. The attention of the country, shortly after the campaign of 1896, was
							diverted to the spectacular events of the Spanish War, and for a time appeals to
							patriotism subdued the passions of the radicals.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER VIII 
						IMPERIALISM
					THE Republicans triumphed in 1896, but the large vote for Mr. Bryan
						and his platform and the passions aroused by the campaign made it clear to the
						far-sighted that, whatever might be the fate of free silver, new social elements had
						entered American politics. It was fortunate for the conservative interests that the
						quarrel with Spain came shortly after Mr. McKinley's election, and they were able to
						employ that ancient political device, "a vigorous foreign policy," to divert the public
						mind from domestic difficulties. This was particularly acceptable to the populace at the
						time, for there had been no war for more than thirty years, and, contrary to their
						assertions on formal occasions, the American people enjoy wars beyond measure, if the
						plain facts of history are allowed to speak.1
					Since 1876 there had been no very spectacular foreign affair to fix the attention of
						the public mind, except the furor worked up over the application of the Monroe Doctrine
						to Venezuela during President Cleveland's second administration. For a long time that
						country and Great Britain had been waging a contest over the western boundary of British
						Guiana; and the United States, on the appeal of Venezuela, had taken a slight 1 J. B. Moore, Four Phases of American Development, p. 195.
						 interest in the dispute, generally assuming that the
						merits of the case were on the side of the South American republic. In 1895, it became
						apparent that Great Britain did not intend to yield any points in the case, and
						Venezuela began to clamor again for protection, this time with effect. In July of that
						year, the Secretary of State, Richard Olney, demanded that Great Britain answer whether
						she was willing to arbitrate the question, and announced that the United States was
						master in this hemisphere by saying : "The United States is practically sovereign on
						this continent and its fiat is law upon the subjects to which it confines its
						interposition. Why ? It is not because of the pure friendship or good will felt for it.
						It is not simply by reason of its high character as a civilized state, nor because
						wisdom and equity are the invariable characteristics of the dealings of the United
						States. It is because in addition to all other grounds, its infinite resources combined
						with its isolated position render it master of the situation and practically
						invulnerable against any or all other powers."
					This extraordinary document, to put it mildly, failed to arouse the warlike sentiment
						in England which its language invited, and Lord Salisbury replied for the British
						government that this startling extension of the Monroe Doctrine was not acceptable in
						the present controversy and that the arbitration of the question could not be admitted
						by his country. This moderate reply brought from President Cleveland a message to
						Congress on December 17, 1895, which created in the United States at least all the
						outward and visible signs of the preliminaries to a war over the matter. He asked
						Congress to  create a commission to ascertain the true
						boundary between Venezuela and British Guiana, and then added that it would be the duty
						of the United States "to resist by every means in its power, as a wilful aggression upon
						its rights and interests, the appropriation by Great Britain of any lands or the
						exercise of governmental jurisdiction over any territory which, after investigation, we
						have determined of right belongs to Venezuela." He declared that he was conscious of the
						responsibilities which he thus incurred, but intimated that war between Great Britain
						and the United States, much as it was to be deplored, was not comparable to "a supine
						submission to wrong and injustice and the consequent loss of national self-respect and
						honor." In other words, we were to decide the dispute ourselves and go to war on Great
						Britain if we found her in possession of lands which in our opinion did not belong to
						her.
					This defiant attitude on the part of President Cleveland, while it aroused a wave of
						enthusiasm among those sections of the population moved by bold talk about the
						unimpeachable integrity of the United States and its daring defense of right everywhere,
						called forth no little criticism in high places. Contrary to expectation, it was not met
						by bluster on the part of Great Britain, but it was rather deplored there as threatening
						a breach between the two countries over an insignificant matter. Moreover, when the
						commission created by Congress set to work on the boundary dispute, the British
						government courteously replied favorably to a request for assistance in the search for
						evidence. Finally, Great Britain yielded and agreed to the earlier proposition on  the part of the United States that the issue be submitted
						to arbitration; and this happy outcome of the matter contributed not a little to Mr.
						Cleveland's reputation as "a sterling representative of the true American spirit." This
						was not diminished by the later discovery that Great Britain was wholly right in her
						claims in South America.
					The Venezuelan controversy was an echo of the time-honored Monroe Doctrine and was
						without any deeper economic significance. There were not wanting, however, signs that
						the United States was prepared economically to accept that type of imperialism that had
						long been dominant in British politics and had sprung into prominence in Germany,
						France, and Italy during the generation following the Franco-Prussian War. This newer
						imperialism does not rest primarily upon a desire for more territory, but rather upon
						the necessity for markets in which to sell manufactured goods and for opportunities to
						invest surplus accumulations of capital. It begins in a search for trade, advances to
						intervention on behalf of the interests involved, thence to protectorates, and finally
						to annexation. By the inexorable necessity of the present economic system, markets and
						safe investment opportunities must be found for surplus products and accumulated
						capital. All the older countries being overstocked and also forced into this new form of
						international rivalry, the drift is inevitably in the direction of the economically
						backward countries: Africa, Asia, Mexico, and South America. Economic necessity thus
						overrides American  isolation and drives the United States
						into world politics.
					Although the United States had not neglected the protection of its interests from the
						days when it thrashed the Barbary pirates, sent Caleb Cushing to demand an open door in
						China, and dispatched Commodore Perry to batter down Japanese exclusiveness, the
						relative importance of its world operations was slight until manufacturing and commerce
						gained their ascendancy over agriculture.
					The pressure of the newer interests on American foreign policy had already been felt
						when the demand for the war with Spain came. In 1889, the United States joined with
						Great Britain and Germany in a protectorate over the Samoan Islands, thus departing,
						according to Secretary Gresham, from our "traditional and well-established policy of
						avoiding entangling alliances with foreign powers in relation to objects remote from
						this hemisphere."1 Preparations
						had been made under Harrison's administration for the annexation of the Hawaiian
						Islands, after a revolution, largely fomented by American interests there, had
						overthrown the established government; but this movement was blocked for the time being
						by President Cleveland, who learned through a special commissioner, sent to investigate
						the affair, that the upheaval had been due principally to American disgust for the weak
						and vacillating government of the Queen. It was not until the middle of the Spanish War
						that Congress, recognizing the importance 1 In 1899, the tripartite arrangement was dissolved and the
							United States obtained outright possession of Tutuila.
						 of the Hawaiian Islands in view of the probable
						developments resulting from Admiral Dewey's victory in the Philippines, annexed them to
						the United States by joint resolution on July 6, 1898.1
					
						The Spanish War
						It required, however, the Spanish War and the acquisition of the insular dependencies
							to bring imperialism directly into politics as an overshadowing issue and to secure
							the frank acknowledgment of the new emphasis on world policy which economic interests
							demanded. It is true that Cuba had long been an object of solicitude on the part of
							the United States. Before the Civil War, the slave power was anxious to secure its
							annexation as a state to help offset the growing predominance of the North; and during
							the ten years' insurrection from 1868 to 1878, when a cruel guerilla warfare made all
							life and property in Cuba unsafe, intervention was again suggested. But it was not
							until the renewal of the insurrection in 1895 that American economic interests in Cuba
							were strong enough to induce interference. Slavery was gone, but capital, still more
							dominant, had taken its place.
						In 1895, Americans had more than fifty million dollars invested in Cuban business,
							and our commerce with the Island had risen to one hundred millions annually. The
							effect of the Cuban revolt against Spain was not 1 The Hawaiian Islands are ruled by a governor
								appointed by the President and Senate and by a legislature of two houses elected by
								popular vote.
							 only to diminish trade, but also to destroy American
							property. The contest between the rebels and Spanish troops was characterized by
							extreme cruelty and a total disregard for life and property. Gomez, the leader of the
							revolt, resorted to the policy made famous by Sherman on his march to the sea. He laid
							waste the land to starve the Spaniards and compel American interference if possible.
							By a proclamation of November 6, 1895, he ordered that plantation buildings and
							railway connections should be destroyed and sugar factories closed everywhere; what he
							left undone was finished by the Spanish general, Weyler, who concentrated the
							inhabitants of the rural districts in the centers occupied by the troops. Under such a
							policy, business was simply paralyzed; and within less than two years Americans had
							filed against Spain claims amounting to sixteen million dollars for property destroyed
							in the revolution.
						The atrocities connected with the insurrection attracted the sympathy of the
							American people at once. Sermons were preached against Spanish barbarism; orators
							demanded that the Cuban people be "succored in their heroic struggle for the rights of
							men and of citizens"; Mr. Hearst's newspapers appealed daily to the people to compel
							governmental action at once, and denounced the tedious methods of negotiation, in view
							of an inevitable war. Cuban juntas formed in American cities raised money and supplied
							arms for the insurrectionists. All the enormous American property interests at stake
							in the Island, with their widespread and influential ramifications in the United
							States, demanded  action. The war fever, always quick to
							be kindled, rose all over the country.
						Even amid the exciting campaign of 1896, the Democrats found time to express sympathy
							with the Cubans, and the Republicans significantly remarked that inasmuch as Spain was
							"unable to protect the property or lives of resident American citizens," the good
							offices of the United States should be tendered with a view to pacification and
							independence. Perhaps, not unaware of the impending crisis, the Republicans also
							favored a continued enlargement of the navy to help maintain the "rightful influence"
							of the United States among the nations of the earth.
						President Cleveland, repudiated by his own party and having no desire to "play the
							game of politics," assumed an attitude of neutrality in the conflict and denied to the
							Cubans the rights of belligerents. He offered to Spain the good offices of the United
							States in mediation with the insurgents--a tender which was rejected by Spain with the
							suggestion that the United States might more vigorously suppress the unlawful
							assistance which some of its citizens were lending to the revolutionists. Mr.
							Cleveland's second administration closed without any positive action on the Cuban
							question.
						Within four months after his inauguration, President McKinley protested strongly to
							Spain against her policy in Cuba, and during the summer and autumn and winter he
							conducted a running fire of negotiations with Spain. Congress was impatient for armed
							intervention and fretted at the tedious methods of diplomacy.  Spain shrewdly made counter thrusts to every demand advanced by the United
							States, but made no outward sign of improvement in the affairs of Cuba, even after the
							recall of General Weyler. In February, 1898, a private letter, written by De Lôme, the
							Spanish minister at Washington, showing contempt for Mr. McKinley and some shifty
							ideas of diplomacy, was acquired by the New York Journal and
							published. This stirred the country and led to the recall of the minister by his home
							government. Meanwhile the battleship Maine was sent to Havana,
							officially to resume friendly relations at Cuban ports, but not without an ulterior
							regard for the necessity of protecting the lives and property of Americans in
							jeopardy. The incident of the Spanish minister's letter had hardly been closed before
							the Maine was blown up and sunk on the evening of February 15, 1898.
							The death of two officers and two hundred and fifty-eight of the crew was a tragedy
							which moved the nation beyond measure, and with the cry "Remember the Maine" public opinion was worked up to a point of frenzy.
						A commission was appointed at once to inquire into the cause of the disaster, and on
							March 21 it reported that the Maine had been destroyed by an
							explosion of a submarine mine which set off some of the ship's magazines. Within a
							week, negotiations with Spain were resumed, and that country made generous promises to
							restore peace in the Island and permit a Cuban parliament to be established in the
							interests of local autonomy. None of Spain's promises were regarded as satisfactory by
							the administration, and on April 4,  General Woodford,
							the American representative in that country, was instructed to warn the ministry that
							no effective armistice had been offered the Cubans and that President McKinley would
							shortly lay the matter before Congress--which meant war. After some delay, during
							which representatives of the European powers and the Pope were at work in the
							interests of peace, Spain promised to suspend hostilities, call a Cuban parliament,
							and restore a reasonable autonomy.
						On the day after the receipt of this promise, President McKinley sent his war message
							to Congress without explaining fully the latest concessions made by Spain. It was
							claimed by the Spanish government that it had yielded absolutely everything short of
							independence and that all of the demands of the United States had been met. Some
							eminent editors and publicists in the United States have since accepted this view of
							the affair and sharply criticized the President for not making public the full text of
							Spain's last concession on the day that he sent his war message to Congress. Those who
							take this view hold that President McKinley believed war to be inevitable and
							desirable all along, but merely wished to bring public opinion to the breaking point
							before shifting the responsibility to Congress. The President's defenders, however,
							claim that no credence could be placed in the good faith of Spain and that the
							intolerable conditions in Cuba would never have been removed under Spanish
							administration, no matter what promises might have been made.
						In his war message of April 11, 1898, Mr. McKinley brought under review the
							conditions in Cuba and the  history of the controversy,
							coming to the conclusion that the dictates of humanity, the necessity of protecting
							American lives and property in Cuba, and the chronic disorders in the Island warranted
							armed intervention. Congress responded by an overwhelming vote on April 19, in favor
							of a resolution declaring that Cuba should be free, that Spain's withdrawal should be
							demanded, and the President be authorized to use the military and naval forces of the
							country to carry the decree into effect. In the enthusiasm of the hour, Congress also
							specifically disclaimed any intention of exercising "sovereignty, jurisdiction, or
							control over said Island except for the pacification thereof." Thus war was declared
							on the anniversary of the battle of Lexington.
						In the armed conflict which followed, the most striking and effective operations were
							on the sea. In anticipation of the war, Commodore Dewey, in command of the Asiatic
							station, had been instructed as early as February to keep his squadron at Hongkong,
							coaled, and ready, in event of a declaration of hostilities to begin offensive
							operations in the Philippine Islands. The battleship Oregon, then
							off the coast of Washington, was ordered to make the long voyage around the Horn,
							which has now become famous in the annals of the sea. At the outbreak of the war, Rear
							Admiral Sampson, in charge of the main squadron at Key West, was instructed to
							blockade important stretches of the coast of Cuba and to keep watch for the arrival of
							the Spanish fleet, under Admiral Cervera, which was then on the high seas, presumably
							bound for Cuba.
						The first naval blow was struck by Admiral Dewey,  who
							had left Chinese waters on receiving news of the declaration of war and had reached
							Manila Bay on the evening of April 30. Early the following morning he opened fire on
							the inferior Spanish fleet under the guns of Cavité and Manila, and within a few hours
							he had destroyed the enemy's ships, killed nearly four hundred men, and silenced the
							shore batteries without sustaining the loss of a single man or suffering any injuries
							to his own ships worthy of mention. News of this extraordinary exploit reached the
							United States by way of Hongkong on May 6, and the hero of the day was, by popular
							acclaim, placed among the immortals of our naval history.
						While celebrating the victory off Manila, the government was anxiously awaiting the
							arrival of the Spanish fleet in American waters which were being carefully patrolled.
							In spite of the precautions of Admiral Sampson, Cervera was able to slip into the
							harbor of Santiago on May 19, where he was immediately blockaded by the American naval
							forces. An attempt was made to stop up the mouth of the harbor by sending Lieutenant
							Richmond P. Hobson to sink a collier at the narrow entrance, but this spectacular
							move, carried out under a galling fire, failed to accomplish the purpose of the
							projectors, and Hobson and his men fell into the hands of the Spaniards.
						The time had now come for bringing the land forces into coöperation with the navy for
							a combined attack on Santiago, and on June 14 a large body of troops, principally
							regulars, embarked from Tampa, where men and supplies had been concentrating for
							weeks.  The management of the army was in every respect
							inferior to the administration of the navy. Secretary Alger, of the War Department,
							was a politician of the old school, who could not allow efficiency to interfere with
							the "proper" distribution of patronage; and as a result of his dilatory methods (to
							put it mildly) and the general unpreparedness of the army, the camp at Tampa was
							grossly mismanaged. Sanitary conveniences were indescribably bad, supply contractors
							sold decayed meat and wretched food to the government, heavy winter clothing was
							furnished to men about to fight in the summer time in a tropical climate, and, to cap
							the climax of blundering, inadequate provisions were made for landing the troops when
							they reached Cuba on June 22.
						The forces dispatched to Cuba were placed under the command of General Shafter, but
							owing to his illness the fighting was principally carried on under Generals Lawton and
							Wheeler. The most serious conflicts in the land campaign occurred at El Caney and San
							Juan Hill, both strategic points near Santiago. At the second of these places the
							famous "Rough Riders" under Colonel Roosevelt distinguished themselves by a charge up
							the hill under heavy fire and by being the first to reach the enemy's intrenchments.
							In spite of several engagements, in which the fortunes of the day were generally on
							the side of the Americans, sickness among the soldiers and lack of supplies caused
							General Shafter to cable, on July 3, that without additional support he could not
							undertake a successful storming of Santiago.
						At this critical juncture, the naval forces once more 
							distinguished themselves, and made further bloody fighting on land unnecessary, by
							destroying Cervera's fleet which attempted to make its escape from the Santiago harbor
							on the morning of July 3. The American ships were then in charge of Commodore Schley,
							for Admiral Sampson had left watch early that morning for a conference with General
							Shafter; and the sailors acquitted themselves with the same skill that marked Dewey's
							victory at Manila. Within less than four hours' fighting all the Spanish ships were
							destroyed or captured with a loss of about six hundred killed and wounded, while the
							Americans sustained a loss of only one man killed and one wounded. This victory, of
							course, marked the doom of Santiago, although it did not surrender formally until July
							17, after two days' bombardment by the American ships.
						The fall of Santiago ended military operations in Cuba, and General Miles, who had
							come to the front in time to assist General Shafter in arranging the terms of the
							surrender of Santiago, proceeded at once to Porto Rico. He was rapidly gaining
							possession of that Island in an almost bloodless campaign when news came of the
							signing of the peace protocol on August 12. Unfortunately it required longer to convey
							the information to the Philippines that the war was at an end, and on the day after
							the signature of the protocol, that is, August 13, General Merritt and Admiral Dewey
							carried Manila by storm.
						As early as July 26, 1898, the Spanish government approached President McKinley
							through M. Cambon, the French ambassador at Washington, and asked for  a preliminary statement of the terms on which the war
							could be brought to a close. After some skirmishing, in which Spain reluctantly
							yielded to the American ultimatum, a peace protocol was signed on August 12, to the
							effect that Cuba should be independent, Porto Rico ceded to the United States, and
							Manila occupied pending the final negotiations, which were opened at Paris by special
							commissioners on October 1.
						When the commissioners met according to arrangements, the government of the United
							States apparently had not come to a conclusion as to the final disposition of the
							Philippines. The administration was anxious not to go too far in advance of public
							opinion, at least so far as official pronunciamento was concerned, although powerful
							commercial interests were busy impressing the public mind with the advantages to be
							derived from the retention of the distant Pacific Islands. In his instructions to the
							peace commissioners, on the eve of their departure, Mr. McKinley, while denying that
							there had originally been any intention of conquest in the Pacific, declared that the
							march of events had imposed new duties upon us, and added: "Incidental to our tenure
							in the Philippines is the commercial opportunity to which American statesmanship
							cannot be indifferent. It is just to use every legitimate means for the enlargement of
							American trade." While stating that the possession of territory was less important
							than an "open door" for trade purposes, he concluded by instructing the commissioners
							that the United States could not "accept less than the cession in full right and
							sovereignty of the Island of Luzon."




						
						The peace commissioners were divided among themselves as to the policy to be pursued
							with regard to the Philippines; but in the latter part of October they received
							definite instructions from the Secretary of State, Mr. John Hay, that the cession of
							Luzon alone could not be justified "on political, commercial, or humanitarian
							grounds," and that the entire archipelago must be surrendered by Spain. The Spanish
							commissioners protested vigorously against this demand, on the theory that it was
							outside of the terms of the peace protocol, but they were forced to yield, receiving
							as a sort of consolation prize the payment of twenty million dollars in compensation
							for the loss.
						The final treaty, as signed on December 10, 1898, embodied the following terms: the
							independence of Cuba, the cession of Porto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines to the
							United States, the cancellation of the claims of the citizens of the two countries
							against each other, the United States undertaking to settle the claims of its citizens
							against Spain, the payment of twenty million dollars for the Philippines by the United
							States, and the determination of the civil and political status of the inhabitants of
							the ceded territories by Congress.
						When the treaty of peace was published, the contest over the retention of the
							Philippines took on new bitterness--at least in public speeches and editorials. The
							contentions on both sides were so vehement that it was almost impossible to secure any
							frank discussion of the main issue: "Does the United States want a foothold in the
							Pacific in order to secure the trade of the Philippines and afford American capital an
							opportunity  to develop the dormant natural resources,
							and in order also to have a station from which to give American trade and capital a
							better chance in the awakening Orient?" Democrats demanded self-government for the
							Philippines, "in recognition of the principles of the immortal Declaration of
							Independence." Republicans talked in lofty strains about "the mysterious hand of
							Providence which laid this burden upon the Anglo-Saxon race."
						The proposal to retain the Philippines, in fact, gave the southern statesmen just the
							opportunity they had long wanted to taunt the Republicans with insincerity on the race
							question. "Republican leaders," said Senator Tillman, "do not longer dare to call into
							question the justice or necessity of limiting negro suffrage in the South." And on
							another occasion he exclaimed in querulous accents: "I want to call your attention to
							the remarkable change that has come over the spirit of the dream of the Republicans.
							Your slogans of the past--brotherhood of man and fatherhood of God--have gone
							glimmering down through the ages. The brotherhood of man exists no longer." To such
							assertions, Republicans of the old school, like Senator Hoar, opposed to imperialism,
							replied sadly, "The statements of Mr. Tillman have never been challenged and never can
							be." But Republicans of the new school, unvexed by charges of inconsistency, replied
							that high talk about the rights of man and of self-government came with poor grace
							from southern Democrats who had disfranchised millions of negroes that were just as
							capable of self-government as the bulk of the natives in the Philippines.
						Senator Vest, on December 6, introduced in the Senate 
							a resolution to the effect "that under the Constitution of the United States, no power
							is given to the Federal Government to acquire territory to be held and governed
							permanently as colonies." He was ably supported by Senator Hoar, from Massachusetts,
							who took his stand upon the proposition that "governments derive their just powers
							from the consent of the governed." On the other side, Senator O. H. Platt, of
							Connecticut, expounded the gospel of manifest destiny: "Every expansion of our
							territory has been in accordance with the irresistible law of growth. We could no more
							resist the successive expansions by which we have grown to be the strongest nation on
							earth than a tree can resist its growth. The history of territorial expansion is the
							history of our nation's progress and glory. It is a matter to be proud of, not to
							lament. We should rejoice that Providence has given us the opportunity to extend our
							influence, our institutions, and our civilization into regions hitherto closed to us,
							rather than contrive how we can thwart its designs."
						At length on February 6, 1899, the treaty was ratified by the Senate, but it must not
							be assumed that all of the Senators who voted for the ratification of the treaty
							favored embarking upon a policy of "imperialism." Indeed, at the time of the approval
							of the treaty, a resolution was passed by the Senate to the effect that the policy to
							be adopted in the Philippines was still an open question; but the outbreak of an
							insurrection there led to an immediate employment of military rule in the Islands and
							criticism was silenced by the cry that our national honor was at stake.


						

						The revolt against American dominion might have been foreseen, for the conduct of
							Generals Anderson and Merritt at Manila had invited trouble. For a long time before
							the War, native Filipinos had openly resisted Spanish rule, and particularly the
							dominance of the monks and priests, who held an enormous amount of land and managed
							civil as well as ecclesiastical affairs. Just before the outbreak of the Spanish War,
							there had been a revolt under the leadership of Aguinaldo which had been brought to an
							end by the promise to pay a large sum to the revolutionary leaders and to introduce
							extensive administrative reforms. The promises, however, had not been carried out, and
							Admiral Dewey had invited the cooperation of Aguinaldo and his insurgents in the
							attack on Manila. When the land assault was made on the city, in August, Aguinaldo
							joined with a large insurgent army under the banner of the Filipino republic which had
							been proclaimed in July, but he was compelled to take a subordinate position, and
							received scant respect from the American commanders, who gave him to understand that
							he had no status in the war or the settlement of the terms of capitulation.
						As may be imagined, Aguinaldo was in no happy frame of mind when the news came in
							January, 1899, that the United States had assumed sovereignty over the islands; but it
							is not clear that some satisfactory adjustment might not have been made then, if the
							United States had been willing to accept a sort of protectorate and allow the
							revolutionaries to establish a local government of their own. However, little or
							nothing was done to reach a peaceful adjustment, and on February 4,  some Filipino soldiers were shot by American troops
							for refusing to obey an order to halt, on approaching the American lines. This
							untoward incident precipitated the conflict which began with some serious regular
							fighting and dwindled into a vexatious guerilla warfare, lasting three years and
							costing the United States heavily in men and money. Inhuman atrocities were committed
							on both sides, resembling in brutality the cruel deeds which had marked frontier
							warfare with the Indians. Reports of these gruesome barbarities reached the United
							States and aroused the most severe criticism of the administration, not only from the
							opponents of imperialism, but also from those supporters of the policy, who imagined
							that it could be carried out with rose water.
						The acquisition of the insular dependencies raised again the old problem as to the
							power of Congress over territories, which had been so extensively debated during the
							slavery conflict. The question now took the form: "Does the Constitution restrict
							Congress in the government of the Islands as if they were physically and politically a
							part of the United States, and particularly, do the limitations in behalf of private
							rights, freedom of press, trial by jury, and the like, embodied in the first ten
							Amendments, control the power of Congress?" Strict constitutionalists answered this
							question in the affirmative without hesitation, citing the long line of constitutional
							decisions which had repeatedly affirmed the doctrine that Congress is limited
							everywhere, even in the territories by the Amendments 
							providing for the protection of personal and property rights; but practical
							politicians, supporting the McKinley administration, frankly asserted that the
							Constitution and laws of the United States did not of their own force apply in the
							territories and could not apply until Congress had expressly extended them to the
							insular possessions.
						The abstract question was given concrete form in several decisions by the Supreme
							Court, known as "the Insular Cases." The question was speedily raised whether
							importers of commodities from Porto Rico should be compelled to pay the duties
							prescribed by the Dingley act, and the Court answered in the case of De Lima v. Bidwell in 1901 that the Island was "domestic" within the meaning
							of the tariff act and that the duties could not be collected. In the course of his
							remarks, the Justice, who wrote the opinion, said that territory was either domestic
							or foreign, and that the Constitution did not recognize any halfway position. Four
							Justices dissented, however; and American interests, fearing this new competition, had
							dissented in advance,--so vigorously, in fact, that Congress during the previous year
							had passed the Foraker act imposing a tariff on goods coming into the United States
							from Porto Rico and vice versa.
						This concession to the protected interests placed the Supreme Court in a dilemma. If
							Porto Rico was domestic territory,--a part of the United States,--was not the
							Foraker act a violation of the constitutional provision that duties, imposts, and
							excises shall be uniform throughout the United States? This question  was judicially answered by the Court in the case of
							Downes v. Bidwell, decided on May 27, 1901, which upheld the Foraker
							act on grounds so various that the only real point made by the Court was that the law
							was constitutional. None of the four justices who concurred with Justice Brown in the
							opinion agreed with his reasoning, and the four judges, who dissented entirely from
							the decision and the opinion, vigorously denied that there could be any territory
							under the flag of the United States which was not subject to the limitations of the
							Constitution.
						In other cases involving freedom of the press in the Philippines and trial by jury in
							the Hawaiian Islands, the Supreme Court upheld the doctrine that Congress, in
							legislating for the new dependencies, was not bound by all those constitutional
							limitations which had been hitherto applied in the continental territories of the
							United States. The upshot of all these insular decisions is that the Constitution may
							be divided into two parts, "fundamental" and "formal"; that only the fundamental parts
							control the Federal authorities in the government of the dependencies; and that the
							Supreme Court will decide, from time to time as specific cases arise, what parts of
							the Federal Constitution are "fundamental" and what parts are merely "formal." In two
							cases, the Court has gone so far as to hold that indictment by grand jury and trial by
							petit jury with unanimous verdict are not "fundamental" parts of the Constitution,
							"but merely concern a method of procedure." In other words, the practical necessities
							of governing subject races of different origins and legal traditions  forced that eminent tribunal to resort to painful reason-
							ing in an effort not to hamper unduly the power of Congress by constitutional
							limitations.
						In the settlement which followed the Spanish War, three general problems were
							presented. In the first place, our relations to Cuba required definition. It is true
							that in the declaration of war on Spain Congress had disclaimed "any disposition or
							intention to exercise sovereignty, jurisdiction, or control over said Island except
							for the pacification thereof, and asserts its determination when that is accomplished
							to leave the government and control of the Island to its people"; but American
							economic interests in the Island were too great to admit of the actual fulfillment of
							this promise. Consequently, Cuba was forced to accept, as a part of her constitution,
							several provisions, known as the Platt amendment, adopted by the Congress of the
							United States on March 2, 1901, restricting her relations with foreign countries,
							limiting her debt-creating power, securing the right of the United States to intervene
							whenever necessary to protect life and property, and reserving to the United States
							the right to acquire coaling stations at certain points on the Island to be agreed
							upon.
						Under the constitution, to which the Platt reservations on behalf of the United
							States were attached, the Cubans held a general election in December, 1901, choosing a
							president and legislature; and in the spring of the following year American troops
							were withdrawn, leaving the administration in the hands of the natives.  It was not long, however, before domestic difficulties
							began to disturb the peace of the Island, and in the summer of 19o6 it was reported
							that the government of President Palma was about to be overthrown by an insurrection.
							Under the circumstances, Palma resigned, and the Cuban congress was unable to secure a
							quorum for the transaction of business. After due warning, President Roosevelt
							intervened, under the provisions of the Platt amendment, and instituted a temporary
							government supported by American troops. American occupation of the Island continued
							for a few months, but finally the soldiers were withdrawn and native government was
							once more put on trial.
						The second problem was presented by Porto Rico, where military rule was put into
							force after the occupation in 1898. At length, on May 1, 1900, an "organic act,"
							instituting civil government in that Island, was approved by the President. This law
							did not confer citizenship on the Porto Ricans, but assured them of the protection of
							the United States. It set up a government embracing a governor, appointed by the
							President and Senate of the United States, six executive secretaries appointed in the
							same manner as the governor, and a legislature of two houses--one composed of the six
							secretaries and five other persons selected by the President and Senate, acting as the
							upper house, and a lower house elected by popular vote. Under this act, the practice
							of appointing Americans to the chief executive offices took the final control of
							legislative matters out of the hands of the natives, leaving them only an initiatory
							power. This produced a friction between  the appointive
							and elective branches of the government, which became so troublesome that the dispute
							had to be carried to Washington in 1909, and Congress enacted a measure providing
							that, in case the lower house of the Porto Rican legislature refused to pass the
							budget, the financial arrangements of the previous year should continue.
						The problem of governing the Philippines was infinitely more complicated than that of
							governing Porto Rico, because the archipelago embraced more than three thousand
							islands and about thirty different tribes and dialects. The evolution of American
							control there falls into three stages. At first, they were governed by the President
							of the United States under his military authority. In 1901, a civil commission, with
							Mr. W. H. Taft at the head, took over the civil administration of all the pacified
							provinces. In 1902, Congress passed an "organic act" for the Islands, providing that,
							after their pacification, a legislative assembly should be erected. At length, in
							1907, this assembly was duly instituted, and the government now consists of the
							governor, a commission appointed by the President and Senate, and a legislature
							composed of the commission and a lower house of representatives elected by popular
							vote.
						Important as are the problems of governing dependencies, they are not the sole or
							even the most significant aspects of imperialism. The possession of territories gives
							a larger control over the development of their trade and resources; but capital and
							enterprise  seeking an outlet flow to those
							countries where the advantages offered are the greatest, no matter whoever may
							exercise political dominion there. The acquisition of the Philippines was simply an
							episode in the development of American commercial interests in the Orient.
						It was those interests which led the United States to send Caleb Cushing to China in
							1844 to negotiate a treaty with that country securing for Americans rights of trade in
							the ports which had recently been blown open by British guns in the famous "Opium
							War." It was those interests which induced the United States government to send
							Commodore Perry to Japan in 1853 and led to the opening of that nation--long closed to
							the outside world--to American trade and enterprise. After 1844 in China, and 1854 in
							Japan, American trade steadily increased, and American capital seeking investments
							soon began to flow into Chinese business and railway undertakings. Although the United
							States did not attempt to follow the example of Great Britain, Russia, France, and
							Germany in seizing Chinese territory, it did obtain a sufficient economic interest in
							that Empire to warrant the employment of American soldiers in coöperation with
							Russian, English, French, Japanese, and other contingents at the time of the Boxer
							insurrection at Peking in the summer of 1900.
						The policy of the United States at the time won no little praise from the Chinese
							government. Having no territorial ambitions in the Empire, the administration at
							Washington, through Mr. John Hay, Secretary of State, was able to announce that the
							United States  favored an "open door" for trade and the
							maintenance of the territorial integrity of China. "The policy of the Government of
							the United States," said Mr. Hay to the Powers, in the summer of 1900, "is to seek a
							solution which may bring about permanent safety and peace to China, preserve Chinese
							territorial and administrative entity, protect all rights guaranteed to friendly
							powers by treaty and international law, and safeguard for the world the principle of
							equal and impartial trade with all parts of the Chinese empire." This friendly word,
							which was much appreciated by China, was later supplemented by the generous action of
							the United States government in returning to that country a large sum of money which
							had been collected as an indemnity for the injury to American rights in the Boxer
							uprising, and was discovered to be an overcharge due to excessive American claims.
						While thus developing American interests in the Orient, the United States government
							was much embarrassed by the legislation of some of the western states against
							Orientals. Chinese and Japanese laborers were excluded from the country by law or
							agreements, but in spite of this fact there were large numbers of Orientals on the
							coast. This was resented by many whites, particularly trade unionists with whom the
							cheap labor came into competition, and from time to time laws were enacted by state
							legislatures that were alleged to violate the rights which the United States had
							guaranteed to the Chinese or Japanese by treaties with their respective countries.
						Such a dispute occurred a few years ago over an 
							attempt to exclude Japanese children from the regular public schools in San Francisco,
							and again in 1912 in connection with a law of California relative to the acquisition
							of lands by aliens--the naturalization of Orientals being forbidden by Federal law.
							These legal disputes arose from the fact that the Federal government has the power to
							make treaties with foreign countries relative to matters which are entirely within the
							control of state legislatures. The discriminations against the Orientals, coupled with
							the pressure of American interests in the Far East and the presence of American
							dominion in the Philippines, caused no little friction between certain sections of the
							United States and of Japan; and there were some who began, shortly after the Spanish
							War, to speak of the "impending conflict" in the Orient.
					
					
						The Campaign of 1900
						It was inevitable that the new issues, raised by the Spanish War, the acquisition of
							the insular possessions, and the insurrection against American rule in the
							Philippines, should find their way almost immediately into national politics. By the
							logic of their situation, the Republicans were compelled to defend their imperialist
							policy, although it was distasteful to many of the old leaders ; and at their national
							convention, at Philadelphia in June, 1900, they renominated President McKinley by
							acclamation, justified their methods in the dependencies, approved the new commercial
							advances in the Orient, advocated government aid to the merchant  marine, and commended the acquisition of the Hawaiian Islands. The trust
							plank, couched in vague and uncertain terms, was, interestingly enough, drafted by Mr.
							Hanna, who appropriately levied the campaign collections for his party in Wall
								Street.1 Mr. Roosevelt, then
							governor of New York, was nominated for Vice President, although he had refused to
							agree to accept the office. The desire of Senator Platt, the Republican "boss" in New
							York, to put him out of the state threw the "machine" in his favor, and this, combined
							with enthusiasm for him in the West, gave him every vote in the convention save his
							own. Under the circumstances he was forced to accept the nomination.
						The Democrats took up the challenge on "imperialism"; but Mr. Bryan was determined
							not to allow the silver question to sink into an early grave, and he accordingly
							forced the adoption of a free silver plank, as the price of his accepting the
							nomination. The platform was strong in its denunciation of Republican "imperialist"
							policy, in general and in detail. It favored promising the Filipinos stable
							government, independence, and, finally, protection from outside interference. It was
							also more positive on the trust question, and it advocated an increase in the powers
							of the interstate commerce commission, enabling it "to protect individuals and
							communities from discriminations and the people from unjust and unfair transportation
							rates." An effort was made to placate the conservative section of the party by
							offering the nomination to the Vice Presidency to David B. Hill, of New York, and on
							his 1 Croly, Life of Marcus Hanna, p. 307.
							 refusal of the honor it was given to Adlai Stevenson,
							who had held that office during Cleveland's second administration.
						Although many Republicans supported Mr. Bryan on account of their dislike of
							imperialism and its works, the result of the campaign was a second victory for Mr.
							McKinley, even greater than that of 1896. He received a larger popular vote and Mr.
							Bryan a smaller vote than in that year. Of the 447 electors, Mr. McKinley received
							292. This happy outcome he naturally regarded as a vindication of his policies, and he
							was evidently turning toward the future with renewed confidence (as his Buffalo speech
							on reciprocity indicated) when on September 6, 1901, he was shot by an anarchist at
							the Buffalo exposition and died eight days later.
						Mr. Roosevelt immediately took the oath of office, and promised to continue
							"absolutely unbroken" the policy of his predecessor.
					
				


				

				
					CHAPTER IX
						THE DEVELOPMENT OF CAPITALISM
					THE years immediately following the War with Spain were marked by
						extraordinary prosperity in business. The country recovered from the collapse of the
						nineties and entered with full swing into another era of inflation and promotion. The
						Dingley tariff law, enacted July 24, 1897, had incidentally aided in the process by
						raising the protection principle to its highest point since the Civil War, but the
						causes of the upward movement lay deeper. The Spanish War, of course, stimulated trade,
						for destruction on such a large scale always creates a heavy demand for commodities and
						capital--a demand which was partially met, as usual, by huge drafts on the future in the
						form of an increased national debt. But the real cause lay in the nature of the economic
						processes which had produced the periodical cycles of inflation and collapse during the
						nineteenth century. Having recovered from a collapse previous to the War, inflation and
						capitalization on a gigantic scale set in and did not run their course until a débâcle
						in 1907.
					The formation of trusts and the consolidation of older combinations in this period were
						commensurate in scale with the gigantic financial power created by capitalist
						accumulations. The period of the later seventies and eighties, as has been shown, was a
						period of hot competition followed by pools, combinations, and trusts. The  era which followed the Spanish War differed in degree
						rather than in kind, but it was marked by financial operations on a scale which would
						have staggered earlier promoters. Perhaps it would be best to say that the older school
						merely found its real strength at the close of the century, for the new financing was
						done by the Vanderbilt, Astor, Gould, Morgan, and Rockefeller interests, the basis of
						which had been laid earlier. There was, in fact, no break in the process, save that
						which was made by the contraction of the early nineties. But the operations of the new
						era were truly grand in their conception and execution.
					A few examples will serve to illustrate the process. In 1900, the National Sugar
						Refining Company of New Jersey was formed with a capital of $90,000,000, and "from its
						inception it adopted the policy of issuing no public statements to its stockholders
						regarding earnings or financial conditions. The only statement . . . is simply an annual
						balance sheet, showing the assets and liabilities of the corporation in a greatly
						condensed form." In 1904, the total capital of parent and affiliated concerns was
						approximately $145,000,000. The Copper Trust was incorporated under New Jersey laws in
						1899, and in 1904 its par value capital was $175,000,000. In 1899, the Smelters' Trust
						with an authorized capital of about $65,000,000 was formed. In the same year the
						Standard Oil Company, as the successor to the Trust, was organized with $102,233,700
						capital. 
					The process of consolidation may best be shown by turning from generalities to a brief
						study of the United States Steel Corporation, a great portion of whose  business was laid bare in 1911-12 by a Federal
						investigation. It appears that until about 1898 there was a large number of steel
						concerns actively engaged in a competition which was modified at times by pools and
						price agreements; and that each of them was vigorously reaching out, not only for more
						trade, but for control over the chief source of strength--supply of ore. Finally, in the
						closing days of the nineties, this competition and stress for control became so great
						that the steel men and the associated financial interests began to fear that the
						increased facilities for production would result in flooding the market and in ruining a
						number of concerns. The rough steel manufacturers began to push into the field of
						finished products, and the wire, nail, plate, and tube concerns were crowding into the
						rough steel manufacturing. All were scrambling for ore beds. In this "struggle of the
						giants" the leading steel makers saw nothing but disaster, and they set to work to
						consolidate a dozen or more companies. Their labors were crowned with success on April
						1, 1901, when the new corporation with a capital of a little more than $1,400,000,000
						began business.
					In the consolidation of the several concerns an increase of more than $400,000,000 was
						made in the total capital; and a stock commission of the cash value of $62,500,000 was
						given to the Morgan underwriting syndicate for financing the enterprise. It is, of
						course, impossible to discover now the physical value of the properties consolidated,
						many of which were already heavily "watered." Of the Carnegie concern, a Federal report
						says, "The evidence on the whole tends to show  that bonds
						were issued substantially up to the full amount of the physical assets acquired and that
						the stock was issued merely against good will and other intangible considerations." How
						much of the total capital was "water" is impossible to determine, but the Bureau of
						Corporations estimates "that more than $150,000,000 of the stock of the Steel
						Corporation (this including more than $41,000,000 of preferred stock and $109,000,000 of
						common stock) was issued, either directly or indirectly (through exchange) for mere
						promotion or underwriting services. This total, moreover, as noted does not include
						anything for the American Sheet Steel Company . . . nor is anything added in the case of
						the Shelby Steel Tube Company. It should be repeated that this enormous total of over
						$150,000,000 does not include common stock issued as bonus with preferred for property
						or for cash, but simply what may be termed the promotion and organization commissions in
						the strict sense. In other words, nearly one seventh of the total capital stock of the
						Steel Corporation appears to have been issued, either directly or indirectly, to
						promoters for their services." How much more of the $440,000,000 additional capital
						represented something other than physical values is partially a matter of guesswork. The
						Bureau of Corporations valued the tangible property of the corporation at $682,000,000
						in 1901, as against $1,400,000,000 issued securities; and computed the rate of profit
						from 1901 to 1910 on the actual investment at 12 per cent. It should be noted, also,
						that shortly after the formation of the concern the common stock which had been issued
						fell with a crash, and the  outsiders who risked their
						fortunes in the concern were ruined.1
					All of the leading trusts and railways were, even at their inception, intimately
						connected through cross investments and interlocking directorates. Writing in 1904, Mr.
						Moody, an eminent financial authority, said : "Around these two groups [the
						Morgan-Rockefeller interests], or what must ultimately become one greater group, all
						other smaller groups of capitalists congregate. They are all allied and intertwined by
						their various mutual interests. For instance, the Pennsylvania Railroad interests are on
						the one hand allied with the Vanderbilts and on the other with the Rockefellers. The
						Vanderbilts are closely allied with the Morgan group, and both the Pennsylvania and
						Vanderbilt interests have recently become the dominating factors in the Reading system,
						a former Morgan road and the most important part of the anthracite coal combine which
						has always been dominated by the Morgan people. . . . Viewed as a whole, we find the
						dominating influences in the trusts to be made up of an intricate network of large and
						small capitalists, many allied to another by ties of more or less importance, but all
						being appendages to or parts of the greater groups which are themselves dependent on and
						allied with the two mammoth, or Rockefeller and Morgan, groups. These two mammoth groups
						jointly ... constitute the heart of the business and commercial life of the nation."2
					1Report of the
							Commissioner of Corporations on the Steel Industry, July 1, 1911.
					2Moody, The
							Truth about the Trusts, p. 493.


					
					How tremendous is this corporate control over business, output, and wage earners is
						indicated by the census of 1909. Of the total number of establishments reported as
						engaged in manufacturing in 1904, 23.6 per cent were under corporate ownership, while in
						1909 the percentage had increased to 25.9. Although they controlled only about one
						fourth of the total number of establishments, corporations employed 70.6 per cent of all
						the wage earners reported in 1904 and 75.6 per cent in 1909. Still more significant are
						the figures relative to the output of corporations. Of the total value of the product of
						all establishments, 73.7 per cent was turned out by corporations in 1904 and 79 per cent
						in 1909. "In most of the states," runs the Census Report, "between three fifths and nine
						tenths of the total value of manufactured products in 1909 was reported by
						establishments under corporate ownership." Of the 268,491 establishments reported in
						1909, there were 3061 which produced 43.8 per cent of the total value of all products
						and employed 30.5 per cent of the wage earners. It is, in fact, this absorption of
						business by a small number of concerns which marks the great concentration of modern
						industry. The mere number of corporations is not of much significance, for most of them
						are petty.
					In addition to gaining control of the leading manufacturing concerns and the chief
						natural resources of the country, the great capitalist interests seized upon social
						values to the amount of billions of dollars through stock watering and manipulations of
						one kind or another. "Between 1868 and 1872, for example, the share  capital of the Erie was increased from $17,000,000 to $78,000,000, largely
						for the purpose of stock-market manipulation. . . . The original Central Pacific
						Railroad, for instance, actually cost only $58,000,000; it is a matter of record that
						$120,000,000 was paid a construction company for the work. The syndicate which financed
						the road received $62,500,000 par value in securities as profits, a sum greater than it
						actually cost to build the property. The 80 per cent stock dividend of the New York
						Central in 1868; scrip dividends on the Reading in the seventies; the 50 per cent
						dividend of the Atchison in 1881 ; the 100 per cent stock dividends of the Louisville
						and Nashville in 1880, by a pen stroke adding $20,000,000 to 'cost of road' upon the
						balance sheet; the notorious 100 per cent dividend of the Boston and Albany in 1882 [are
						further examples]. . . . Recent inflations of capitalization in connection with railroad
						consolidation are headed by the case of the Rock Island Company. In 1902 this purely
						financial corporation bought up the old Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railway,
						capitalized at $75,000,000 and substituted therefor its own stock to the amount of
						$117,000,000, together with $75,000,000 of collateral trust bonds, secured by the stock
						of the property acquired. The entire history of the New York traction companies is
						studded with similar occurrences. One instance may suffice. In 1906 the
						Interborough-Metropolitan Company purchased $105,540,000 in securities of the merged
						lines, and issued in place thereof $138,309,000 of its own stock and $70,000,000 in
						bonds. . . . E. H. Harriman and three associates . . . expanded the total capitalization
							 of the [Alton] road from $33,950,000 to $114,600,000,
						an increase of over $80,000,000. In improvements and additions to the property out of
						this augmented capitalization, their own accounts showed only about $18,000,000
						expended. It thus appears that securities aggregating $62,600,000 were put forth during
						this time [seven years, beginning in 1898], without one dollar of consideration. This
						sum is equal to about $66,000 per mile of line owned--a figure considerably in excess of
						the average net capitalization of the railroads of the country."1
					It is not necessary to cite further evidence to show that billions of dollars of
						fictitious values were saddled upon the country between the end of the Civil War and the
						close of the century. A considerable portion of the amount of stocks and bonds issued
						was doubtless based on the dividend-paying power of the concerns in question. In many
						instances the stock was not purchased in large quantities by the investing public, but
						was simply issued to promoters, and when values collapsed they only lost so much
						worthless paper. It is apparent, therefore, that all the stock watering is not of the
						same character or effect; but nevertheless it remains a fact that the buying public and
						the working class are paying millions in annual tribute to the holders of paper which
						represents no economic service whatever. If the water were all squeezed out of railway,
						franchise, and industrial stocks and bonds and the mineral and other resources which
						have been actually secured at a nominal value, or fraudulently were returned to the
						government, there 1Professor W. Z. Ripley, Political Science Quarterly, March,
							1911.
						 would be a shrinkage in the necessary dividends paid out
						that would startle the world.
					Those who followed the literature of political economy during this period of gigantic
						consolidation and high finance could not help discovering a decided change in the views
						of leading men about the nature of industrial evolution. The old practice of
						indiscriminate abuse of all trusts began to undergo a decided modification; only persons
						from the backward industrial regions of the West and South continued the inordinate
						clamor for the immediate and unconditional dissolution of all of them, on the theory
						that they were "artificial" products, brought forth and nourished by malicious men bent
						solely upon enhancing their personal fortunes. The socialist contention (set forth by
						Marx and Engels in 1848) that competition destroyed itself, and that the whole movement
						of industry was inevitably toward consolidation, began to receive attention, although
						the socialist solution of the problem was not accepted.
					This change in attitude was the result partly of the testimony of practical business
						men before the Industrial Commission in 1900, which was summarized in the following
						manner by the Commission: "Among the causes which have led to the formation of
						industrial combinations, most of the witnesses were of the opinion that competition, so
						vigorous that profits of nearly all competing establishments were destroyed, is to be
						given the first place. Even Mr. Havemeyer said this, though, as he believed that in many
						cases competition was brought about by the fact that the too high protective tariff had
							 tempted too many rivals into the field, he named the
						customs tariff law as the primal cause. Many of the witnesses say that their
						organization was formed to make economies, to lessen competition, and to get higher
						profits--another way of saying that competition is the cause without conceding that the
						separate plants were forced to combine."
					In a careful and thoughtful analysis of the problem, published in 1900 by Professor J.
						W. Jenks, then of Cornell University, the wastes of competition and the economies of
						combination (within limits) were pointed out with clarity and precision. The Industrial
						Commission had reported that rebates and discriminations by railways had been declared
						to be a leading cause of combination by several witnesses appearing before it; but
						Professor Jenks at the close of his survey came to the positive conclusion "that,
						whenever the nature of the industry is one which is peculiarly adapted for organization
						on a large scale, these peculiarities will so strengthen the tendency toward a virtual
						monopoly that, without legal aid and special discriminations or advantages being granted
						by either the State or any other influence, a combination will be made, and if shrewdly
						managed can and, after more experience in this line has been gained, probably will
						practically control permanently the market, unless special legal efforts better directed
						than any so far attempted shall prevent."1 The logical result of this conclusion is at least government
						supervision, and this Mr. Jenks advocated.
					Whether some special privileges beyond the ownership 1The Trust Problem (1900 ed.),
							p. 210.
						 of basic natural resources was necessary to bring about
						combinations on a large scale, the leaders in such combinations seem to have engaged
						extensively in politics, contributing to the campaign funds of both parties, helping to
						select their candidates, and maintaining expensive lobbies at Washington and at the
						capitals of the several states. Mr. Havemeyer admitted before a Senate committee in 1893
						that the Sugar Trust was "a Democrat in a Democratic state and a Republican in a
						Republican state"; and added that in his opinion all other large corporations made
						contributions to the two leading parties as a matter of course, for "protection." The
						testimony taken by the New York insurance investigating committee in 1905 and by the
						Clapp committee of the United States Senate in 1912 revealed the fact that during the
						period between 1896 and 1912 millions of dollars had been contributed to the Republican
						party by the men who had been most active in organizing the great industrial
						combinations, and that representatives of the same group had also given aid and comfort
						to the Democratic party,1
						although the latter, being out of power at Washington, could not levy tribute with the
						same effectiveness.
					The statesman of the new capitalism was Mr. Marcus A. Hanna. Mr. Hanna was born in 1837
						of pioneer stock of the second or third generation, after the roughness of the earlier
						days was somewhat smoothed away without injury to the virility of the fiber. He entered
						business in Cleveland in 1858 at a time when a remarkable group of business men,
						including Mr. John D. 1 See
							the Parker episode, below, p. 268.
						 Rockefeller, were laying the foundation of their
						fortunes. Endowed with hard, practical, economic sense, he refused to be carried away by
						the enthusiasm that was sweeping thousands of young men of his age into the Union army,
						and he accordingly remained at his post of business.1 It was fortunate for his career that he did not lose those
						four years, for it was then that he made the beginnings of his great estate in coal,
						iron, oil, and merchandising.
					Mr. Hanna, like most of the new generation of northern business men, was an ardent
						Republican. "He went into politics as a citizen," remarks his biographer. "The motive,
						in so far as it was conscious, was undoubtedly patriotic. That he should wish to serve
						his country as well as himself and his family was rooted in his make-up. If he proposed
						to serve his country, a man of his disposition and training could only do so by active
						work in party politics. Patriotism meant to him Republicanism. Good government meant
						chiefly Republican government. Hence the extreme necessity of getting good Republicans
						elected and the absolute identity in his mind and in the minds of most of his generation
						between public and party service."2 In his early days, therefore, he participated in politics in a small way, but
						it was not until 1891, during the candidacy of Mr. McKinley for governor of Ohio, and
						Mr. Sherman for the Senate, that he began to serve his party in a large way by raising
						campaign funds.3
					In 1895 Mr. Hanna retired from active business and 1 Mr. Hanna was drafted in 1864, but saw no
							actual service. Croly, >Marcus A. Hanna, p. 44.
						2 Croly, p. 113.
						3Ibid.,
							p. 160.
						 set about the task of elevating Mr. McKinley to the
						Presidency. He spent a great deal of time at first in the South securing Republican
						delegates from the states where the Republican party was a shadow, and other than party
						considerations entered largely into selection of delegates to the Republican convention.
						While laying a solid foundation in the South, Mr. Hanna bent every effort in capturing
						the delegates in northern states. According to Mr. Croly, "Almost the whole cost of the
						campaign for Mr. McKinley's nomination was paid by Mr. Hanna. . . . He did receive some
						help from Mr. McKinley's personal friends in Ohio and elsewhere, but its amount was
						small compared to the total expenses. First and last Mr. Hanna contributed something
						over $100,000 toward the expense of the canvass."1
					Mr. Hanna firmly believed, and quite naturally too, that the large business concerns
						which had prospered under the policies of the Republican party should contribute
						generously to its support. As early as 1888, when the tariff scare seized certain
						sections of the country, he was selected as financial auxiliary to the Republican
						national committee, and raised about $100,000 in Cleveland, Toledo, Mahoning Valley, and
						adjacent territory.2
					But Mr. Hanna's greatest exploits in financing politics were in connection with Mr.
						McKinley's campaigns. In 1896 he at first encountered some difficulties because of his
						middle western connections and the predilection of Wall Street for Mr. Levi P. Morton in
						preference to Mr. McKinley. "Mr. James J. Hill states that on 1 Croly, p. 183.2Ibid., p. 149.
						 August 15, just when the strenuous work of the campaign
						was beginning, he met Mr. Hanna by accident in New York and found the chairman very much
						discouraged. Mr. Hanna described the kind of work which was planned by the Committee and
						its necessarily heavy expense. He had been trying to raise the needed money, but with
						only small success. The financiers of New York would not contribute. It looked as if he
						might have to curtail his plan of campaign, and he was so disheartened that he talked
						about quitting. Mr. Hill immediately offered to accompany Mr. Hanna on a tour through
						the high places of Wall Street, and during the next five days they succeeded in
						collecting as much money as was immediately necessary. Thereafter Mr. Hanna did not need
						any further personal introduction to the leading American financiers."1
					Many grave charges were brought against Mr. Hanna to the effect that he had no scruples
						in the use of money for corrupt purposes, but such charges have never been substantiated
						to the satisfaction of his friends. That in earlier days he employed the methods which
						were common among public service corporations, is admitted by his biographer, but
						condoned on the ground that practically every other street railway company in the
						country was confronted with the alternative of buying votes or influence. Mr. Hanna's
						Cleveland company "the West Side Street Railway Company and its successors were no
						exception to this rule. It was confronted by its competitors, who had no scruples about
						employing customary methods, and if it had been more scrupulous 1Croly, p. 219.
						 than they, its competitors would have carried off all the
						prizes. Mr. Hanna had, as I have said, a way of making straight for his goal. . . . He
						and his company did what was necessary to obtain the additional franchises needed for
						the development of the system. The railroad contributed to local campaign committees and
						the election expenses of particular councilmen; and it did so for the purpose of
						exercising an effective influence over the action of the council in street railway
							matters."1
					Grave charges were also made at the time of Mr. Hanna's candidacy for the United States
						Senate that he employed the methods which he had found so advantageous in
						public-service-corporation politics, but his biographer, Mr. Croly, indignantly denies
						the allegation, showing very conclusively that Mr. Hanna won his nomination squarely on
						the issue put before the Republican voters and was under the rules of politics entitled
						to the election by the legislature. Mr. Hanna's career, says Mr. Croly, "demanded an
						honorable victory. Like every honest man he had conscientious scruples about buying
						votes for his own political benefit, and his conscience when aroused was dictatorial. .
						. . It does not follow that no money was corruptly used for Mr. Hanna's benefit.
						Columbus [Ohio] was full of rich friends less scrupulous than he. . . . They may have
						been willing to spend money in Mr. Hanna's interest and without his knowledge. Whether
						as a matter of fact any such money was spent I do not know, but under the circumstances
						the possibility thereof should be frankly admitted."2

					1 Croly, p. 81.
					2Ibid., p.
						264.


					
					In his political science as well as his business of politics, Mr. Hanna looked to the
						instant need of things. He does not seem to have been a student of history or of the
						experience of his own or other countries in the field of social legislation. As United
						States Senator he made practically no speeches, if we except his remarks in favor of
						ship subsidies and liberal treatment of armor plate manufacturers. On the stump, for in
						later years he developed some facility in popular addresses, he confined his reflections
						to the customary generalizations about prosperity and his chief contribution to
						political phraseology was the slogan, "Stand pat."1 When not engaged in actual labor of partisan contests, Mr.
						Hanna seems to have enjoyed the pleasure of the table and good company rather than the
						arduous researches of the student of politics. He had an immense amount of shrewd
						practical sense, and he divined a good deal more by his native powers of quick
						perception than many a statesman of the old school, celebrated for his profundity as a
						"constitutional lawyer and jurist."
					The complete clew to Mr. Hanna's philosophy of politics is thus summed up by his
						penetrating and sympathetic biographer, Mr. Croly: "We must bear in mind that (1) he was
						an industrial pioneer and instinctively took to politics as well as to business; (2)
						that in politics as in business he wanted to accomplish results; (3) that politics meant
						to him active party service; (4) that successful party service meant to him the
						acceptance of prevailing political methods and abuses; 1 Croly, p. 417.
						 and (5) finally that he was bound by the instinctive
						consistency of his nature to represent in politics, not merely his other dominant
						interest, but the essential harmony between the interests of business and that of the
						whole community." In other words, Mr. Hanna believed consistently and honestly in the
						superior fitness of business men to conduct the politics of a country which was
						predominantly commercial in character. He was not unaware of the existence of a working
						class; in fact he was said to be a generous and sympathetic employer of labor; but he
						could not conceive the use of government instrumentalities frankly in behalf of that
						class. Indeed, he thought that the chief function of the government was to help business
						and not to inquire into its methods or interfere with its processes.
					An illustration of Mr. Hanna's theory of governmental impotence in the presence of the
						dominant private interests was afforded in the debate in the Senate over the price to be
						paid for armor plate, in the summer of 1900. The Senate proposed that not more than a
						stipulated price should be paid to the two steel companies, Carnegie and Bethlehem,
						which were not competing with each other; and that, in case they failed to accept, a
						government manufacturing plant should be erected. Mr. Hanna's proposition was that the
						price of steel should be left, as the House had proposed, with the Secretary of the
						Navy, and he warmly resisted all government interference. When it was brought out in
						debate that the steel companies had refused the government officers the data upon which
						to determine whether the price  charged was too high, Mr.
						Hanna declared: "They did perfectly right in not disclosing those facts. That is their
						business; and if they chose not to give the information to the public, that was their
						business also." In short, he took the position that the government should provide ample
						protection to the steel interests against foreign competition, and pay substantially
						whatever the steel companies might charge for armor plate (for without proper data the
						Secretary of the Navy could not know when prices were reasonable), and then ask them no
						questions whatever. Here we have both laissez faire and capitalism in
						their simplest form.
					Mr. Hanna, however, had none of the arts of the demagogue, not even the minor and least
						objectional arts. His bluntness and directness in labor conflicts won for him the
						respect of large numbers of his employees. His frank and open advocacy of ship subsidies
						and similar devices commanded the regard, if not the esteem, of his political enemies.
						His chief faults, as viewed by his colleagues as well as his enemies, were in many
						instances his leading virtues. If some of the policies and tactics which he resorted to
						are now discredited in politics, it must be admitted that he did not invent them, and
						that it was his open and clean-cut advocacy of them that first made them clearly
						intelligible to the public. When all the minor and incidental details and personalities
						of the conflicts in which he was engaged are forgotten, Mr. Hanna will stand out in
						history as the most resourceful and typical representative of the new capitalism which
						closed the nineteenth century and opened the new.


					
					
						The Development of the Urban Population
						The rapid advance of business enterprise which followed the Spanish War made more
							striking than ever the social results of the industrial revolution.1 In the first place, there was a notable
							growth in the urban as contrasted with the rural population. At the close of the
							century more than one third of the population had become city dwellers. The census of
							1910 classified as urban all thickly populated areas of more than 2500 inhabitants,
							including New England towns which are in part rural in character, and on this basis
							reported 46.3 per cent of the population of the United States as urban and 53.7 rural.
							On this basis, 92.8 per cent of the population of Massachusetts was reported as urban,
							78.8 per cent in New York, and 60.4 per cent in Pennsylvania. That census also
							reported that "the rate of increase for the population of urban areas was over three
							times that for the population living in rural territory."
						The industrial section of this urban population was largely composed of non-home
							owners. The census of 1900 reported "that the largest proportion of hired homes, 87.9
							per cent, is found in New York City. In Manhattan and Bronx boroughs the proportion is
							even higher, 94.1 per cent, as compared with 82 per cent for Brooklyn. . . . There is
							also a very large proportion of hired homes in Boston, Fall River, Jersey City, and
							Memphis, constituting in each of them four fifths of all the homes in 1900." Of the
							great cities having a large proportion of home owners, Detroit stood at the 1See above, Chap. II.
							 head, with 22.5 per cent of the population owning homes
							free of mortgage.
						Another feature of the evolution of the working class was the influx of foreign
							labor, and the change in its racial character. The total alien immigration between
							1880 and 1900 amounted to about 9,000,000; and in 1905 the immigration for the fiscal
							year reached 1,026,449. For the fiscal year 1910 it reached 1,198,037. During this
							period the racial composition of the immigration changed decidedly. Before 1880 Celtic
							and Teutonic nations furnished three fourths of the immigrants; but in 1905 the
							proportions were reversed and Slavic and Iberian nations, Italy leading, sent three
							fourths of the immigrants.
						This alien population drifted naturally to the industrial cities, and the census of
							1910 reported that of the 229 cities having 25,000 inhabitants and more, the native
							whites of native parentage furnished only 35.6 per cent, and that the foreign-born
							whites constituted 44.5 per cent in Perth Amboy, New Jersey, 40.4 per cent in New York
							City, and 35.7 per cent in Chicago. From the standpoint of politics, a significant
							feature of this development is the manning of American industries largely by foreign
							laborers who as aliens possess no share in the government.
						A third important aspect of this transformation in the mass of the population is the
							extensive employment of women in industries. The census of 1910 reported that 19.5 per
							cent of the industrial wage earners were women, and that the proportion of women
							breadwinners was steadily increasing. The proportion of females who  were engaged in gainful pursuits was 14.7 per cent in
							1870, 16 per cent in 1880, 19 per cent in 1890, and 20.6 per cent in 1900. At the last
							date, about one third of the females over ten years of age in Philadelphia were
							engaged in gainful pursuits, and one eighth were employed in industries. At the same
							time about 15,000 out of 42,000 women at Fall River, Massachusetts, were in
							industries.
					
					
						The Labor Movement
						The centralization of capital and the development of the new statesmen of Mr. Hanna's
							school were accompanied by a consolidation of the laboring classes and the evolution
							of a more definite political program for labor. As has been pointed out above, the
							economic revolution which followed the Civil War was attended by the formation of
							unions in certain trades and by the establishment of the Knights of Labor. This
							national organization was based on the principle that all of the working class could
							be brought together in a great society, equipped for waging strikes in the field of
							industry and advancing a program of labor legislation at the same time. This society,
							like a similar one promoted by Robert Owen in England half a century before, fell to
							pieces on account of its inherent weaknesses, particularly the inability of the
							leaders to overcome the indifference of the workingmen in prosperous trades to the
							struggles of their less fortunate brethren.
						Following the experience of England also, the labor leaders began to build on a more
							secure foundation;  namely, the organization of the
							members of specific trades into local unions followed by their amalgamation into
							larger societies. Having failed to stir a class consciousness, they fell back upon the
							trade or group consciousness of identical interests. In 1881, ninety-five trade-unions
							were federated on a national scale, and in 1886 this society was reorganized as the
							American Federation of Labor. The more radical labor men went on with the Knights, but
							the foundations of that society were sapped by the more solidly organized rival,
							which, in spite of many defeats and reverses, steadily increased in its membership and
							strength. In 1910 the Federation reported that its affiliations included 120
							international unions, 39 state federations, 632 city central bodies, 431 local
							trade-unions, and 216 Federal labor unions, with a membership totaling 1,744,444
							persons.
						Unlike German and English trade-unionists, the American Federation of Labor steadily
							refused to go into politics as a separate party contesting at the polls for the
							election of "labor" representatives. This abstention from direct political action was
							a matter of expediency, it seems, rather than of set principle. Mr. John Mitchell, the
							eminent former leader of the miners, declared that "wage earners should in proportion
							to their strength secure the nomination and election of a number of representatives to
							the governing bodies of city, state, and nation"; but he added that "a third Labor
							Party is not for the present desirable, because it could not obtain a majority and
							could not therefore force its will upon the community at large." This view, Mr.
							Mitchell  admitted, was merely temporary and due to
							circumstances, for he frankly said: "Should it come to pass that the two great
							American political parties oppose labor legislation as they now favor it, it would be
							the imperative duty of unionists to form a third party to secure some measure of
							reform." This was also substantially the position taken by the President of the
							American Federation, Mr. Gompers.
						But it is not to be supposed that the American Federation of Labor refused to
							consider the question of labor in politics. Its prominent leaders were affiliated with
							the American Civic Federation, composed largely of employers of labor, professional
							men, and philanthropists, and known as one of the most powerful anti-socialist
							organizations in the United States. Not only were Mr. Gompers and other labor leaders
							associated with this society which strongly opposed the formation of a class party in
							the United States, but they steadily waged war on the socialists who were attempting
							to organize the working class politically. The leaders in the American Federation,
							with a few exceptions, were thus definitely anti-socialist and were on record on this
							political issue. Moreover, while warning workingmen against political action, Mr.
							Gompers and Mr. Mitchell openly identified themselves with the Democratic party and
							endeavored to swing the working class vote to that party. Mr. Gompers was especially
							active in the support of Mr. Bryan in 1908, and boasted that 80 per cent of the voting
							members of the Federation cast their ballots for the Democratic candidate.
						In fact, a study of the writings and speeches of the 
							leaders in the American Federation of Labor shows that they had a fairly definite
							politico-economic program, although they did not admit it. They favored in general
							municipal and government ownership of what are called "natural" monopolies, and they
							sympathized with the smaller business men in their attempt to break up the great
							industrial corporations against which organized labor had been able to make little
							headway. They supported all kinds of labor legislation, such as a minimum wage,
							workmen's compensation, sanitary laws for factories, the shortening of hours,
							prohibition of child labor, insurance against accidents, sickness and old age
							pensions, and industrial education. They were also on record in favor of such
							political reforms as the initiative, referendum, and recall, and they were especially
							vigorous in their efforts to curtail the power of the courts to issue injunctions
							against strikers. In other words, they leaned decidedly toward "state socialism" and
							expected to secure their ends by supporting the Democratic party, historically the
							party of individualism, and laissez faire. This apparent anomaly is
							explained by the fact that state socialism does not imply the political triumph of the
							working class, but rather the strengthening of the petty bourgeoisie against great
							capitalists.
						It would be a mistake, however, to conclude that the American Federation of Labor was
							solidly in support of Mr. Gompers' program. On the contrary, at each national
							convention of the Federation the socialist members attempted to carry the organization
							over into direct political action. These attempts were defeated each year, but close
							observers of the labor movement  discovered that the
							socialists were electing a large number of local and state trade-union officials, and
							those who hope to keep the organization in the old paths are anxious about the outcome
							at the end of Mr. Gompers' long service.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER X
						THE ADMINISTRATIONS OF THEODORE ROOSEVELT
					THE administrations of Mr. Roosevelt cannot be characterized by a
						general phrase, although they will doubtless be regarded by historians as marking an
						epoch in the political history of the United States. If we search for great and
						significant social and economic legislation during that period, we shall hardly find it,
						nor can we discover in his numerous and voluminous messages much that is concrete in
						spite of their immense suggestiveness. The adoption of the income tax amendment, the
						passage of the amendment for popular election of Senators, the establishment of parcel
						post and postal savings banks, and the successful prosecution of trusts and
						combinations,--all these achievements belong in time to the administration of Mr. Taft,
						although it will be claimed by some that they were but a fruition of plans laid or
						policies advocated by Mr. Roosevelt.
					One who attempts to estimate and evaluate those eight years of multifarious activity
						will find it difficult to separate the transient and spectacular from the permanent and
						fundamental. In the foreground stand the interference in the coal strike, the
						acquisition of the Panama Canal strip, voluminous messages discussing every aspect of
						our complex social and political life, vigorous and spirited interference with state
						elections, as  in the case of Mr. Hearst's campaign in New
						York, and in city politics, as in the case of Mr. Burton's contest in Cleveland, Ohio,
						the pressing of the idea of conserving natural resources upon the public mind,
						acrimonious disputes with private citizens like Mr. Harriman, and, finally, the closing
						days of bitter hostilities with Congress over the Tennessee Coal and Iron affair and
						appropriations for special detectives to be at executive disposal.
					
						Mr. Roosevelt's Doctrines
						During those years the country was much torn with the scandals arising from
							investigations, such as the life insurance inquest in New York, which revealed grave
							lapses from the paths of rectitude on the part of men high in public esteem, and gross
							and vulgar use of money in campaigns. No little of the discredit connected with these
							affairs fell upon the Republican party, not because its methods were shown to be worse
							in general than those of the Democrats, but because it happened to be in power. The
							great task of counteracting this discontent fell upon Mr. Roosevelt, who smote with
							many a message the money changers in the temple of his own party, and convinced a
							large portion of the country that he had not only driven them out but had refused all
							association with them.
						Mr. Roosevelt was thus quick to catch the prevailing public temper. "It makes not a
							particle of difference," he said in 1907, "whether these crimes are committed by a
							capitalist or by a laborer, by a leading banker or 
							manufacturer or railroad man, or by a leading representative of a labor union.
							Swindling in stocks, corrupting legislatures, making fortunes by the inflation of
							securities, by wrecking railroads, by destroying competitors through rebates,--these
							forms of wrongdoing in the capitalist are far more infamous than any ordinary form of
							embezzlement or forgery. . .. The business man who condones such conduct stands on a
							level with the labor man who deliberately supports a corrupt demagogue and
							agitator."
						Any one who takes the trouble to examine with care Mr. Roosevelt's messages and other
							public utterances during the period of his administration will discover the elements
							of many of his policies which later took more precise form.
						In his first message to Congress, on December 3, 1901, Mr. Roosevelt gave
							considerable attention to trusts and collateral economic problems. He refused to
							concede the oft-repeated claim that great fortunes were the product of special legal
							privileges. "The creation of these great corporate fortunes," he said, "has not been
							due to the tariff nor to any other governmental action, but to natural causes in the
							business world, operating in other countries as they operate in our own. The process
							has aroused much antagonism, a great part of which is wholly without warrant. It is
							not true that as the rich have grown richer, the poor have grown poorer. On the
							contrary, never before has the average man, the wage worker, the farmer, the small
							trader, been so well off as in this country at the present time. There have been  abuses connected with the accumulation of wealth; yet it
							remains true that a fortune accumulated in legitimate business can be accumulated by
							the person specially benefitted only on condition of conferring immense incidental
							benefits upon others."
						While thus contending that large fortunes in the main were the product of "natural
							economic forces," Mr. Roosevelt admitted that some grave evils had arisen in
							connection with combinations and trusts, and foreshadowed in his proposed remedial
							legislation the policy of regulation and new nationalism. "When the Constitution was
							adopted, at the end of the eighteenth century, no human wisdom could foretell the
							sweeping changes, alike in industrial and political conditions, which were to take
							place by the beginning of the twentieth century. At that time it was accepted as a
							matter of course that the several states were the proper authorities to regulate . . .
							the comparatively insignificant and strictly localized corporate bodies of the day.
							The conditions are now wholly different, and a wholly different action is called for."
							The remedy he proposed was publicity for corporate affairs, the regulation, not the
							prohibition, of great combinations, the elimination of specific abuses such as
							overcapitalization, and government supervision. If the powers of Congress, under the
							Constitution, were inadequate, then a constitutional amendment should be submitted
							conferring the proper power. The Interstate Commerce Act should likewise be amended.
							"The railway is a public servant. Its rates should be just to and open to all shippers
							alike. The Government should see to it that within its 
							jurisdiction this is so." Conservation of natural resources, irrigation plans, the
							creation of a department of Commerce and Labor, army and navy reform, and the
							construction of the Panama Canal were also recommended at the same time (1901).
						In this message, nearly all of Mr. Roosevelt's later policies as President are
							presaged, and in it also are marked the spirit and phraseology which have done so much
							to make him the idol of the American middle class, and particularly of the social
							reformer. There are, for instance, many little aphorisms which appeal to the moral
							sentiments. "When all is said and done," he says, "the rule of brotherhood remains as
							the indispensable prerequisite to success in the kind of national life for which we
							are to strive. Each man must work for himself, and unless he so works no outside help
							can avail him; but each man must remember also that he is indeed his brother's keeper,
							and that, while no man who refuses to walk can be carried with advantage to himself or
							any one else, yet each at times stumbles or halts, each at times needs to have the
							helping hand outstretched to him." The "reckless agitator" and anarchist are dealt
							with in a summary fashion, and emphasis is laid on the primitive virtues of honesty,
							sobriety, industry, and self-restraint. The new phrases of the social reformer also
							appear side by side with the exclamations of virtuous indignation: "social
							betterment," "sociological law," "rule of brotherhood," "high aims," "foolish
							visionary," "equity between man and man"--in fact the whole range of the terminology
							of social "uplift."
						None of Mr. Roosevelt's later messages added 
							anything new by way of economic doctrine or moral principle. The same notions recurred
							again and again, often in almost identical language and frequently in the form of long
							quotations from previous messages. But there appeared from time to time different
							concrete proposals, elaborating those already suggested to Congress. The tariff he
							occasionally touched upon, but never at great length or with much emphasis. He
							frequently reiterated the doctrine that the country was committed to protection, that
							the tariff was not responsible for the growth of combinations and trusts, and that no
							economic question of moment could be solved by its revision or abandonment.
						As to the trusts, Mr. Roosevelt consistently maintained the position which he had
							taken as governor of New York and had stated in his first message; namely, that most
							of the legislation against trusts was futile and that publicity and governmental
							supervision were the only methods of approaching the question which the logic of
							events admitted. In his message of December, 1907, he said: "The anti-trust law should
							not be repealed; but it should be made more efficient and more in harmony with actual
							conditions. It should be so amended as to forbid only the kind of combination which
							does harm to the general public, such amendment to be accompanied by, or to be an
							incident of, a grant of supervisory power to the Government over these big concerns
							engaged in interstate business. This should be accompanied by provision for the
							compulsory publication of accounts and the subjection of books and papers to the
							inspection of the Government officials. . .. The 
							Congress has the power to charter corporations to engage in interstate and foreign
							commerce, and a general law can be enacted under the provisions of which existing
							corporations could take out federal charters and new federal corporations could be
							created. An essential provision of such a law should be a method of predetermining by
							some federal board or commission whether the applicant for a federal charter was an
							association or combination within the restrictions of the federal law. Provision
							should also be made for complete publicity in all matters affecting the public, and
							complete protection to the investing public and the shareholders in the matter of
							issuing corporate securities. If an incorporation law is not deemed advisable, a
							license act for big interstate corporations might be enacted; or a combination of the
							two might be tried. The supervision established might be analogous to that now
							exercised over national banks. At least, the anti-trust act should be supplemented by
							specific prohibitions of the methods which experience has shown have been of most
							service in enabling monopolistic combinations to crush out competition. The real
							owners of a corporation should be compelled to do business in their own name. The
							right to hold stock in other corporations should be denied to interstate corporations,
							unless on approval by the proper Government officials, and a prerequisite to such
							approval should be the listing with the Government of all owners and stockholders,
							both by the corporation owning such stock and by the corporation in which such stock
							is owned."
						With that prescience which characterized his political career from his entrance into
							politics, Mr. Roosevelt  foresaw that it was impossible
							for capitalists in the United States to postpone those milder reforms, such as
							employers' liability, which had been accepted in the enlightened countries of Europe
							long before the close of the nineteenth century. In his message of December 3, 1907,
							he pointed out that "the number of accidents to wage-workers, including those that are
							preventable and those that are not, has become appalling in the mechanical,
							manufacturing and transportation operations of the day. It works grim hardship to the
							ordinary wage-worker and his family to have the effect of such an accident fall
							solely upon him." Mr. Roosevelt thereupon recommended the strengthening of the
							employers' liability law which had been recently passed by Congress, and urged upon
							that body "the enactment of a law which will . . . bring federal legislation up to the
							standard already established by all European countries, and which will serve as a
							stimulus to the various states to perfect their legislation in this regard."
						As has been pointed out above, Mr. Roosevelt, in all of his recommendations, took the
							ground that the prevailing system of production and distribution of wealth was
							essentially sound, that substantial justice was now being worked out between man and
							man, and that only a few painful excrescences needed to be lopped off. Only on one
							occasion, it seems, did he advise the adoption of any measures affecting directly the
							distribution of acquired wealth. In his message of December 3, 1907, he declared that
							when our tax laws were revised, the question of inheritance and income taxes should be
							carefully considered. He spoke with diffidence of the 
							latter because of the difficulties of evasion involved, and the decision of the
							Supreme Court in 1895. "Nevertheless," he said, "a graduated income tax of the proper
							type would be a desirable feature of federal taxation, and it is to be hoped that one
							may be devised which the Supreme Court will declare constitutional." The inheritance
							tax was, in his opinion, however, preferable; such a tax had been upheld by the Court
							and was "far more important for the purpose of having the fortunes of the country bear
							in proportion to their increase in size a corresponding increase and burden of
							taxation." He accordingly approved the principle of a progressive inheritance tax,
							increasing to perhaps 25 per cent in the case of distant relatives.
						While advocating social reforms and castigating wrongdoers at home, Mr. Roosevelt was
							equally severe in dealing with Latin-American states which failed to discharge their
							obligations to other countries faithfully. In his message of December, 1905, he said:
							"We must make it evident that we do not intend to permit the Monroe doctrine to be
							used by any nation on this continent as a shield to protect it from the consequences
							of its own misdeeds against foreign nations. If a republic to the south of us commits
							a tort against a foreign nation, such as an outrage against a citizen of that nation,
							then the Monroe doctrine does not force us to interfere to prevent the punishment of
							the tort, save to see that the punishment does not assume the form of territorial
							occupation in any shape. The case is more difficult when it refers to a contractual
							obligation. . . . The country would certainly decline to go to war to  prevent a foreign government from collecting a just debt;
							on the other hand it is very inadvisable to permit any foreign power to take
							possession, even temporarily, of the custom houses of an American republic in order to
							enforce the payment of its obligations; for such a temporary occupation might turn
							into a permanent occupation. The only escape from these alternatives may at any time
							be that we must ourselves undertake to bring about some arrangement by which so much
							as possible of a just obligation shall be paid."
						Mr. Roosevelt's messages and various activities while he was serving the unexpired
							term of President McKinley upset all of the conservative traditions of the executive
							office. He intervened, without power, in the anthracite coal strike of 1902, and had
							the satisfaction of seeing the miners make substantial gains at the hands of a
							commission appointed by himself, to which the contestants had agreed to submit the
							issues. He began a prosecution of the Northern Securities Company at a time when such
							actions against great combinations of capital were unfashionable. He forced an
							investigation of the post-office administration in 1903, which revealed frauds of
							huge dimensions; and he gave the administration of public lands a turning over which
							led to the successful criminal prosecution of two United States Senators. Citizens
							acquired the habit of looking to the headlines of the morning paper for some new and
							startling activity on the part of the President. Politicians of the old school in both
							parties, who had been used to settling difficulties by quiet conferences within the
							 "organization," stood aghast. They did not like Mr.
							Roosevelt's methods which they characterized as "erratic"; but the death of Mr. Hanna
							in February, 1904, took away the only forceful leader who might have consolidated the
							opposition within Republican ranks.
					
					
						The Campaign of 1904
						Nevertheless the rumor was vigorously circulated that Mr. Roosevelt was violently
							opposed by "Wall Street and the Trusts." Whatever may have been the source of this
							rumor it only enhanced the President's popularity. In December, 1903, Senator O. H.
							Platt wrote: "I do not know how much importance to attach to the current opposition to
							Roosevelt by what are called the 'corporate and money influences' in New York. . . .
							There is a great deal said about it, as if it were widespread and violent. I know that
							it does not include the whole of that class of people, because I know many bankers and
							capitalists, railroad and business men who are his strong, good friends, and they are
							not among the smaller and weaker parties, either. . . . Now it is a great mistake for
							capitalistic interests to oppose Roosevelt. . . . I think he will be nominated by
							acclamation, so what is to be gained by the Wall Street contingent and the railroad
							interests in this seeming opposition to him? . . . There is no Republican in the
							United States who can be elected except Roosevelt. . . . He is going to be the
							people's candidate, not the candidate of the trusts or of the hoodlums, but of the
							conservative elements." 

						

						The Republican convention in 1904 was uneventful beyond measure. Though Mr. Roosevelt
							was disliked by many members of his party, his nomination was unavoidable, and even
							his opponents abstained from any word or deed that might have disturbed the concord of
							the occasion. The management of the convention was principally in the hands of the men
							from whom Mr. Roosevelt afterward broke and stigmatized as "reactionary." Mr. Elihu
							Root was temporary chairman, Mr. Joseph G. Cannon was permanent chairman, Mr. Henry
							Cabot Lodge was chairman of the committee on resolutions which reported the platform,
							Mr. W. M. Crane and Mr. Boies Penrose were selected as members of the national
							committee from their respective states, and Mr. Frank S. Black, of New York, made the
							speech nominating Mr. Roosevelt. Throughout, the proceedings were harmonious; the
							platform and the nomination were accepted vociferously without a dissenting vote.
						The Republican platform of 1904 gave no recognition of any of the newer social and
							economic problems which were soon to rend that party in twain. After the fashion of
							announcements made by parties already in power, it laid great emphasis upon Republican
							achievements since the great victory of 1896. A protective tariff under which all
							industries had revived and prospered had been enacted; public credit was now restored,
							Cuban independence established, peace, freedom, order, and prosperity given to Porto
							Rico, the Philippine Islands endowed with the largest civil liberty ever enjoyed
							there, the laws against unjust discriminations by 
							vast aggregations of capital fearlessly enforced, and the gold standard upheld. The
							program of positive action included nothing new: extension of foreign markets,
							encouragement of American shipping, enforcement of the Fourteenth Amendment wherever
							the suffrage had been curtailed, and indorsement of civil service, international
							arbitration, and liberal pensions. The trust plank was noncommittal as to concrete
							policy: "Combinations of capital and of labor are the results of the economic movement
							of the age, but neither must be permitted to infringe the rights and interests of the
							people. Such combinations, when lawfully formed for lawful purposes, are alike
							entitled to the protection of the laws, but both are subject to the laws and neither
							can be permitted to break them."
						In their campaign book for 1904, the Republican leaders exhibited Mr. Roosevelt as
							the ideal American in a superlative degree. "Theodore Roosevelt's character," runs the
							eulogy, "is no topic for difference of opinion or for party controversy. It is without
							mystery or concealment. It has the primary qualities that in all ages have been
							admired and respected: physical prowess, great energy and vitality,
							straightforwardness and moral courage, promptness in action, talent for leadership. .
							. . Theodore Roosevelt, as a typical personality, has won the hearty confidence of the
							American people; and he has not shrunk from recognizing and using his influence as an
							advocate of the best standards of personal, domestic, and civic life in the country.
							He has made these things relating to life and conduct a favorite theme in speech and
							essay and he has diligently  practiced what he preached.
							Thus he has become a power for wholesomeness in every department of our life as a
							people."
						The Democratic nominee, Mr. Alton B. Parker, failed to elicit any enthusiasm in the
							rank and file of the party. He had supported the Democratic candidate at a time when
							many of his conservative friends had repudiated Mr. Bryan altogether, and thus he
							could not be branded as a "bolter." But Mr. Parker's long term of service as judge of
							the highest court of New York, his remoteness from actual partisan controversies, his
							refusal to plunge into a whirlwind stumping campaign, and his dignified reserve, all
							combined to prevent his getting a grip upon the popular imagination. His weakness was
							further increased by the half-hearted support given by Mr. Bryan who openly declared
							the party to be under the control of the "Wall Street element," but confessed that he
							intended to give his vote to Mr. Parker, although the latter, in a telegram to the
							nominating convention at St. Louis, had announced his unflinching adherence to the
							gold standard.
						The Democratic platform, except in its denunciation of the Republican administration,
							was as indefinite as the occasion demanded. Independence should be promised to the
							Filipinos at the proper time and under proper circumstances; there should be a
							revision and gradual reduction of the tariff by "the friends of the masses"; United
							States Senators should be elected by popular vote; combinations and trusts which
							restrict competition, control production, or fix prices and wages  should be forbidden and punished by law. The
							administration of Mr. Roosevelt was denounced as "spasmodic, erratic, sensational,
							spectacular, and arbitrary," and the proposal of the Republican platform to enforce
							the Fourteenth Amendment was condemned as "Bourbon-like, selfish, and narrow,"
							and designed to kindle anew the embers of racial and sectional strife. Constitutional,
							simple, and orderly government was promised, affording no sensations, offering no
							organic changes in the political or economic structure, and making no departures from
							the government "as framed and established by the fathers of the Republic."
						The only extraordinary incident in the campaign of 1904 occurred toward the closing
							days, when Mr. Parker repeatedly charged that the Republican party was being financed
							by contributions from corporations and trust magnates. The Democratic candidate also
							declared that Mr. Cortelyou, as Secretary of Commerce and Labor, had acquired through
							the use of official inquisitorial powers inside information as to the practices of
							trusts, and that as chairman of the Republican national committee, he had used his
							special knowledge to extort contributions from corporations. These corrupt and
							debasing methods had, in the opinion of Mr. Parker, threatened the integrity of the
							republic and transformed the government of the people into "a government whose
							officers are practically chosen by a handful of corporate managers, who levy upon the
							assets of the stockholders whom they represent such sums of money as they deem
							requisite to place the conduct of the Government in 
							such hands as they consider best for their private interests."
						These grave charges were made as early as October 24, and it was expected that Mr.
							Cortelyou would reply immediately, particularly as Mr. Parker was repeating and
							amplifying them. However, no formal answer came until November 5, three days before
							the election, when a countercharge was impossible. On that date Mr. Roosevelt issued a
							signed statement, analyzing the charges of his opponent, and closing with the positive
							declaration that "the statements made by Mr. Parker are unqualifiedly and atrociously
							false."
						No doubt it would have been difficult for Mr. Parker to have substantiated many of
							the details in his charges, but the general truth of his contention that the
							Republican campaign was financed by railway and trust magnates was later established
							by the life insurance investigation in New York in 1905, by the exposures of trust
							methods by Mr. Hearst in the publication of Standard Oil Letters, and by the
							revelations made before the Clapp committee of the Senate in 1912. It is true, Mr.
							Roosevelt asserted that he knew nothing personally about the corporation
							contributions, particularly the Standard Oil gifts, and although he convinced his
							friends of his entire innocence in the matter, seasoned politicians could hardly
							understand a naïveté so far outside the range of their experience.
						The Democratic candidate and his friends took open pleasure in the discomfiture
							produced in Republican ranks by these unpleasant revelations, but no little bitterness
							was added to their cup of joy by the other side  of the
							story. During the life insurance investigation one of the life insurance officers
							declared: "My life was made weary by the Democratic candidates chasing for money in
							that campaign. Some of the very men who to-day are being interviewed in the papers as
							denouncing the men who contribute to campaigns,--their shadows were crossing my path
							every step I took." Later, before the Clapp committee in 1912, Mr. August Belmont and
							Mr. T. F. Ryan, corporation magnates with wide-reaching financial interests,--the
							latter particularly famous for his Tobacco Trust affiliations,--testified that they
							had underwritten Mr. Parker's campaign to the amount of several hundred thousand
							dollars. Independent newspapers remarked that it seemed to be another case of the
							kettle and the pot.
						That the conservative interests looked to the Republican party, if not to Mr.
							Roosevelt, for the preservation of good order in politics and the prevention of
							radical legislation, is shown by the campaign contributions on the part of those who
							had earlier financed Mr. Hanna. In 1907 a letter from the railroad magnate, Mr. E. H.
							Harriman, was made public, in which the writer declared that Mr. Roosevelt had invited
							him to Washington in the autumn of 1904, just before the election, that at the
							President's request he had raised $250,000 to help carry New York state, and that he
							had paid the money over to the Republican treasurer, Mr. Bliss. Mr. Roosevelt
							indignantly denied that he had requested Mr. Harriman to raise a dollar for "the
							Presidential campaign of 1904." It will be noted that Mr. Roosevelt here made a
							distinction between the state and national campaign. 
							This distinction he again drew during the United States Senate investigation in 1912,
							when it became apparent that the Standard Oil Trust had made a large contribution to
							the Republican politicians in 1904. From his testimony, it would appear that Mr.
							Roosevelt was unaware of the economic forces which carried him to victory in 1904.
							Indeed, from the election returns, he was justified in regarding his victory as a
							foregone conclusion, even if the financiers of the party had not taken such extensive
							precautions.
						The election returns in 1904 showed that the Democratic candidate had failed to
							engage the enthusiasm of his party, for the vote cast for him was more than a million
							and a quarter short of that cast for Mr. Bryan in 1900. The personal popularity of Mr.
							Roosevelt was fully evidenced in the electoral and popular votes. Of the former he
							secured 336 against 140 cast for his opponent, and of the latter he polled nearly
							400,000 more than Mr. McKinley. Nevertheless the total vote throughout the country was
							nearly half a million under that of 1900, showing an undoubted apathy or a
							dissatisfaction with the two old parties. This dissatisfaction was further
							demonstrated in a startling way by the heavy increase in the socialist ranks, a jump
							from about 95,000 in 1900 to more than 400,000.
					
					
						The Achievements of Mr. Roosevelt's Administrations
						Doubtless the most significant of all the laws enacted during Mr. Roosevelt's
							administrations was the Hepburn Act passed in 1906. This law increased the number of
							 the Interstate Commerce Commission1 to seven, extended the law to cover pipe
							lines, express companies, and sleeping car companies, and bridges, ferries, and
							railway terminals. It gave the Interstate Commerce Commission the power to reduce a
							rate found to be unreasonable or discriminatory in cases in which complaints were
							filed by shippers adversely affected; it abolished "midnight tariffs" under which
							favored shippers had been given special rates, by requiring proper notice of all
							changes in schedules; and it forbade common carriers to engage in the transportation
							of commodities owned by themselves, except for their own proper uses.
						The Hepburn bill, however, did not confer upon the Interstate Commerce Commission
							that power over rates which the Commission had long been urging as necessary to give
							shippers the relief they expected. Senator La Follette, fresh from a fight with the
							railways in Wisconsin, proposed several radical amendments in the Senate, and
							endeavored without avail to secure the open support of President Roosevelt.2 The Senator insisted that it
							would be possible under the Hepburn bill "for the commission to determine whether
							rates were relatively reasonable, but not that they were reasonable per se; that one rate could be compared with another, but
							that the Commission had no means of determining whether either rate so compared was
							itself a reasonable rate." No one can tell, urged the Senator, whether a rate is
							reasonable until the railway in question has been evaluated. This point he pressed
							with great insistence, and though defeated at the time, he had the consolation of
							having the 1See above, p.
								133.
							2La Follette, Autobiography, 399 ff.
							 principle of physical valuation enacted into law in
								1913.1 At all events, the
							railways found little or no fault with the Hepburn law, and shortly afterward began to
							raise their rates in the face of strong opposition from shippers.
						Two laws relative to foodstuffs, the meat inspection act and the pure food act, were
							passed in 1906 in response to the popular demand for protection against diseased meats
							and deleterious foods and drugs--a demand created largely by the revelation of
							shocking conditions in the Chicago stockyards and of nefarious practices on the part
							of a large number of manufacturers. The first of the measures was intended to
							guarantee that the meat shipped in interstate commerce should be derived from animals
							which were sound at the time of slaughter, prepared under sanitary conditions in the
							packing houses, and adequately inspected by Federal employees. The second measure
							covered foods and drugs, and provided that such articles "must not contain any
							injurious or deleterious drug, chemical or preservative, and that the label on each
							package must state the exact facts and not be misleading or false in any particular."
							The effect of the last of these measures was felt in the extinction of a large number
							of patent medicine and other quasi-fraudulent concerns engaged in interstate
							trade.
						The social legislation enacted during Mr. Roosevelt's administrations is not very
							extensive, although it was accompanied by much discussion at the time. The most 1The law ordered the
								Interstate Commerce Commission to ascertain the cost of the construction of all
								interstate railways, the cost of their reconstruction at the present time, and also
								the amount of land and money contributed to railways by national, state, and local
								governments.
							 significant piece of labor legislation was the
							employers' liability law enacted in 1906, which imposed a liability upon common
							carriers engaged in interstate commerce for injuries sustained by employees in their
							service. On January 6, 1908, the Supreme Court declared the act unconstitutional on
							the ground that it interblended the exercise of legitimate powers over interstate
							commerce and interference with matters outside the scope of such commerce. The act was
							again taken up in Congress, and in April of that year a second law, omitting the
							objectionable features pointed out by the Court, was enacted.
						A second piece of Federal legislation which is commonly called a labor measure was
							the law which went into effect on March 4, 1908, limiting the hours of railway
							employees engaged as trainmen or telegraph operators. As a matter of fact, however, it
							was not so much the long hours of trainmen which disturbed Congress as the appalling
							number of railway disasters from which the traveling public suffered. At least it was
							so stated by the Republican leaders in their campaign of 1908, for they then declared
							that "although the great object of the Act is to promote the safety of travellers upon
							railroads, by limiting the hours of service of employees within reasonable bounds, it
							is none the less true that in actual operation it enforces humane and considerate
							treatment to employees as well as greater safety to the public."1
						That public policy with which Mr. Roosevelt's administrations will be most closely
							associated is 1Campaign Textbook, 1908, p. 45.
							 unquestionably the conservation of natural resources.
							It is true that he did not originate it or secure the enactment of any significant
							legislation on the subject. The matter had been taken up in Congress and out as early
							as Mr. Cleveland's first administration, and the first important law on conservation
							was the act of March 3, 1891, which authorized the President to reserve permanently as
							forest lands such areas as he deemed expedient. Under this law successive Presidents
							withdrew from entry enormous areas of forest lands. This beginning Mr. Roosevelt
							enlarged, and by his messages and speeches, he brought before the country in an
							impressive and enduring manner the urgent necessity of abandoning the old policy of
							drift and of withholding from the clutches of grasping corporations the meager domain
							still left to the people. Without inquiring into what may be the wisest final policy
							in the matter of our natural resources, all citizens will doubtless agree that Mr.
							Roosevelt's service in this cause was valuable beyond calculation.
						Among the proudest achievements of Mr. Roosevelt's administration was the beginning
							of the actual construction of the Panama Canal. A short route between the two oceans
							had long been considered by the leading commercial nations of the world. In 1850, by
							the Clayton-Bulwer treaty, the United States and Great Britain had agreed upon the
							construction of a canal by a private corporation, under the supervision of the two
							countries and other states, which might join the combination, on a basis of
							neutralization. The complete failure of the French company organized by De Lesseps,
							 the hero of the Suez Canal, discouraged all
							practical attempts for a time, but the naval advantages of such a waterway was forced
							upon public attention in a dramatic manner during the Spanish War when the battleship
								Oregon made her historical voyage around the Horn.1
						After the Spanish War was over, Mr. John Hay, Secretary of State, began the
							negotiation of a new treaty with Great Britain, which, after many hitches in the
							process of coming to terms, was finally ratified by the Senate in December, 1901. This
							agreement, known as the Hay-Pauncefote treaty, set aside the old Clayton-Bulwer
							convention, and provided that a canal might be constructed under the supervision of
							the United States, either at its own cost or by private enterprise subject to the
							stipulated provisions. The United States agreed to adopt certain rules as the basis of
							the neutralization of the canal, and expressly declared that "the canal shall be free
							and open to the vessels of commerce and of war of all nations, observing these Rules,
							on terms of entire equality, so that there shall be no discrimination against any such
							nation, or its citizens or subjects, in respect of the conditions or charges of
							traffic or otherwise."2 A
							proposal to forbid the fortification of the canal was omitted from the final draft,
							and provision was made for "policing" the district by the United States. The canal was
							thus neutralized under a guarantee of the United States, and certain promises were
							made in behalf of that country.
						1See above, p. 209.
						2Notwithstanding this
							arrangement, Congress in 1912 enacted a law exempting American coastwise vessels from
							canal tolls.


						

						The exact effect of this treaty was a subject of dispute from the outset. On the one
							side, it was said by Mr. Latané that "a unilateral guarantee amounts to nothing; the
							effect of the Hay-Pauncefote treaty, therefore, is to place the canal politically as
							well as commercially under the absolute control of the United States."1 On the other hand, it was
							contended that this treaty superseded a mutually binding convention, and that,
							although it was unilateral in character, the rules provided in it were solemn
							obligations binding upon the conscience of the American nation. Whatever may be the
							merits of this controversy, it is certain that the Hay-Pauncefote agreement cleared
							the way for speedy and positive action on the part of the United States with regard to
							the canal.
						The great question then confronting the country was where and how should the canal be
							built. One party favored cutting the channel through Nicaragua, and in fact two
							national commissions had reported in favor of this route. Another party advocated
							taking over the old French concern and the construction of the waterway through
							Panama, a district then forming a part of Colombia. As many influential Americans had
							become interested in the rights of the French company, they began a campaign in the
							lobbies of Congress to secure the adoption of that route. At length in June, 1902, the
							merits of the Panama case or the persistency of the lobby, or both, carried through a
							law providing for the purchase of the French company's claims at a cost of not more
							than $40,000,000 and the acquisition 1America as a World Power, p. 207.
							 of a canal strip from the republic of Colombia--and
							failing this arrangement, the selection of the Nicaragua route.
						On the basis of this law, which was signed June 28, 1902, negotiations were begun
							with Colombia, but they ended in failure because that country expected to secure
							better terms than those offered by the United States. The Americans who were
							interested in the French concern and expected to make millions out of the purchase of
							property that was substantially worthless, were greatly distressed by the refusal of
							Colombia to ratify the treaty which had been negotiated. Residents of Panama were
							likewise disturbed at this delay in an enterprise which meant great prosperity for
							them, and with the sympathy if not the support of the American administration, a
							revolt was instigated at the Isthmus and carried out under the protection of American
							arms on November 3, 1903. Three days later, President Roosevelt recognized the
							independence of the new revolutionary government. In his message in December, Mr.
							Roosevelt explained the great necessity under which he labored, and convinced his
							friends of the wisdom and justice of his course.
						By a treaty proclaimed on February 26, 1904, between Panama and the United States,
							provision was made for the construction of the canal. The independence of the former
							country was guaranteed, and the latter obtained "in perpetuity the use, occupation,
							and control" of a canal zone, and the right to construct, maintain, and operate the
							canal and other means of transportation through the strip. Panama was paid $10,000,000
							for her concession and promised $250,000 a  year after
							the lapse of nine years. The full $40,000,000 was paid over to the French concern and
							its American underwriters; the lock type instead of the sea-level canal was agreed
							upon in 1906; construction by private contractors was rejected in favor of public
							direct employment under official engineers; and the work was pushed forward with great
							rapidity in the hope that it might be completed before 1915.
						The country had not settled down after the Panama affair before popular interest was
							again engaged in a diplomatic tangle with Santo Domingo. That petty republic, on
							account of its many revolutions, had become deeply involved in debt, and European
							creditors, through their diplomatic agents, had practically threatened the use of
							armed force in collecting arrears, unless the United States would undertake the
							supervision of the Dominican customs and divide the revenues in a suitable manner. In
							an agreement signed in February, 1905, between the United States and Santo Domingo,
							provisions were made for carrying such an arrangement into effect. The Senate, having
							failed to sanction the treaty, Mr. Roosevelt practically carried out the program
							unofficially and gave it substantial support in the form of American battleships.
						Against this independent executive action there was a strong protest in the Senate.
							The spirit of this opposition was fully expressed by Mr. Rayner in a speech in that
							chamber, in which he said: "This policy may be all right--perhaps the American people
							are in favor of this new doctrine; it may be a wonderful accomplishment --Central America may profit by it; it may be a great
							benefit to us commercially and it may be in the interest of civilization, but as a
							student and follower of the Constitution, I deprecate the methods that have been
							adopted, and I appeal to you to know whether we propose to sit silently by, and by our
							indifference or tacit acquiescence submit to a scheme that ignores the privileges of
							this body; that is not authorized by statute ; that does not array itself within any
							of the functions of the Executive; that vests the treaty-making power exclusively in
							the President, to whom it does not belong; that overrides the organic law of the land,
							and that virtually proclaims to the country that, while the other branches of the
							Government are controlled by the Constitution, the Executive is above and beyond it,
							and whenever his own views or policies conflict with it, he will find some way to
							effectuate his purposes uncontrolled by its limitations."
						Notwithstanding such attacks on his authority, the President had not in fact exceeded
							his constitutional rights, and the boldness and directness of his policy found plenty
							of popular support. The Senate was forced to accept the situation with as good grace
							as possible, and a compromise was arranged in a revised treaty in February, 1907, in
							which Mr. Roosevelt's action on material points received official sanction from that
							authority. The wisdom of the policy of using the American navy to assist European and
							other creditors in collecting their debts in Latin-American countries was thoroughly
							thrashed out, as well as the constitutional points; and a new stage in the development
							of the Monroe Doctrine  was thus reached. Those who
							opposed the policy pointed to another solution of the perennial difficulties arising
							in the countries to the southward; that is, the submission of pecuniary claims to the
							Hague Court or special tribunals for arbitration.1
						Another very dramatic feature of Mr. Roosevelt's administration was his action in
							bringing Russia and Japan together in 1905 and thus helping to terminate the terrible
							war between these two powers. Among the achievements of the Hague conference, called
							by the Tsar in 1899, was the adoption of "A Convention for the Peaceful Adjustment of
							International Differences" which provided for a permanent Court of Arbitration, for
							international commissions of inquiry in disputes arising from differences of opinion
							on facts, and for the tendering of good offices and mediation. "The right to offer
							good offices or mediation," runs the convention, "belongs to Powers who are strangers
							to the dispute, even during the course of hostilities. The exercise of this right
							shall never be considered by one or the other parties to the contest as an unfriendly
							act."
						It was under this last provision that President Roosevelt dispatched on June 8, 1905,
							after making proper inquiries, identical notes to Russia and Japan, urging them to
							open direct negotiations for peace with each other. The fact that the great European
							financiers had already substantially agreed that the war must end and that both
							combatants were in sore straits for money, clearly facilitated the rapidity with which
							the 1 Latané, America as a World Power, pp. 282 ff.
							 President's invitation was accepted. In his identical
							note, Mr. Roosevelt tendered his services "in arranging the preliminaries as to the
							time and place of meeting," and after some delay Portsmouth, New Hampshire, was
							determined upon. The President's part in the opening civilities of the conference
							between the representatives of the two powers, and the successful outcome of the
							negotiations, combined to make the affair, in the popular mind, one of the most
							brilliant achievements of his administration.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER XI
						THE REVIVAL OF DISSENT
					ON the morning of March 4, 1901, when Mr. McKinley took the oath of
						office to succeed himself as President, it appeared to the superficial observer that the
						Populist movement had spent its strength and disappeared. Such was the common remark of
						the time. To discredit a new proposition it was only necessary to observe that it was as
						dead as Populism. Twice had the country repudiated Mr. Bryan and his works, the second
						time even more emphatically than the first; and the radical ideas which had been
						associated with his name, often quite erroneously, seemed to be permanently laid to
						rest. The country was prosperous; it congratulated itself on the successful outcome of
						the war with Spain and accepted the imperialist policies which followed with evident
						satisfaction. Industries under the protection of the Dingley Act and undisturbed by
						threats of legislative interference went forward with renewed vigor. Capital began to
						reach out for foreign markets and investments as never before. Statesmen of Mr. Hanna's
						school looked upon their work and pronounced it good.
					But Populism was not dead. Defeated in the field of national politics, it began to work
						from the ground upward, attacking one piece of political machinery after  another and pressing upon unwilling state legislatures new
						forms of agrarian legislation. The People's party, at its convention in 1896, had
						declared in favor of "a system of direct legislation through the initiative and
						referendum, under proper constitutional safeguards"; and Mr. Bryan two years later
						announced his belief in the system, saying: "The principle of the initiative and
						referendum is democratic. It will not be opposed by any Democrat who indorses the
						declaration of Jefferson that the people are capable of self-government; nor will it be
						opposed by any Republican who holds to Lincoln's idea that this should be a government
						of the people, by the people, and for the people." 1
					The first victory of "direct democracy" came in the very year of Mr. Bryan's memorable
						defeat. In 1896, the legislature of South Dakota was captured by a Democratic-Populist
						majority, and at the session beginning in the following January, it passed an amendment
						to the state constitution, establishing a system of initiative and referendum. Some
						leaders of the old Knights of Labor and the president of the Farmers' Alliance were
						prominently identified with the campaign for this innovation. The resolution was "passed
						by a strict party vote, and to the Populists is due the credit of passing it," reported
						"The Direct Legislation Record" in June, 1897. In the contest over ratification at the
						polls a party 1 The
							political history of the initiative and referendum has never been written. Some
							valuable materials are to be found in Direct Legislation, Senate
							Document No. 340, 55th Cong., 2d Sess. (1898); and in "The Direct Legislation Record,"
							founded in May, 1894; and in the "Equity Series," now published at Philadelphia. See
							also Oberholtzer, The Initiative, Referendum, and Recall in America,
							ed. 1911.
						 division ensued. The Democratic state convention in 1898
						adopted a plank favoring direct legislation, on "the principle that the people should
						rule"; and the Republicans contented themselves with urging party members "to study the
						legislative initiative and referendum." At the ensuing election the amendment was
						carried by a vote of 23,876 to 16,483; but ten years elapsed before any use was made of
						the new device.1
					A cloud no bigger than a man's hand had appeared on the horizon of representative
						government. East, West, North, and South, advocates of direct government were busy with
						their propaganda, Populists and Democrats taking the lead, with Republican politicians
						not far in the rear. The year following the adoption of the South Dakota amendment a
						combination of Democrats and Populists carried a similar provision through the state
						legislature of Utah and obtained its ratification in 1900. This victory was a
						short-lived triumph, for the Republicans soon regained their ascendancy and stopped the
						progress of direct legislation by refusing to enact the enabling law putting the
						amendment into force. But this check in Utah did not dampen the ardor of reformers in
						other commonwealths. In 1902, Oregon adopted the new system; four years later Montana
						followed; in 1907, Oklahoma came into the Union with the device embodied in the
						Constitution; and then the progress of the movement became remarkably rapid. It was
						adopted by Missouri and Maine in 1908, Arkansas and Colorado in 1910, Arizona and 1The Initiative,
								Referendum, and Recall, Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
							Science, September, 1912, pp. 84 ff.
						 California in 1911, Washington, Nebraska, Idaho, and Ohio
						in 1912. By this time Populists and Democrats had ceased to monopolize the agitation for
						direct government; it had become respectable, even in somewhat conservative Republican
						circles.
					It should be pointed out, however, that there is a conservative and a radical system of
						initiative and referendum: one which fixes the percentage necessary to initiate and
						adopt a measure at a point so high as to prevent its actual operation, and another which
						places it so low as to make its frequent use feasible. The older and more radical group
						of propagandists, finding their general scheme so widely taken up in practical politics,
						soon began to devote their attention rather to attacking the stricter safeguards thrown
						up by those who gave their support to direct government in theory only.
					In its simple form of initiation by five per cent of the voters and adoption by a
						majority of those voting on the measure submitted, this new device was undoubtedly a
						revolutionary change from the American system of government as conceived by the framers
						of the Constitution of the United States--with its checks and balances, indirect
						elections, and judicial control over legislation. The more radical of the advocates of
						direct government frankly admitted that this was true, and they sought to strengthen
						this very feature of their system by the addition of another device, known as the
						recall, which, when applied to judges as well as other elective officers, reduced
						judicial control over legislation to a practical nullity. Where judges are elected for
						short terms by popular vote and made subject to the recall,  and where laws are made by popular vote of the same electors who choose the judges,
						it is obvious that the very foundations of judicial supremacy are undermined.
					The recall, like direct democracy, was not new to American politics. Both were
						understood, at least in principle, by the framers of the Federal Constitution and
						rejected decisively. The recall seems to have made its appearance first in local
						form,--in the charter of Los Angeles, adopted in 1903. From there it went to the Seattle
						charter of 1906, and two years later it was adopted as a state-wide system applicable to
						all elective officers by Oregon. Its progress was swiftest in municipal affairs, for it
						quite generally accompanied "the commission form" of city government as a check on the
						commissioners in their exercise of enlarged powers.
					The state-wide recall, however, received a remarkable impetus in 1911 from the
						controversy over the admission of Arizona, which attracted the attention of the nation.
						That territory had framed a constitution containing a radical form of the recall based
						on the Oregon plan, and in August, 1911, Congress passed a resolution admitting the
						applicant, on condition that the provision relating to the recall should be specifically
						submitted to the voters for their approval or rejection. President Taft was at once
						stirred to action, and on August 15 he sent Congress a ringing message, displaying
						unwonted vigor and determination, vetoing the resolution and denouncing the recall of
						judges in unmeasured terms. "Constitutions," he said, "are checks upon the hasty action
						of the majority. They are the self-imposed restraints of a whole people upon  a majority of them to secure sober action and a respect for
						the rights of the minority. . . . In order to maintain the rights of the minority and
						the individual and to preserve our constitutional balance we must have judges with
						courage to decide against the majority when justice and law require. . . . As the
						possibilities of such a system [as the recall] pass in review, is it too much to
						characterize it as one which will destroy the judiciary, its standing, and its
						usefulness ?"
					Acting upon the recommendation of President Taft, Congress passed a substitute
						resolution for admitting Arizona only on condition that the obnoxious recall of judges
						be stricken from the constitution of the state.1 The debates in Congress over the admission of Arizona
						covered the whole subject of direct government in all its aspects, and these, coupled
						with the President's veto message, brought the issue prominently to the front throughout
						the country. Voters to whom it had previously been an obscure western device now began
						to take a deep interest in it; the press took it up; and one more test for "progressive"
						and "reactionary" was put in the popular program.
					The movement for direct popular participation in state and local government was
						inevitably accompanied by a demand for more direct government within the political
						party; in other words, by a demand for the abandonment of the representative
						convention in favor of 1
							Arizona was admitted without the judicial recall provision, but immediately set to
							work and reinserted it in the constitution, and devised a plan for the recall of
							Federal district judges as well.
						 the selection of candidates by direct primary. During the
						decade of the great Populist upheaval, legislation relative to political parties was
						largely confined to the introduction of the Australian ballot and the establishment of
						safeguards around the primaries at which delegates to party conventions were chosen. The
						direct primary, like the initiative and referendum, grew out of a discontent with social
						and economic conditions, which led to an attack on the political machinery that was
						alleged to be responsible for them. Like the initiative and referendum, also, it was not
						an altogether new device, for it had been used for a long time in some of the states as
						a local institution established by party custom; but when it was taken up by the state
						legislatures, it made a far more rapid advance.
					It was not, however, until the opening of the new century that primary legislation
						began to engross a large share of legislative activities. In 1903, "the first state-wide
						primary law with fairly complete provisions for legal supervision was enacted by the
						state of Wisconsin"; Oregon, making use of the new initiative system, enacted a
						thoroughgoing primary law in 1904; and the following year Illinois adopted a state-wide
						measure. Other states, hesitating at such an extensive application of the principle,
						contented themselves at first with laws instituting local primaries, such, for example,
						as the Nebraska law of 1905 covering cities of over 125,000, or the earlier law of
						Minnesota covering only Hennepin county. "So rapid was the progress of public opinion
						and legislation," says Mr. Merriam, "that in many instances a compromise law of one
						session  of the legislature was followed by a
						thoroughgoing law in the next. For example, the North Dakota law of 1905 authorized
						direct primaries for all district nominations, but did not include state offices; but in
						1907, a sweeping act was passed covering practically all offices."
					The vogue of the direct primary was confined largely to the West at first, but it
						steadily gained in favor in the East. Governor Hughes, of New York, in his contest with
						the old organization of the Republican party, became a stanch advocate of the system,
						recommended it to the legislature in his messages, campaigned through the state to
						create public sentiment in favor of the reform, and labored unsuccessfully to secure the
						passage of a primary law, until he closed his term to accept an appointment to the
						Supreme Court of the United States. In 1911, the Democratic party, which had carried New
						York state at the preceding election, enacted a primary law applicable to local, but not
						to state, offices. About the same time Massachusetts, Maine, and New Jersey joined the
						long list of direct primary states. Within almost ten years the principle in its
						state-wide form had been accepted in two thirds of the states, and in some local form in
						nearly all of the other commonwealths.
					Meanwhile, the theory and practice of direct government made their way upward into
						the Federal government. As early as 1826, Mr. Storrs, a representative from New York,
						introduced in the House a constitutional amendment providing for the popular election of
						United States Senators, and from time to time thereafter the proposal was urged upon
						Congress. President Johnson,  who had long been an
						advocate of this change in the Federal government, made it the subject of a special
						message to Congress in 1868; but in his contest with that body the proposed measure was
						lost to sight. Not long afterward it appeared again in the House and the Senate, and at
						length the lower house in 1893 passed an amendment providing for popular election by the
						requisite two-thirds vote, but the Senate refused to act. Again in 1894, in 1898 (by a
						vote of 185 to 11), in 1900 (240 to 15), and in 1902 by practically a unanimous vote,
						there being no division, the House passed the amendment; still the Senate resisted the
						change.
					In the Senate itself were found occasional champions of popular election, principally
						from the West and South. Mitchell, of Oregon, Turpie, of Indiana, Perkins, of
						California, Berry, of Arkansas, and Bailey, of Texas, took the leadership in this
						contest for reform. Chandler, of New Hampshire, Depew, of New York, Penrose, of
						Pennsylvania, Hoar, of Massachusetts, Foraker, of Ohio, and Spooner, of Wisconsin,
						leveled their batteries against it. State after state legislature passed resolutions
						demanding the change, until at length three fourths had signified their demand for
						popular election.
					The Senate as a whole remained obdurate. When in the Fifty-third Congress the
						resolution of the House came before that body, Mr. Hoar, of Massachusetts, made, on
						April 6 and 7, 1893, one of his most eloquent and impassioned pleas for resisting this
						new proposal to the uttermost. He declared that it would transfer the seat of power to
						the "great cities and masses of  population," that it
						would create new temptations to fraud and corrupt practices, that it implied that the
						Senate had been untrue to its trust, that it would lead to the election of the President
						and the judiciary by popular majorities, and that it would "result in the overthrow of
						the whole scheme of the Senate and in the end of the whole scheme of the national
						Constitution as designed and established by the framers of the Constitution and the
						people who adopted it." With impatience, he refused to listen to the general indictment
						which had been brought against the Senate as then constituted. "The greatest victories
						of constitutional liberty since the world began," he concluded, "are those whose battle
						ground has been the American Senate, and whose champions have been the Senators who for
						a hundred years, while they have resisted the popular passions of the House, have led,
						represented, guided, obeyed, and made effective the deliberate will of a free
						people."
					Having failed to make an impression on the Senate by a frontal attack, the advocates of
						popular election set to work to capture that citadel by a rear assault. They began to
						apply the principle of the direct primary in the nomination of candidates for the
						Senate, and this development at length culminated in the Oregon scheme for binding the
						legislature to accept the "people's choice." This movement gained rapid headway in the
						South, where the real contest was over nomination, not election, on account of the
						absence of party divisions. As early as 1875, the Nebraska constitution had provided for
						taking a popular preferential vote on candidates for  the
						Senate; but no considerable interest seems to have been taken in it at the time. In
						1899, Nevada passed a law entitled "an act to secure the election of United States
						Senators in accordance with the will of the people and the choice of the electors of the
						state." Shortly afterward, Oregon enacted her famous statute which attempted to compel
						the legislature to accept the popular nominee; and from that time forward the new system
						spread rapidly. By 1910, at least three fourths of the states nominated candidates for
						the Senate by some kind of a popular primary.
					It was not until 1911 that the Senate yielded to the overwhelming popular demand for a
						change in the methods of election provided in the Constitution. In December, 1909,
						Senator Bristow, of Kansas, introduced a resolution designed to effect this reform, and
						after a hot debate it was defeated on February 28, 1911, by a vote of 54 to 33, four
						short of the requisite two thirds. In the next Congress, which convened on April 4, ten
						Senators who had voted against the amendment had been retired, and the champions of the
						measure, taking it up again with renewed energy, were able to force it through the upper
						house on June 12, 1911, by a margin of five more than the two thirds. The resolution
						went to the House and a deadlock arose between the two chambers for a time over Federal
						control of elections, provided in the Senate resolution, which was obnoxious to many
						southern representatives. At length, however, on May 13, 1912, the opponents in the
						House gave way, and the resolution passed by an overwhelming vote. Within a year, the
						resolution was ratified by the requisite  three fourths of
						the state legislatures, and it was proclaimed on May 31, 1913.
					The advance of direct democracy in the West was accompanied by a revival of the
						question of woman suffrage. That subject had been earnestly agitated about the time of
						the Civil War; and under the leadership of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and
						others it made considerable headway among those sections of the population which had
						favored the emancipation of the slaves. Indeed, it was inevitably linked with the
						discussion of "natural rights," extensively carried on during the days when attempts
						were being made to give political rights to the newly emancipated bondmen. Woman
						suffrage was warmly urged before the New York state constitutional convention in 1867 by
						Mr. George William Curtis, in a speech which has become a classic among the arguments
						for that cause. During the seventies suffrage petitions bearing the signatures of
						thousands of men and women were laid before Congress, and an attempt was made to secure
						from the Supreme Court an interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment which would force
						the states to grant the ballot to women.
					At length the movement began to subside, and writers who passed for keen observers
						declared it to be at an end. The nineteenth century closed with victories for the women
						in only four states, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, and Idaho. The first of these states had
						granted the vote to women while yet a territory, and on its admission to the Union in
						1890, it became the  first state with full political
						equality. Three years later, Colorado enfranchised women, and in 1896 Utah and Idaho
						joined the equal suffrage commonwealths. Meanwhile, a very large number of northern and
						eastern states had given women the right to vote in local or school elections, Minnesota
						and Michigan in 1875 and other states in quick succession. Nevertheless, these gains
						were, relatively speaking, small, and there seemed to be little widespread enthusiasm
						about the further extension of the right.
					Of course, the agitation continued, but in somewhat obscure circles, under a running
						fire of ridicule whenever it appeared in public. At length it broke out with
						unprecedented vigor, shortly after the tactics adopted by militant English women
						startled the world. Within a short time new and substantial victories gave the movement
						a standing which could not be ignored either by its positive opponents or the
						indifferent politicians. In 1910, the suffragists carried the state of Washington; in
						1911, they carried California; in 1912, they won in Arizona, Kansas, and Oregon; but
						lost Ohio, Michigan, and Wisconsin. These victories gave them nine states and of course
						a considerable influence in the House of Representatives and the right to participate in
						the election of eighteen out of ninety-six Senators. But the defeat in the three middle
						states led the opponents of woman suffrage to believe that the movement could be
						confined to the far West. This hope was, however, dashed in 1913 when the legislature of
						Illinois gave women the right to vote for all statutory officers, including electors for
						President of the United States. Determined to  make use of
						the political power thus obtained, the suffragists, under the leadership of Alice Paul,
						renewed with great vigor the agitation at Washington for a national amendment forbidding
						states to disqualify women from voting merely on account of sex.
					
						The Rise and Growth of Socialism
						With the spread of direct elections and the initiative and referendum, and the
							adoption of the two amendments to the Federal Constitution authorizing an income
								tax1 and the popular election
							of Senators, the milder demands of Populism were secured. At the same time, the
							prosperity of the farmers and the enormous rise in ground values which accompanied the
							economic advance of the country removed some of the most potent causes of the
							discontent on which Populism thrived. Organized Populism died a natural death. Those
							Populists who advocated only political reforms went over to the Republican and
							Democratic parties; the advocates of radical economic changes, on the other hand,
							entered the Socialist ranks.
						Socialism, as an organized movement in the United States, runs back to the foundation
							of the Social-Democratic Workingmen's party in New York City, in 1874, which was
							changed into the Socialist Labor party three years later,--a party that still
							survives. This group did not enter into national politics until 1892, although its
							branches occasionally made nominations for local offices or fused with other labor
							groups, as in the New 1
								See below, p. 325.
							 York mayoralty campaign of 1886. In its vigorous
							propaganda against capitalism, this party soon came into collision with the American
							Federation of Labor, established in 1886, and definitely broke with it four years
							later when the latter withheld a charter from the New York Central Federation for the
							alleged reason that the Socialist Labor party of that city was an affiliated
							organization. After the break with the American Federation, this Socialist group
							turned for a time to the more radical Knights of Labor, but this new flirtation with
							labor was no more successful than the first, and in time the Socialist Labor party
							declared war on all the methods of American trades-unionism. Its gains numerically
							were not very significant; it polled something over twenty thousand votes in 1892 and
							over eighty thousand in 1896--the high-water mark in its political career. Its history
							has been a stormy one, marked by dissensions, personal controversies, and splits, but
							the party is still maintained by a decreasing band of loyal adherents.
						The growth of interest in socialism, however, was by no means confined to the
							membership of the Socialist Labor party. External events were stirring a consciousness
							that grave labor problems had arisen within the American Commonwealth. The bloody
							strikes at Homestead, Coeur d'Alene, Buffalo, and Pullman in the eighties and early
							nineties moved the country as no preachments of abstract socialist philosophy could
							ever have done. That such social conflicts were full of serious portent was recognized
							even by such a remote and conservative thinker as President Cleveland in  his message of 1886 to Congress. In that very year, the
							Society of Christian Socialists was formed, with Professor R. T. Ely and Professor G.
							D. Herron among its members, and about the same time "Nationalist" clubs were
							springing up all over the country as a result of the propaganda created by Bellamy's
								Looking Backward, published in 1887. The decline of the Populist
							party, which had indorsed most of the socialistic proposals that appealed to Americans
							tinged with radicalism, the formation of local labor and socialist societies of one
							kind or another, and the creation of dissatisfaction with the methods and program of
							the Socialist Labor party finally led to the establishment of a new national political
							organization.
						This was effected in 1900 when a general fusion was attempted under the name of the
							Social Democratic party, which nominated Mr. Eugene V. Debs for President at a
							convention held in Indianapolis. The Socialist Labor party, however, declined to join
							the organization and went on its own way. The vote of the new party, ninety-six
							thousand, induced the leaders in the movement to believe that they were on the right
							track, for this was considerably larger than the rival group had ever secured. Steps
							were immediately taken to put the party on a permanent basis; the name Socialist party
							was assumed in 1901; local branches were established in all sections of the country
							with astonishing rapidity; and a vigorous propaganda was undertaken. In the national
							election of 1904 over four hundred thousand votes were polled; in 1908, when Mr. Bryan
							and Mr. Roosevelt gave a radical tinge to the older parties, a  gain of only about twenty-five thousand was made; but in 1912, despite Mr.
							Wilson's flirtation with western democracy and the candidacy of Mr. Roosevelt on a
							socialistic platform, the Socialist party more than doubled its vote. During these
							years of growth the party began to pass from the stage of propaganda to that of
							action. In 1910o, the Socialists of Milwaukee carried the city, secured twelve
							members of the lower house of the state legislature, elected two state Senators, and
							returned Mr. Victor Berger to Congress. This victory, which was hailed as a turning
							point in the march of socialism, was largely due, however, to the divided condition of
							the opposition, and thus the Socialists really went in as a plurality, not a majority
							party. The closing of the Republican and Democratic ranks in 1912 resulted in the
							ousting of the Socialist city administration, although the party polled a vote
							considerably larger than that cast two years previously. In other parts of the country
							numerous municipal and local officers were elected by the Socialists, and in 1912 they
							could boast of several hundred public offices.1
						While there was no little difference of opinion among the Socialists as to the
							precise character of their principles and tactics,--a condition not peculiar to that
							party,--there were certain general ideas running through their propaganda and
							platforms. Modern industry, they all held, creates necessarily a division of society
							into a relatively few capitalists, on the one hand, who own, control, and manipulate
							the machinery of production 1 See list in the National Municipal Review for July,
								1912.
							 and the natural resources of the country, and on the
							other hand, a great mass of landless, toolless, and homeless working people dependent
							upon the sale of their labor for a livelihood. There is an inherent antagonism between
							these two classes, for each seeks to secure all that it can from the annual output of
							wealth; this antagonism is manifest in labor organizations, strikes, and industrial
							disputes of every kind. Out of this contest, the former class gains wealth, luxury,
							safety, and the latter, poverty, slums, and misery. Finally, if the annual toll levied
							upon industry by the exploiters and the frightful wastes due to competition and
							maladjustment were eliminated, all who labor with hand or brain could enjoy reasonable
							comfort and security, and also leisure for the cultivation of the nobler arts of
							civilization.
						At the present time, runs the Socialist platform of 1912, "the capitalist class,
							though few in numbers, absolutely controls the government--legislative, executive, and
							judicial. This class owns the machinery of gathering and disseminating news through
							its organized press. It subsidizes seats of learning,--the colleges and the
							schools,--even religious and moral agencies. It has also the added prestige which
							established customs give to any order of society, right or wrong." But the working
							class is becoming more and more discontented with its lot; it is becoming consolidated
							by coöperation, political and economic, and in the future it will become the ruling
							class of the country, taking possession, through the machinery of the government, of
							the great instrumentalities of production and distribution. This final  achievement of socialism is being prepared by the swift
							and inevitable consolidation of the great industries into corporations, managed by
							paid agents for the owners of the stocks and bonds. The transition from the present
							order will take the form of municipal, state, and national assumption of the various
							instrumentalities of production and distribution--with or without compensation to the
							present owners, as circumstances may dictate.1 Such are the general presuppositions of socialism.
						The Socialist party had scarcely got under way before it was attacked from an
							unexpected quarter by revolutionary trade-unionists, known as the Industrial Workers
							of the World, who revived in part the old principle of class solidarity (as opposed to
							trade solidarity) which lay at the basis of the Knights of Labor. The leaders of this
							new unionism, among whom Mr. W. D. Haywood was prominent, did not repudiate altogether
							the Socialist labors to secure control of the organs of government by the ballot, but
							they minimized their importance and pressed to the front the doctrine that by vigorous
							and uncompromising mass strikes a revolutionary spirit might be roused in the working
							class and the actual control of business wrested from the capitalists, perhaps without
							the intervention of the government at all.
						This new unionism was launched at a conference of radical labor leaders in 1904, at
							which the following 1 The
								Socialist party does not at present contemplate public ownership of petty properties
								or of farm lands tilled by their possessors. This is one part of its program not yet
								definitely worked out.
							 program was adopted: "The working class and the
							employing class have nothing in common. Between these two classes a struggle must go
							on until the workers of the world organize as a class, take possession of the earth
							and machinery of production and abolish the wage system. We find that the centering of
							the management of industries into fewer and fewer hands makes the trade unions unable
							to cope with the ever growing power of the employing class. The trade unions foster a
							state of affairs which allows one set of workers to be pitted against another set of
							workers in the same industry. . . . Moreover the trade unions aid the employing class
							to mislead the workers into the belief that the working class have interests in common
							with their employers. These conditions can be changed and the interest of the working
							class upheld only by an organization formed in such a way that all its members in any
							one industry, or in all industries if necessary, cease work whenever a strike or a
							lockout is on in any department thereof. . . . We must inscribe on our banner the
							revolutionary watchword, 'Abolish the wage system.'"
						This new society made a disturbance in labor circles entirely out of proportion to
							its numerical strength. Its leaders managed strikes at McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania, at
							Lawrence, Massachusetts, in 1912, and at other points, laying emphasis on the united
							action of all the working people of all the trades involved in the particular
							industry. The "new unionism" appealed particularly to the great mass of foreign
							laborers who had no vote and therefore perhaps turned with more  zeal to "direct" action. It appeared, however, that the membership of the
							Industrial Workers was not over 70,000 in 1912, and that it had little of the
							stability of the membership of the old unions.
					
					
						The Counter-Reformation
						Just as the Protestant Revolt during the sixteenth century was followed by a
							counter-reformation in the Catholic Church which swept away many abuses, while
							retaining and fortifying the essential principles of the faith, so the widespread and
							radical discontent of the working classes with the capitalist system hitherto
							obtaining produced a counter-reformation on the part of those who wish to preserve its
							essentials while curtailing some of its excesses. This counter-reformation made a deep
							impress upon American political thinking and legislation at the turning of the new
							century. More than once during his presidency Mr. Roosevelt warned the capitalists
							that a reform of abuses was the price which  they would
							have to pay in order to save themselves from a socialist revolution. Eminent
							economists turned aside from free trade and laissez faire to
							consider some of the grievances of the working class, and many abandoned the
							time-honored discussions of "economic theories," in favor of legislative programs
							embracing the principles of state socialism, to which countries like Germany and Great
							Britain were already committed.
						Charity workers whose function had been hitherto to gather up the wrecks of
							civilization and smooth their dying days began to talk of "a war for the prevention of
							poverty," and an examination of their concrete legislation proposals revealed the
							acceptance of some of the principles of state socialism. Unrestricted competition and
							private property had produced a mass of poverty and wretchedness in the great cities
							which constituted a growing menace to society, and furnished themes for socialist
							orators. Social workers of every kind began the detailed analysis of the causes of
							specific cases of poverty and arrived at the conclusion that elaborate programs of
							"social legislation" were necessary to the elimination of a vast mass of undeserved
							poverty.
						Under the stimulus of these and other forces, state legislatures in the more
							industrially advanced commonwealths began to pour out a stream of laws dealing with
							social problems. These measures included employers liability and workmen's
							compensation laws, the prohibition of child labor, minimum hours for dangerous trades
							like mining and railroading, minimum wages for women and girls, employment bureaus,
							and pensions for widows with children to support. While none of the states  went so far as to establish old-age pensions and general
							sickness and accident insurance, it was apparent from an examination of the
							legislation of the first decade of the twentieth century that they were well in the
							paths of nations like Germany, England, and Australia.
					
					
						Criticism of the Federal System
						All this unsettlement in economics and politics could not fail to bring about a
							reconsideration of the fundamentals in the American constitutional system--
							particularly the distribution of powers between the Federal and state governments,
							which is made by a constitution drafted when economic conditions were totally
							different from what they are to-day. In fact, during the closing years of the
							nineteenth century there appeared, here and there in American political literature,
							evidence of a discontent with the Federal system scarcely less keen and critical than
							that which was manifested with the Articles of Confederation during those years of our
							history which John Fiske has denominated "The Critical Period."
						Manufacturing interests which, at the time the Federal Constitution was framed, were
							so local in character as to be excluded entirely from the control of the Federal
							government had now become national or at all events sectional, having absolutely no
							relation to state lines. As Professor Leacock remarks, "The central fact of the
							situation is that economically and industrially the United States is one country or at
							best one country with four or five great subdivisions, while politically it is  broken into a division of jurisdictions holding sway to a
							great extent over its economic life, but corresponding to no real division either of
							race, of history, of unity, of settlement, or of commercial interest."1 For example, in 1900 the boot
							and shoe industry, instead of being liberally distributed among the several states,
							was so concentrated, that out of the total product 44.9 per cent was produced by
							Massachusetts; nearly one half of the agricultural implements for that year were made
							in Illinois; two thirds of the glass of the whole country was made in Pennsylvania and
							Indiana; while Pennsylvania alone produced 54 per cent of the iron and steel
							manufactured. The political significance of this situation was simply this: the nation
							on which each of these specialized industries depended for its existence had
							practically no power through the national government to legislate relative to them;
							but in each case a single legislature representing a small fraction of the people
							connected with the industry in question possesses the power of control.
						The tendency of manufacturers to centralize was accompanied, as has been pointed out
							above, by a similar centralization in railways. At the close of the nineteenth
							century, the Vanderbilt system operated "some 20,000 miles reaching from New York City
							to Casper, Wyoming, and covering the lake states and the area of the upper
							Mississippi; the Pennsylvania system with 14,000 miles covers a portion of the same
							territory, centering particularly in Ohio and Indiana; the Morgan 1
								Proceedings of the American Political Science Association, 1908,
								Vol. V, p. 42.
							 system, operating 12,000 miles, covers the Atlantic
							seaboard and the interior of the Southern States from New York to New Orleans; the
							Morgan-Hill system operates 20,000 miles from Chicago and St. Louis to the state of
							Washington; the Harriman system with 19,000 miles runs from Chicago southward to the
							Gulf and westward to San Francisco, including a Southern route from New Orleans to Los
							Angeles; the Gould system with 14,000 miles operates chiefly in the center of the
							middle west extending southward to the Gulf; in addition to these great systems are a
							group of minor combinations such as the Atchinson with 7,500 or the Boston and Maine
							with 3,300 miles of road."
						Corresponding to this centralization in industries and railways there was, as we have
							pointed out, a centralization in the control of capital, particularly in two large
							groups, the Standard Oil and the Morgan interests. As an expert financier, Mr. Moody
							wrote in 1904: "Viewed as a whole, we find the dominating influences in the trusts to
							be made up of an intricate network of large and small groups of capitalists, many
							allied to one another by ties of more or less importance, but all being appendages to,
							or parties of the greater groups which are themselves dependent on and allied with the
							two mammoth or Rockefeller and Morgan groups."
						Facing this centralized national economy was a Federal system made for wholly
							different conditions--a national system of manufacturing, transportation, capital,
							and organized labor, with a national government empowered, expressly, at least, to
							regulate only  one of those interests,
							transportation--the other fundamental national interests being referred to the mercy
							of forty-six separate and independent state legislatures. But it is to be noted, these
							several legislatures were by no means free to work out their own program of
							legislation; all of them were, at every point, subjected to Federal judicial control
							under the general phrases of the Fourteenth Amendment relative to due process of law
							and the equal protection of the laws.1 To state it in another way, the national government was powerless to act
							freely with regard to nearly all of the great national interests, but it was all
							powerful through its judiciary in striking down state legislation.
						A few concrete illustrations2
							will show the lack of correspondence between the political system and the economic
							system. Each state bids against the others to increase the number of factories which
							adds to its wealth and increases the value of property within its borders, although it
							makes no difference to the total wealth of the nation and the happiness of the whole
							people whether a particular concern is located in New Jersey or in Pennsylvania. As
							the national government enjoys no power to regulate industries--even those which are
							national in character--the states use their respective powers under the pressure which
							comes from those who are interested in increasing the industry of the commonwealth.
							For example, it is stated "the glass workers of New Jersey oppose any attempt to
							prohibit 1 See above, p.
								54.
							2 Taken from Professor
								Leacock's paper in the Proceedings of the American Political Science
									Association, 1908, pp. 37 ff.
							 night work for boys under sixteen years of age on the
							ground that such work is permitted in the neighboring state of Pennsylvania." In 1907,
							in South Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama, a ten year old child could, under the law,
							work for twelve hours a day; North Carolina had sixty-six mills where twelve year old
							children could do twelve hours' night work under the law. Although this situation was
							somewhat remedied later, the advocates of reform were resisted at every point by the
							interested parties who contended that in competing with New England, the southern
							states had to take advantage of every opportunity, even at the expense of the
							children.
						The situation may be described in the language of the chief factory inspector of
							Ohio: "Industrially as well as geographically we of the Ohio Valley are one people and
							our laws should be uniform, not only that they may be the easier enforced, but in
							justice to the manufacturers who pursue the same industry in the several states and
							therefore come into close competition with one another." Moreover, if a state enacts
							an important industrial law, it may find its work in vain as the result of a decision
							of the national Supreme Court, or of the state courts, interpreting the Fourteenth
							Amendment.
						Another example of a national interest which is wholly beyond the reach of the
							Federal government, under a judicial decision reached in the case of Paul v. Virginia in 1868, is that of insurance. Although Hamilton and earlier
							writers on the Constitution believed that the insurance business was a branch of
							interstate commerce whose regulation was vested in Congress, the Supreme  Court in this case dealing with fire insurance declared
							that the act of issuing a policy of insurance was not a transaction of commerce. "The
							policies," said the Court, "are simple contracts of indemnity against loss by fire,
							entered into between the corporations and the assured for a consideration paid by the
							latter. These contracts are not articles of commerce in any proper meaning of the
							word; they are not subjects of trade and barter offered in the market as something
							having an existence and value independent of the parties to them. . . . Such contracts
							are not interstate transactions, though the parties may be domiciled in different
							states. . . . They are then local transactions and are governed by the local laws.
							They do not constitute a part of the commerce between the states any more than a
							contract for the purchase and sale of goods in Virginia by a citizen of New York
							whilst in Virginia would constitute a portion of such commerce."
						As a result of this narrow interpretation of the commerce clause, the vast insurance
							business of the country, national in character, was put beyond the reach of Congress,
							and at the mercy of the legislatures of the several commonwealths. Under these
							circumstances, the insurance laws of the United States were in splendid chaos. "If a
							compilation of these laws were attempted," says Mr. Huebner, "a most curious spectacle
							would result. It would be found that fifty-two states and territories are all acting
							along independent lines and that each, as has been correctly said, possessed its own
							schedule of taxations, fees, fines, penalties, obligations and prohibitions, and a
							retaliatory or reciprocal  provision enabled it to meet
							the highest charges any other state may require of the companies of any other
							states."
						A still better example of confusion in our system is offered by the corporation laws
							of the several states. Great industrial corporations are formed under state laws.
							While many contend that Congress has the power to compel the Federal incorporation of
							all concerns doing an interstate business and thus to occupy the whole domain of
							corporation law involving interstate commerce, this radical step has not yet been
							taken. Congress has confined itself to the more or less fruitless task of forbidding
							combinations in restraint of interstate trade.
						Under these circumstances, there appeared the anomalous condition of states actually
							advertising in the newspapers and bidding against each other in offering the
							corporations special opportunities and low fees for the privilege of incorporating. If
							the conscience of one state became enlightened and a strict corporation law was
							enacted, the result was simply to drive the irregular concerns into some other state
							which was willing to sell its privileges for the small fee of incorporation, and ask
							no questions. As might have been expected, every variety of practice existed in the
							forty-eight jurisdictions in which corporations might be located.
						Not only was there the greatest diversity in these practices, but special
							discriminations were often made in particular states against concerns incorporated in
							other states; and on top of all this there was a vast mass of antitrust legislation,
							frequently drastic in character or loose and futile. Often it was the product of a
							popular clamor against large business undertakings,  and
							often it was the result of the effort of legislators to "strike" at corporations.
							Whatever the underlying motive, it was generally characterized at the outset by lack
							of uniformity and absence of. any large view of public policy, and then it was glossed
							over by judicial decisions, state and Federal, until it was a fortunate corporation
							official, indeed, who knew either his rights or his duties under the law. Moreover, it
							was a particularly obtuse attorney who could not lead his client unscathed through
							this wonderland of legal confusion.
						The position of railway corporations, if possible, was more anomalous still. Their
							interstate business was subject to the regulations of Congress and their intrastate
							business to the control of the state legislatures. Although there existed, in theory,
							a dividing line between these two classes of business, there were always arising
							concrete cases where it was difficult to say on which side of the line they would fall
							in the opinion of the Supreme Court. States were constantly being enjoined on the
							application of the railways for their "interference with interstate commerce"; and
							when far-reaching legislation was proposed in Congress, the cry went up that the
							rights of states were being trampled upon. If X shipped a carload of goods to Y within
							the borders of his state, he paid one rate; if he shipped it to Z, two miles farther
							on in another state, he paid a different rate, perhaps less than in the first
							instance. In a number of states companies owning parallel lines might consolidate; in
							others, consolidation was forbidden. According to a report of the Interstate Commerce
							Commission in 1902, the states were equally  divided on
							this proposition as to the consolidation of competing lines. According to the same
							report, if a railway company was guilty of unjust discrimination in one state, it paid
							a fine of $50, and in other states it was mulcted to the tune of $25,000. At the same
							time, whoever obstructed a railway track in Mississippi was liable to three months in
							jail; for the same offense in New York he might get three years; if, perchance, after
							serving three years and three months in these two commonwealths, he tried the
							experiment again in Wyoming, he might in the mercy of the court be sentenced to
							death.
						A further element of confusion was added by the intervention of the Federal judiciary
							in declaring state laws invalid, not merely when they conflicted clearly with the
							execution of Federal law, but on constitutional grounds which meant, for practical
							purposes, whenever the said laws were not in harmony with the ideas of public policy
							entertained by the courts at the time. The Federal judiciary in regard to state
							legislation relative to corporations was, therefore, a destructive, not a
							constructive, body. To use the language of the street, state legislation was simply
							"shot to pieces" by judicial decisions. That which was chaotic, disjointed, and
							founded upon no uniformity of purpose or policy to begin with was riddled and torn by
							a body which had no power for positive action.
						As the Interstate Commerce Commission declared in 1903, "One of the chief
							embarrassments in the exercise of adequate government control over the organization,
							the construction, and the administration of railways in 
							the United States is found in the many sources of statutory authority
							recognized by our form of government. The Federal Constitution provides for uniformity
							in statutory control, so far as interstate commerce is concerned, but it does not
							touch commerce within the states, nor, as at present interpreted, does it cover the
							organization of railroad corporations or the construction of railroad properties.
							These matters, as well as the larger part of that class of activities included under
							the police jurisdiction, are left to the states. Such being the case, the development
							of an harmonious and uniform railroad system must be attained, if at all, by one of
							two methods. The states must relinquish to the Federal government their reserved
							rights over internal commerce, or having first agreed upon fundamental principles,
							they must, through comity and convention, work out an harmonious system of statutory
							regulation."
						This was the situation that called forth the demand for the national regulation of
							large corporate enterprises, and brought about the demand for a strengthening of the
							Federal government, either by a constitutional amendment or judicial interpretation,
							which received the name of "New Nationalism." Wide currency was given to this term by
							Mr. Roosevelt, in his speech delivered at Ossawatomie on August 31, 1910. After
							outlining a legislative policy which he deemed to be demanded by the changed economic
							conditions of our time, Mr. Roosevelt attacked the idea of "a neutral zone between the
							national and state legislatures," guarded only by the Federal judiciary; and pleaded
							for  the strengthening of the Federal government so as
							to make it competent for every national purpose.
						"There must remain no neutral ground," he said, "to serve as a refuge for
							lawbreakers, and especially for lawbreakers of great wealth, who can hire the vulpine
							legal cunning which will teach them how to avoid both jurisdictions. It is a
							misfortune when the national legislature fails to do its duty in providing a national
							remedy so that the only national activity is the purely negative activity of the
							judiciary in forbidding the state to exercise the power in the premises.
						"I do not ask for overcentralization; but I do ask that we work in a spirit of broad
							and far-reaching nationalism when we work for what concerns our people as a whole. We
							are all Americans. Our common interests are as broad as the continent. I speak to you
							here exactly as I would speak in New York or Georgia, for the most vital problems are
							those which affect us all alike. The national government belongs to the whole American
							people, and where the whole American people are interested, that interest can be
							guarded effectively only by the national government. The betterment which we seek must
							be accomplished, I believe, mainly through the national government.
						"The American people are right in demanding that New Nationalism without which we
							cannot hope to deal with new problems. The New Nationalism puts the national need
							before sectional or personal advantages. It is impatient of the utter confusion that
							results from local legislatures attempting to treat national issues as local issues.
							It is still more impatient of the impotence  which
							springs from overdivision of government powers, the impotence which makes it
							impossible for local selfishness or for legal cunning, hired by wealthy special
							interests, to bring national activities to a deadlock. This New Nationalism regards
							the executive power as the steward of the public welfare. It demands of the judiciary
							that it shall be interested primarily in human welfare rather than in property, just
							as it demands that the representative body shall represent all the people rather than
							any one class or section of the people."
					
				


				
				

					CHAPTER XIIMR. TAFT AND REPUBLICAN
						DISINTEGRATION
					IN spite of the stirring of new economic and political forces which
						marked Mr. Roosevelt's administration and his somewhat radical utterances upon occasion,
						there was no prominent leader in the Republican party in 1908, except Mr. La Follette of
						Wisconsin, who was identified with policies which later came to be known as
						"progressive." Although Mr. Hughes, as governor of New York, had enlisted national
						interest in his "fight with the bosses," he was, by temperament, conservative rather
						than radical, and his doctrines were not primarily economic in character. Other
						Republican aspirants were also of a conservative cast of mind, Mr. Fairbanks, of
						Indiana, Mr. Knox, of Pennsylvania, Mr. Cannon, of Illinois, all of whom were indorsed
						for the presidency by their respective states. The radical element among the Republicans
						hoped that Mr. Roosevelt would consent to accept a "second elective term"; but his flat
						refusal put an end to their plans for renomination.
					Very early in his second administration, Mr. Roosevelt made it clear that he wanted to
						see Mr. W. H. Taft, then Secretary of War, designated as his successor; and by the
						judicious employment of publicity and the proper management of the Federal patronage and
						the  southern Republican delegates, he materially aided in
						the nomination of Mr. Taft at Chicago, in June, 1908. The Republican platform of that
						year advocated a revision of the tariff, not necessarily downward, but with a due
						regard to difference between the cost of production at home and abroad; it favored an
						amendment of the Sherman anti-trust law in such a manner as to give more publicity and
						the Federal government more supervision and control; it advocated the regulation of
						the issuance of injunctions by the Federal courts; it indorsed conservation and pledged
						the party to "unfailing adherence" to Mr. Roosevelt's policies. This somewhat
						noncommittal platform was elaborated by Mr. Taft in his speech, after a conference with
						Mr. Roosevelt; the popular election of Senators was favored, an income tax of some kind
						indorsed, and a faintly radical tinge given to the party document.
					The nomination of Mr. Bryan by the Democrats was a foregone conclusion. The débâcle of
						1904 had demonstrated that the breach of 1896 could not be healed by what the western
						contingent called "the Wall Street crowd" ; and Mr. Bryan had secured complete control
						of the party organization. The convention at Denver was a personal triumph from
						beginning to end. Mr. Bryan mastered the proceedings and wrote the platform, and
						received the most telling ovation ever given to a party leader by a national
						convention.
					Having complete control, Mr. Bryan attempted what the politicians who talked most
						aggressively about the trusts had consistently refused to do--he attempted to define and
						precisely state the remedies for objectionable 
						combinations. Other leaders had discussed "good" and "bad" trusts, but they had not
						attempted the mathematics of the problem. In the platform of his party, Mr. Bryan wrote:
						"A private monopoly is indefensible and intolerable. We therefore favor the vigorous
						enforcement of the criminal law against guilty trust magnates and officials and demand
						the enactment of such additional legislation as may be necessary to make it impossible
						for private monopoly to exist in the United States." In this paragraph, there is of
						course nothing new; but it continues : "Among the additional remedies we specify three:
						first, a law preventing the duplication of directors among competing corporations;
						second, a license system which will, without abridging the rights of each state to
						create corporations or its right to regulate as it will foreign corporations doing
						business within its limits, make it necessary for a manufacturing or trading corporation
						engaged in interstate commerce to take out a federal license before it shall be
						permitted to control as much as 25 per cent of the product in which it deals, a license
						to protect the public from watered stock and to prohibit the control by such corporation
						of more than 50 per cent of the total amount of any product consumed in the United
						States; and third, a law compelling such licensed corporations to sell to all purchasers
						in all parts of the country on the same terms after making due allowance for cost of
						transportation."
					In dealing with railway corporations, the Democratic platform proposed concretely the
						valuation of railways, taking into consideration the physical as well as other elements;
						an increase in the power of the Interstate  Commerce
						Commission, giving it the initiative with reference to rates and transportation charges
						and the power to declare any rate illegal on its own motion, and to inspect railway
						tariffs before permitting them to go into effect; and finally an efficient supervision
						and regulation of railroads engaged in interstate commerce.
					Mr. Bryan's proposals, particularly with regard to trusts, were greeted with no little
						derision on the part of many practical men of affairs, but they had, at least, the merit
						of being more definite in character than any statement of anti-trust policy which had
						been made hitherto, except by the Socialists in advocating public ownership. The
						Republicans, for example, contented themselves with simply proposing the amendment of
						the Sherman law in such a manner as to "give to the federal government greater
						supervision and control over and secure greater publicity in the management of that
						class of corporations engaged in interstate commerce having power and opportunity to
						effect monopolies."
					The campaign of 1908 was without any specially dramatic incidents. The long stumping
						tours by all candidates did not seem to elicit the old-time enthusiasm. The corporation
						interests that had long financed the Republican party once more poured out treasure like
						water (as the Clapp investigation afterward revealed in 1912); and Mr. Bryan attempted a
						counter-movement by asking for small contributions from each member of his party, but he
						was sadly disappointed by the results. The Democratic national committee announced that
						it would receive no contributions from corporations, that it would accept no more than
						$10,000 from any  individual, and that it would make
						public, before the election, all contributions above $100. Mr. Bryan also challenged Mr.
						Taft to make public the names of the contributors to his fund and the amount received
						from each. The Republican managers replied that they would make known their contributors
						in due time as required by the law of the state of New York where the headquarters were
						located, and Mr. Taft added that he would urge upon Congress the enactment of a law
						compelling full publicity of campaign contributions.1
					In the election which followed, Mr. Bryan was defeated for the third time. His vote was
						somewhat larger than it was in 1900, and nearly a million and a half above that cast for
						Mr. Parker in 1904. But Mr. Taft more than held the strength of his predecessor as
						measured by the popular vote, and he received 321 electoral votes against 162 cast for
						his opponent. Once more, the conservative press announced, the country had repudiated
						Populism and demonstrated its sound, conservative instincts.
					When Mr. Taft took the oath of office on March 4, 1909, he fell heir, on his own
						admission, to more troublesome problems than had been the lot of any President since
						Lincoln's day. His predecessor had kept the country interested and entertained by the
						variety of his speeches and recommendations and by his versatility in dealing with all
						the social questions which were 1 Congress by an act of 1907 forbade campaign contributions by corporations,
							in connection with Federal elections, and in 1910 and 1911 enacted laws providing for
							the publicity of expenses in connection with elections to Congress.
						 pressing to the front during his administration. Mr.
						Roosevelt velt was brilliant in his political operations, although he had been careful
						about attempting to bring too many things to concrete issue. Mr. Taft was matter-of-fact
						in his outlook and his expectations. The country had been undergoing a process of
						education, as he put it, and now the time had come for taking stock. The time had come
						for putting the house in order and settling down to a period of rest. If there were
						signs on the horizon which warned Mr. Taft against this comfortable view, his spoken
						utterances gave no sign of recognition.
					
						Legislative Measures
						The first task which confronted him was the thorny problem of the tariff. His
							predecessor had given the matter little attention during his administration,
							apparently for the reason that it was, in his opinion, of little consequence as
							compared with the questions of railways, trusts, great riches, and labor. But action
							could not be indefinitely postponed. Undoubtedly there was a demand in many parts of
							the country for a tariff revision. How widespread it was, how much it was the creation
							of the politicians, how intelligent and deep-seated it was, no one could tell.
							Nevertheless, more than ten years had elapsed since the enactment of the Dingley law
							of 1897, and many who did not entertain radical views on the subject at all joined in
							demanding a revision on the ground that conditions had materially changed. The
							Republican platform had promised revision on the basis that the true principle of
							protection  was best maintained by the imposition of
							such duties "as will equal the difference between the cost of production at home and
							abroad, together with a reasonable profit to American industries." Mr. Taft in his
							speech of acceptance had promised revision, on the theory that some schedules were too
							high and others too low; and his language during the campaign had been interpreted to
							mean a more severe downward revision than he had doubtless contemplated.
						In accordance with party pledges Mr. Taft called Congress in a special session on
							March 11, 1909, and after a hotly contested battle the Payne-Aldrich tariff act was
							passed. The President made no considerable effort to force the hand of Congress one
							way or the other, and he accepted the measure on the theory that it was the best
							tariff law that could be got at the time. Indeed, it was pointed out by members of his
							party that the bill contained "654 decreases in duty, 220 increases, and 1150 items of
							the dutiable list in which the rates were unchanged." It was also stated that the bill
							was framed in accordance with the spirit of the party platform which had made no
							promise of a general sweeping reduction. It was admitted, however, that precise
							information upon the difference between the cost of production at home and abroad
							could not have been obtained in time for this revision, but a tariff board was created
							by law for the purpose of obtaining the desired information, on the basis of which
							readjustments in schedules could be made from time to time.
						On April 9, 1909, the Payne tariff act passed the House, one Republican voting
							against it and four 323  Democrats from Louisiana voting
							in favor of it. This vote, however, was of no significance; the real test was the vote
							on the several amendments proposed from time to time to the original bill, and on
							these occasions the Democratic lines were badly broken. On April 12, Mr. Aldrich
							introduced in the Senate a tariff bill which had been carefully prepared by the
							finance committee of which he was chairman. This measure followed more closely the
							Dingley law, making no recommendations concerning some of the commodities which the
							House had placed on the free list, and passing over the subject of income and
							inheritance taxes without remark. The Aldrich measure was bitterly attacked by
							insurgent Republicans from the West,--Senators Dolliver and Cummins, of Iowa, La
							Follette, of Wisconsin, Beveridge, of Indiana, and Bristow, of Kansas,--who held out
							to the last and voted against the bill, even as amended, on its final passage, July 8.
							The conference committee of the two Houses settled their differences by July 30, and
							on August 5 the tariff bill became a law.
						There were several features of the transaction which deserve special notice. Very
							early in the Senate proceedings on the bill, an income tax provision was introduced by
							Senators Cummins and Bailey, and it looked as if enough support could be secured from
							the two parties to enact it into law. Although President Taft, in his acceptance
							speech, had expressed an opinion to the effect that an income tax could be
							constitutionally enacted notwithstanding the decision of the Supreme Court in the
							Income Tax cases, he blocked the proposal to couple an income tax measure with the
							tariff bill,  by sending a special message on June 16,
							recommending the passage of a constitutional amendment empowering Congress to levy a
							general income tax, and advising a tax on the earnings of corporations. His
							suggestions were accepted by Congress. The proposed amendment to the Constitution was
							passed unanimously by the Senate, and by an overwhelming majority in the House,1 and a tax on the net incomes of
							corporations was also adopted. A customs court to be composed of five judges to hear
							appeals in customs cases was set up, and a tariff commission to study all aspects of
							the question, particularly the differences between cost of production in the United
							States and abroad, was created.
						Revision of the tariff had always been a thankless task for any party. The Democrats
							had found it such in 1894 when their bill had failed to please any one, including
							President Cleveland, and when for collateral or independent reasons a period of
							industrial depression had set in. The McKinley bill of 1890 had aroused a storm of
							protest which had swept the Republicans out of power, and it is probable that the
							Dingley tariff of 1897 would have created similar opposition if it could have been
							disentangled from the other overshadowing issues growing out of the Spanish War. The
							Payne-Aldrich tariff likewise failed to please; but its failure was all the more
							significant because its passage was opposed by such a large number of prominent party
							members. The Democrats, as was naturally to be expected, made all they could out of
							the situation, and 1The
								Sixteenth Amendment was proclaimed in force on February 25, 1913.
							 cried "Treason." Even what appeared to be a concession
							to the radicals, the adoption of a resolution providing for an amendment to the
							Constitution authorizing the imposition of an income tax, was not accepted as a
							consolation, but was looked upon as a subterfuge to escape the probable dilemma of
							having an income tax law passed immediately and submitted to the Supreme Court
							again.
						Notwithstanding the dissensions within his party, Mr. Taft continued steadily to
							press a legislative policy which he had marked out. In a special message on January 7,
							1910, he recommended the creation of a court of commerce to have jurisdiction, among
							other things, over appeals from the Interstate Commerce Commission. This proposal was
							enacted into law on June 18, 1910; and the appointments were duly made by the
							President. The career of the tribunal was not, however, particularly happy. Some of
							its decisions against the rulings of the Commission were popularly regarded as too
							favorable to railway interests; one of the judges, Mr. Archbald, of Pennsylvania, was
							impeached and removed on the ground that his private relations with certain railway
							corporations were highly questionable; and at length Congress in 1913 terminated its
							short life.
						Acting upon a recommendation of the President, Congress, in June, 1910, passed a law
							providing for the establishment of a postal savings system in connection with the post
							offices. The law authorized the payment of two per cent interest on money deposited at
							the designated post offices and the distribution of all such  deposits among state and national banks under the protection of bonds
							placed with the Treasurer of the United States. The scheme was applied experimentally
							at a few offices and then rapidly extended, until within two years it was in operation
							at more than 12,000 offices and over $20,000,000 was on deposit. The plan which had
							been branded as "socialistic" a few years before when advocated by the Populists was
							now hailed as an enlightened reform, even by the banks as well as business men, for
							they discovered that it brought out secret hoardings and gave the banks the benefit at
							a low rate of interest--lower than that paid by ordinary savings concerns.
						The postal savings system was shortly supplemented by a system of parcels post. Mr.
							Taft strongly advocated the establishment of such a system, and it had been urged in
							Congress for many years, but had been blocked by the opposition of the express
							companies, for obvious reasons, and by country merchants who feared that they would be
							injured by the increased competition of the mail order departments of city stores.
							Finally, by a law approved on August 24, 1912, Congress made provision for the
							establishment of this long-delayed service, and it was put into effect on January 1,
							1913, thus enabling the United States to catch up with the postal systems of other
							enlightened nations. Although the measure was sharply criticized for its rates and
							classifications, it was generally approved and regarded as the promising beginning of
							an institution long desired.
						While helping to add these new burdens to the post-office administration, Mr. Taft
							directed his attention to  the urgent necessity for more
							businesslike methods on the part of the national administration in general, and, on
							his recommendation, Congress appropriated in 1910 $100,000 "to enable the President to
							inquire into the methods of transacting the public business of the Executive
							Department and other government establishments, and to recommend to Congress such
							legislation as may be necessary." A board of experts, known as the Economy and
							Efficiency Commission, was thereupon appointed, and it set to work examining the
							several branches of administration with a view to discovering wasteful and obsolete
							methods in use and recommending changes and practices which would result in saving
							money and producing better results. Among other things, the Commission undertook an
							examination of the problem of a national budget along lines followed by the best
							European governments, and it suggested the abandonment of the time-honored
							"log-rolling" process of making appropriations, in favor of a consistent,
							consolidated, and businesslike budget based upon national needs and not the demands of
							localities for Federal "improvements," regardless of their utility.
						Although he was sharply attacked by the advocates of conservation for appointing and
							supporting as Secretary of the Interior, Mr. R. A. Ballinger, who was charged with
							favoring certain large corporations seeking public land grants, Mr. Taft devoted no
							little attention to the problem of conserving the natural resources. In 1910, Congress
							enacted two important laws bearing on the subject. By a measure approved June 22, it
							provided for agricultural entries on coal lands and the 
							separation of the surface from the mineral rights in such lands. By another law,
							approved three days later, Congress made provision for the withdrawal of certain lands
							for water-power sites, irrigation, classification of lands, and other public purposes.
							These laws settled some questions of legality which had been raised with reference to
							earlier executive action in withdrawing lands from entry and gave the President
							definite authority to control important aspects of conservation.
						From the opening of his administration Mr. Taft used his influence in every
							legitimate way to assist in the development of the movement for international peace.
							In his acceptance speech, at the opening of his campaign for election, he had remarked
							upon the significance and importance of the arbitration treaties which had been signed
							between nations and upon the contribution of Mr. Roosevelt's administration to the
							cause of world peace. Following out his principles, Mr. Taft signed with France and
							England in August, 1911, general arbitration treaties expanding the range of the older
							agreements so as to include all controversies which were "justiciable" in character,
							even though they might involve questions of "vital interest and national honor." The
							treaties, which were hailed by the peace advocates with great acclaim, met a cold
							reception in the Senate which ratified them on March 7, 1912, only after making
							important amendments that led to their abandonment.
						Among the most significant of Mr. Taft's acts were his appointments of the Supreme
							Court judges. On the death of Chief Justice Fuller, in 1910, he selected for that 
								 high post Associate Justice White. In the course of
							his administration, Mr. Taft also had occasion to select five associate justices, and
							he appointed Mr. Horace H. Lurton, of Tennessee, Charles E. Hughes, governor of New
							York, Mr. Willis Van Devanter, of Wyoming, Mr. Joseph R. Lamar, of Georgia, and Mr.
							Mahlon Pitney, of New Jersey. Thus within four years the President was able to
							designate a majority of the judges of the most powerful court in the world, and to
							select the Chief Justice who presided over it.
						It was hardly to be expected that the exercise of such a significant power would
							escape criticism, particularly in view of the nature of the cases which are passed
							upon by that Court. Mr. Bryan was particularly severe in his attacks, charging the
							President with deliberately packing the Court. "You appointed to the Chief Justiceship
							of the Supreme Court," he said, "Justice White who thirteen years ago took the trusts'
							side of the trust question1 . .
							You appointed Governor Hughes to the Supreme Court bench after he had interpreted your
							platform to suit the trusts." Mr. Bryan also demanded that Mr. Taft let the people
							know "the influences" that dictated his appointments. Mr. Bryan attacked particularly
							the selection of Mr. Van Devanter, declaring that the latter, by his decisions in the
							lower court, was a notorious favorite of corporation interests. Mr. Taft looked upon
							these attacks as insults to himself and the judges, and treated them with the scant
							courtesy which, in his opinion, they deserved. The episode, however, was of no little
							significance in stirring up 1 See below, p. 332.
							 public interest in the constitution of a tribunal that
							was traditionally supposed to be "non-political" in its character.
					
					
						The Anti-Trust Cases
						Mr. Taft approached the trust problem with the preconceptions of the lawyer who
							believes that the indefinite dissolution of combinations is possible under the law.
							His predecessor had, it is true, instituted many proceedings against trusts, but there
							was a certain lack of sharpness in his tone, which was doubtless due to the fact that
							he believed and openly declared that indiscriminate prosecutions under the Sherman law
							(which was, in his opinion, unsound in many features) were highly undesirable. Mr.
							Taft, on the other hand, apparently looked at the law and not the economics of the
							problem. During Harrison's administration there had been four bills in equity and
							three indictments under the Sherman law; during Cleveland's administration, four
							bills in equity, two indictments, two informations for contempt; during McKinley's
							administration, three bills in equity. Mr. Roosevelt had to his record, eighteen bills
							in equity, twenty-five indictments, and one forfeiture proceeding. Within three years,
							Mr. Taft had twenty-two bills in equity and forty-five indictments to his credit.
						The very vigor with which Mr. Taft pressed the cases against the trusts did more,
							perhaps, to force a consideration of the whole question by the public than did Mr.
							Roosevelt's extended messages. As has been pointed out, the members of Congress who
							enacted the Sherman  law were very much confused in
							their notions as to what trusts really were and what combinations and practices were
							in fact to be considered in restraint of trade.1 And it must be confessed that the decisions and opinions
							of the courts, up to the beginning of Mr. Taft's administration, had not done much to
							clarify the law. In the Trans-Missouri case, decided in 1897, the Supreme Court had
							declared in effect that all combinations in restraint of trade, whether reasonable or
							unreasonable, were in fact forbidden by the law, Justice White dissenting.2
						This was not done by the Court inadvertently. Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the
							majority of the Court, distinctly marked the fact that arguments had been directed to
							that tribunal, "against the inclusion of all contracts in restraint of trade, as
							provided for by the language of the act . . . upon the alleged presumption that
							Congress, notwithstanding the language of the act, could not have intended to embrace
							all contracts, but only such as were in unreasonable restraint of trade. Under these
							circumstances we are, therefore, asked to hold that the act of Congress excepts
							contracts which are not in unreasonable restraint of trade, and which only keep rates
							up to a reasonable price, notwithstanding the language of the act makes no such
							exception. In other words, we are asked to read into the act by way of judicial
							legislation an exception that is not placed there by the lawmaking branch of the
							government. . . . It may be that the policy evidenced by the passage of the act itself
							will, if carried out, result in disaster to the 1 See above, p. 135.
							2 United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Assn., 166 U.S. 290.
							 roads. . . . Whether that will be the result or not we
							do not know and cannot predict. These considerations are, however, not for us. If the
							act ought to read as contended for by the defendants, Congress is the body to amend
							it, and not this Court by a process of judicial legislation wholly unjustifiable."
						It was no doubt fortunate for the business interests of the country that no earlier
							administration undertook a searching and drastic prosecution of combinations under the
							Sherman law; for in the view of the language of the Court it is difficult to imagine
							any kind of important interconcern agreement which would not be illegal. This very
							delay in the vigorous enforcement of the law enabled the country at large to take a
							new view of the trusts and to throw aside much of the prejudice which had
							characterized politics in the eighties and early nineties. The lawless practices of
							the great combinations and their corrupting influence were extensively discovered and
							understood; but it became increasingly difficult for demagogues to convince the public
							that any good could accrue to anybody from the ruthless attempts to disintegrate all
							large combinations in business. The more radical sections, which had formerly
							applauded the platform orator in his tirades against trusts, were turning away from
							indiscriminate abuse and listening more attentively than ever to the Socialists who
							held, and had held for half a century, to the doctrine that the trusts were a natural
							product of economic evolution and were merely paving the way to national ownership on
							a large scale.
						Consequently, between the two forces, the representatives  of corporate interests on the one hand and the spokesmen for socialistic
							doctrines on the other, the old demand for the immediate and unconditional destruc-
							tion of the trusts was sharply modified. Corporations came to see that undesirable as
							"government regulation" might be, it was still more desirable than destruction. They,
							therefore, drew to themselves a large support from sections of the population which
							did not share socialistic ideas, and still could see nothing but folly in attempting
							to resist what seemed to have the force of nature. Many working-class representatives
							ceased to wage war on the trusts as such, for they did not expect to get into the oil,
							copper, or steel business for themselves; and the farmers, on account of rising prices
							and a large appreciation in land values, listened with less gladness to the
							"war-to-the-hilt" orator. Nevertheless, a large section of the population, composed
							particularly of business men and manufacturers of the lesser industries, hoped to
							"reëstablish" what they called "fair conditions of competition" by dissolving into
							smaller units the huge corporations that dominated industry.
						In response to this demand, Mr. Taft pushed through the cases against the Standard
							Oil Company and the American Tobacco Company; and in May, 1911, the Supreme Court
							handed down decisions dissolving these combinations. In the course of his opinions,
							Chief Justice White, who had dissented in the Trans-Missouri case mentioned above,
							gave an interpretation of the Sherman Act which was regarded quite generally as an
							abandonment of the principles enunciated by the Court in that case. He said: "The
							statute, under this  view, evidenced the intent not to
							restrain the right to make and enforce contracts, whether resulting from combinations
							or otherwise, which did not unduly restrain interstate and foreign
							commerce, but to protect the commerce from being restrained by methods, whether new or
							old, which would constitute an interference that is an undue
							restraint." Thus the Chief Justice restated the doctrine of "reasonableness" which he
							had formulated in his dissenting opinion in the earlier case, but this time as the
							spokesman of the Court. It is true, he attempted with great dialectic skill to
							reconcile the old and the new opinions, and make it appear that there had been no
							change in the theories of the Court; but his attempt was not convincing to every one,
							for many shared the view expressed by Justice Harlan, to the effect that the attempt
							at reconciliation partook of the nature of a statement that black is white and white
							is black.
						The effect of these decisions was the dissolution of the two concerns into certain
							constituent parts which were supposed to reëstablish competition; but no marvelously
							beneficial economic results seem to have accrued. The inner circles of the two
							combinations made huge sums from the appreciation of stocks; the prices of gasoline
							and some other oil products mounted with astonishing speed to a higher rate than ever
							before; and smaller would-be competitors declared that the constituent companies were
							so large that competition with them was next to impossible. No one showed any great
							enthusiasm about the results of the prosecution and decisions, except perhaps some
							eminent leaders in the business world, who shared the opinion of Mr. J. P.  Morgan that the doctrines of the Court were "entirely
							satisfactory," and to be taken as meaning that indiscriminate assaults on large
							concerns, merely because of their size, would not be tolerated by the Court. Radical
							"trust-breakers" cried aloud that they had been betrayed by the eminent tribunal, and
							a very large section of the population which had come to regard trusts as a "natural
							evolution" looked upon the whole affair as an anticlimax. Mr. Taft, in a speech
							shortly after the decisions of the Court, expressed his pleasure at the outcome of the
							action and invited the confidence of the country in the policy announced. He had
							carried a great legal battle to its conclusion, only to find those who cheered the
							loudest in the beginning, indifferent at the finish.
					
					
						The Overthrow of Speaker Cannon
						From the beginning of his administration, it was apparent that Mr. Taft's party in
							Congress was not in that state of harmony which presaged an uneventful legislative
							career. The vote on the tariff bill, both in the Senate and the House, showed no
							little dissatisfaction with the way in which the affairs of the party were being
							managed. The acrimony in the tariff debate had been disturbing, and the attacks on
							Speaker Cannon from his own party colleagues increased in frequency and virulence
							inside and outside of Congress.
						Under this astute politician and keen parliamentary manager, a system of legislative
							procedure had grown up in the House, which concentrated the management of  business in the hands of a few members, while preserving
							the outward signs of democracy within the party. The Speaker enjoyed the power of
							appointing all of the committees of the House and of designating the chairmen thereof.
							Under his power to object to a request for "unanimous consent," he could refuse to
							recognize members asking for the ear of the chamber under that privilege. He,
							furthermore, exercised his general right of recognition in such a manner as to favor
							those members who were in the good graces of the inner circle, which had naturally
							risen to power through long service.
						In addition, there had been created a powerful engine, known as the "rules committee"
							which could, substantially at any time, set aside the regular operations of the House,
							fix the limits of debate, and force the consideration of any particular bill. This
							committee was composed of the Speaker and two colleagues selected by himself, for,
							although there were two Democratic representatives on the committee, they did not
							enjoy any influence in its deliberations. The outward signs of propriety were given to
							this enginery by the election of the Speaker by the party caucus, but the older
							members and shrewd managers had turned the caucus into a mere ratifying machine.
						Under this system, which was perfected through the long tenure of power enjoyed by
							the Republicans, a small group of managers, including Mr. Cannon, came to a
							substantial control over all the business of the House. A member could not secure
							recognition for a measure without "seeing" the Speaker in advance; the older members
							monopolized the important committees;  and a measure
							introduced by a private member had no chance for consideration, to say nothing of
							passage, unless its sponsor made his peace with the party managers. This system was by
							no means without its advantages. It concentrated authority in a few eminent party
							spokesmen and the country came to understand that some one was at last responsible for
							what happened in the House. The obvious disadvantage was the use of power to
							perpetuate a machine and policies which did not in fact represent the country or the
							party. Furthermore, the new and younger members could not expect to achieve anything
							until they had submitted to the proper "party discipline."
						If anything went wrong, it soon became popular to attribute the evil to "Cannon and
							his system." Attacks upon them became especially bitter in the campaign of 1908 and
							particularly venomous after the passage of the Aldrich-Payne tariff act. At length, in
							March, 1910, by a clever piece of parliamentary manipulation, some "insurgent"
							Republicans were able to present an amendment to the rules ousting the Speaker from
							membership in the rules committee, increasing the number, and providing for election
							by the House. Mr. Cannon was forced to rule on the regularity of this amendment, and
							he decided against it. On appeal from the decision of the chair, the Speaker was
							defeated by a combination of Democrats and insurgent Republicans, and the committee on
							rules was reconstructed. A motion to declare the Speakership vacant was defeated,
							however, because only eight insurgents supported it, and accordingly Mr. Cannon was
							permitted to serve  out his term. Although this was
							heralded as "a great victory," it was of no consequence in altering the management of
							business in that session; but it was a solemn portent of the defeat for the Republican
							party which lay ahead in the autumn.
					
					
						Dissensions
						The second half of Mr. Taft's administration was marked by the failure to accomplish
							many results on which he had set his mind. The election of 1910 showed that the
							country was swinging back to the Democratic party once more. In that year, the
							Democrats elected governors in Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey,
							Indiana, and some other states which had long been regarded as Republican. The
							Democrats also carried the House of Representatives, securing 227 members to 163
							Republicans and I Socialist, Mr. Berger, of Wisconsin. Although many conservative
							Republican leaders, like Mr. Cannon, Mr. Payne, and Mr. Dalzell, were returned, their
							position in the minority was seriously impaired by the election of many "insurgent"
							Republicans from the West, who were out of harmony with the old methods of the
							party.
						In view of this Democratic victory, it was inevitable that Mr. Taft should have
							trouble over the tariff. In accordance with the declarations of the Republican
							platform, he had recommended and secured the creation, in 1909, of a tariff board
							designed to obtain precise information on the relation of the tariff to production and
							labor at home and abroad. The work of this board fell 
							into three main divisions. It was, in the first place, instructed to take each article
							in the tariff schedule and "secure concise information regarding the nature of the
							article, the chief sources of supply at home and abroad, the methods of its
							production, its chief uses, statistics of production, imports and exports, with an
							estimate of the ad valorem equivalent for all specific duties." In the second place,
							it was ordered to compile statistics on the cost of production at home and abroad so
							that some real information might be available as to the difference, with a view to
							discovering the amount of protection necessary to accomplish the real purposes of a
							"scientific" tariff. Finally, the board was instructed to secure accurate information
							as to prices at home and abroad and as to the general conditions of competition in the
							several industries affected by the tariff.
						If there was to be any protection at all, it was obvious that an immense amount of
							precise information was necessary to the adjustment of schedules in such a manner as
							not to give undue advantages to American manufacturers and thus encourage sloth and
							obsolete methods on their part. Such was the view taken by Mr. Taft and the friends of
							the tariff board; but the Democratic Congress elected in 1910 gave the outward signs
							of a determination to undertake a speedy and considerable "downward revision,"
							regardless of any "scientific" information that might be collected by the
							administration. There was doubtless some demand in the country for such a revision,
							and furthermore it was "good politics" for the leaders of the new House to embarrass
							the Republican President as much as  possible. The
							opportunity was too inviting to be disregarded, particularly with a presidential
							election approaching.
						Consequently, the House, in 1911, passed three important tariff measures: a farmers'
							free list bill placing agricultural implements, boots and shoes, wire fence, meat,
							flour, lumber, and other commodities on the free list; a measure revising the famous
							"Schedule K," embracing wool and woolen manufactures; and a law reducing the duties on
							cotton manufactures; chemicals, paints, metals, and other commodities. With the
							support of the "insurgent" Republicans in the Senate these measures were passed with
							more speed than was expected by their sponsors, and Mr. Taft promptly vetoed them on
							the ground that some of them were loosely drawn and all of them were based upon
							inadequate information. The following year, an iron and steel measure and a woolens
							bill were again presented to the President and as decisively vetoed. In his veto
							messages, Mr. Taft pointed out that the concise information collected by the tariff
							board was now at the disposal of Congress and that it was possible to undertake a
							revision of many schedules which would allow a considerable reduction without
							"destroying any established industry or throwing any wage earners out of employment."
							These last veto messages, sent in August, 1912, received scant consideration from
							members of Congress already engaged in a hot political campaign.
						Mr. Taft was equally unfortunate in his attempt to secure reciprocity with Canada. In
							January, 1911, through the Secretary of State, he concluded a reciprocity  agreement with that country by the exchange of notes,
							providing for a free list of more than one hundred articles and a reduction of the
							tariff on more than four hundred articles. The agreement was submitted to the
							legislatures of the two countries. A bill embodying it passed the House, in February,
							by a Democratic vote, the insurgent Republicans standing almost solidly against it, on
							the ground that it discriminated against the farmers by introducing Canadian
							competition, while benefiting the manufacturers who had no considerable competition
							from that source. The Senate failed to act on the bill until the next session of the
							new Congress when it was passed in July with twelve insurgent and twelve regular
							Republicans against it. After having wrought this serious breach in his own party in
							Congress, Mr. Taft was sorely disappointed by seeing the whole matter fall to the
							ground through the overthrow of the Liberals in Canada at the election in September,
							1911, and the rejection by that country of the measure for which he had so laboriously
							contended.
						During the closing days of his administration, Mr. Taft was seriously beset by
							troubles with Mexico. Under the long and severe rule of General Porfirio Diaz in that
							country, order had been set up there (at whatever cost to humanity) and American
							capital had streamed into Mexican mines, railways, plantations, and other enterprises.
							In 1911, Diaz was overthrown by Francisco Madero and the latter was hardly installed
							in power before he was assassinated and a dictatorship set up under General Huerta, in
							February, 1913. After the overthrow of Diaz in 1911, Mexico was filled with  revolutionary turmoil, and American lives and property
							were gravely menaced. In April, 1912, Mr. Taft solemnly warned the Mexican government
							that the United States would hold it responsible for the destruction of American
							property and the taking of American life, but this warning was treated with scant
							courtesy by President Madero. The disorders continued to increase, and demands for
							intervention on the part of the United States were heard from innumerable interested
							quarters, but Mr. Taft refused to be drawn into an armed conflict. The Mexican trouble
							he bequeathed to his successor.
					
				


				
				

					CHAPTER XIII
						THE CAMPAIGN OF 1912
					LONG before the opening of the campaign of 1912, the dissenters in
						the Republican party who had added the prefix of "Progressive" to the old title, began
						to draw together for the purpose of resisting the renomination of Mr. Taft and putting
						forward a candidate more nearly in accord with their principles. As early as January 21,
						1911, a National Progressive Republican League was formed at the residence of Senator La
						Follette in Washington and a program set forth embracing the indorsement of direct
						primaries, direct elections, and direct government generally and a criticism of the
						recent failures to secure satisfactory legislation on the tariff, trusts, banking, and
						conservation. Only on the changes in our machinery of government did the League take a
						definite stand; on the deeper issues of political economy it was silent, at least as to
						positive proposals. Mr. Roosevelt was invited to join the new organization, but he
						declined to identify himself with it.
					For a time the Progressives centered their attacks upon Mr. Taft's administration.
						Their bill of indictment may be best stated in the language of Senator La Follette: "In
						his campaign for election, he [Mr. Taft] had interpreted the platform as a pledge for
						tariff  revision downward. Five months after he was
						inaugurated he signed a bill that revised the tariff upward.... The President started on
						a tour across the country in September, 1909. At the outset in an address at Boston he
						lauded Aldrich as the greatest statesman of his time. Then followed his Winona speech,
						in which he declared the Payne-Aldrich bill to be the best tariff ever enacted, and in
						effect challenged the Progressives in Congress who had voted against the measure. . ..
						During the succeeding sessions of Congress, President Taft's sponsorship for the
						administration railroad bill, with its commerce court, its repeal of the anti-trust act
						in its application to railroads, its legalizing of all watered railroad capitalization;
						his course regarding the Ballinger and Cunningham claims, and the subterfuges resorted
						to by his administration in defense of Ballinger; his attempt to foist upon the country
						a sham reciprocity measure; his complete surrender to the legislative reactionary
						program of Aldrich and Cannon and the discredited representatives of special interests
						who had so long managed congressional legislation, rendered it utterly impossible for
						the Progressive Republicans of the country to support him for reëlection." 1
					A second positive step in the organization of the Progressive Republicans was taken in
						April, 1911, at a conference held in the committee room of Senator Bourne, of Oregon, at
						the Capitol. At this meeting a number of Republican Senators, Representatives, newspaper
						men, and private citizens were present, and it was there agreed that the Progressives
						must unite upon some candidate 1Autobiography, p. 476.
						 in opposition to Mr. Taft. The most available man at the
						time was Senator La Follette, who had been an uncompromising and vigorous exponent of
						progressive doctrines since his entrance to the Senate in 1906; and the members of this
						conference, or at least most of them, assured him of their support in case he would
						consent to become a candidate for nomination. The Senator was informed by men very close
						to Mr. Roosevelt that the latter would, under no circumstances, enter the field; and he
						was afforded the financial assistance necessary to open headquarters for the purpose of
						advancing his candidacy. No formal announcement of the adherence of the group to Mr. La
						Follette was then made, for the reason that Senator Cummins, of Iowa, and some other
						prominent Republicans declined to sign the call to arms.1
					In July, 1911, Senator La Follette began his active campaign for nomination as an
						avowed Progressive Republican, and within a few months he had developed an unexpected
						strength, particularly in the Middle West, which indicated the depth of the popular
						dissatisfaction with Mr. Taft's administration. In October of that year a national
						conference of Progressive Republicans assembled at Chicago, on the call of Mr. La
						Follette's campaign manager, and indorsed the Senator in unmistakable language,
						declaring him to be "the logical Republican candidate for President of the United
						States," and urging the formation of organizations in all states to promote his
						nomination. In spite of these outward signs of prosperity, however, Mr. La Follette
							1 La Follette,Autobiography, pp. 516 ff.
						 was by no means sure of his supporters, for several of
						the most prominent, including Mr. Gifford Pinchot and Mr. James R. Garfield, were not
						whole-hearted in their advocacy of his cause and were evidently unwilling to relinquish
						the hope that Mr. Roosevelt might become their leader after all.
					Indeed, Senator La Follette came to believe that many of his supporters, who afterward
						went over to Mr. Roosevelt, never intended to push his own candidacy to the end, but
						employed him as a sort of "stalking horse" to interest and measure progressive sentiment
						for the purpose of putting the ex-President into the field at the opportune moment, if
						the signs proved auspicious. This was regarded by Mr. La Follette not merely as
						treachery to himself, but also as treason to genuine progressive principles. In his
						opinion, Mr. Roosevelt's long administration of seven years had failed to produce many
						material results. He admitted that the ex-President had done something to promote
						conservation of natural resources, but called attention to the fact that the movement
						for conservation had been begun even as early as Harrison's administration.1 He pointed out that Mr. Roosevelt
						had vigorously indorsed the Payne-Aldrich tariff in the New York state campaign of 1910;
						and that during his administration the formation and overcapitalization of gigantic
						combinations had gone forward with unprecedented speed, in spite of the denunciation of
						"bad trusts" in executive messages. Furthermore, the Senator directly charged Mr.
						Roosevelt with having used the power of the Federal 1Autobiography, pp. 480 ff.,
							543 f., 551, 700, 740.
						 patronage against him in his fight for progressive
						reforms in Wisconsin.
					So decided was Senator La Follette's distrust of Mr. Roosevelt's new "progressivism,"
						that nothing short of a lengthy quotation can convey the spirit of it. "While Mr.
						Roosevelt was President," says the Senator, "his public utterances through state papers,
						addresses, and the press were highly colored with rhetorical radicalism. His
						administrative policies as set forth in his recommendations to Congress were vigorously
						and picturesquely presented, but characterized by an absence of definite economic
						conception. One trait was always pronounced. His most savage assault upon special
						interests was invariably offset with an equally drastic attack upon those who were
						seeking to reform abuses. These were indiscriminately classed as demagogues and
						dangerous persons. In this way he sought to win approval, both from the radicals and the
						conservatives. This cannonading, first in one direction and then in another, filled the
						air with noise and smoke, which confused and obscured the line of action, but when the
						battle cloud drifted by and quiet was restored, it was always a matter of surprise that
						so little had really been accomplished .... He smeared the issue, but caught the
						imagination of the younger men of the country by his dash and mock heroics. Taft
						coöperated with Cannon and Aldrich on legislation. Roosevelt coöperated with Aldrich and
						Cannon on legislation. Neither President took issue with the reactionary bosses of the
						Senate upon any legislation of national importance. Taft's talk was generally in line
						with his  legislative policy. Roosevelt's talk was
						generally at right angles to his legislative policy. Taft's messages were the more
						directly reactionary; Roosevelt's the more 'progressive.' But adhering to his conception
						of a 'square deal,' his strongest declarations in the public interest were invariably
						offset with something comforting for Privilege; every phrase denouncing 'bad' trusts was
						deftly balanced with praise for 'good' trusts." It is obvious that a man so deeply
						convinced of Mr. Roosevelt's insincerity of purposes and instability of conviction could
						not think of withdrawing in his favor or of lending any countenance to his candidacy for
						nomination. To Senator La Follette the "directly reactionary" policy of Mr. Taft was far
						preferable to the "mock heroics" of Mr. Roosevelt.
					Nevertheless, at the opening of the presidential year, 1912, all speculations turned
						upon the movements of Mr. Roosevelt. His long trip to Africa and Europe and his brief
						abstention from politics on his return in June, 1910, led many, who did not know him, to
						suppose that he might emulate the example set by Mr. Cleveland in retiring from active
						affairs. If he entertained any such notions, it was obvious that the exigencies of
						affairs in his party were different from those in the Democratic party after 1897.
						Indeed, during the very summer after his return, the cleavage between the reformist
						Hughes wing of the Republicans in New York and the "regular" group headed by Mr. William
						Barnes had developed into an open breach; and at the earnest entreaty of the
						representatives of the former faction, Mr. Roosevelt plunged into the state contest,
						defeated Vice President  Sherman in a hot fight for
						chairmanship of the state convention, and secured the nomination of Mr. H. A. Stimson as
						the Republican candidate for governor. The platform which was adopted by the convention
						was colorless enough for the most conservative party member and gave no indication of
						the radical drift manifested two years later at Chicago. The defeat of Mr. Stimson gave
						no little satisfaction to the ex-President's opponents, particularly to those who hoped
						that he had at last been "eliminated."
					They had not, however, counted on their man. During the New York gubernatorial
						campaign, he made a tour of the West, and in a series of remarkable speeches, he stirred
						that region by the enunciation of radical doctrines which were listened to gladly by the
						multitude. In an address at Ossawatomie, Kansas, on August 31, 1910, he expounded his
						principles under the title of "the New Nationalism." He there advocated Federal
						regulation of trusts, a graduated income tax, tariff revision schedule by schedule,
						conservation, labor legislation, the direct primary, recall of elective officers, and
						the adjustment of state and Federal relations in such a form that there might be no
						neutral ground to serve as the refuge for lawbreakers.1 In editorials in the Outlook, of which he
						was the contributing editor, and in his speeches, Mr. Roosevelt continued to discuss Mr.
						Taft's policies and the current issues of popular government. At length, in February,
						1912, in an address before the constitutional convention of Ohio, he came out for a
						complete program of "direct" government, the l See above, p. 314.
						 initiative, referendum, and recall; but with such careful
						qualifications that the more radical progressives were still unconvinced.1
					Notwithstanding his extensive discussion of current issues and his great popularity
						with a large section of the Progressive group, Mr. Roosevelt steadily put away all
						suggestions that he should become a candidate in 1912. In a letter to the Pittsburgh Leader, of August 22, 1911, he said: "I must ask not only you, but every
						friend I have, to see to it that no movement whatever is made to bring me forward for
						nomination in 1912. . . . I should esteem it a genuine calamity if such a movement were
						undertaken." Nevertheless, all along, men who were very close to him believed that he
						would not refuse the nomination if it were offered to him under proper circumstances. As
						time went on his utterances became more pronounced, particularly in his western
						speeches, and friendly as well as unfriendly newspapers insisted on viewing his conduct
						as a distinct appeal for popular support for the Republican nomination.
					The climax came in February, 1912, when seven Republican Governors, Glasscock, of West
						Virginia, Aldrich, of Nebraska, Bass, of New Hampshire, Carey, of Wyoming, Stubbs, of
						Kansas, Osborn, of Michigan, and Hadley, of Missouri, issued a statement that the
						requirements of good government demanded his candidature, that the great majority
						of Republican voters desired it, that he stood for the principles and policies most
						conducive to public happiness and prosperity, and 1La Follette, Autobiography,
							p. 616.
						 finally that it was his plain duty to accept regardless
						of his personal interests or preferences. To this open challenge, he replied on February
						24 by saying that he would accept the nomination if tendered and abide by this decision
						until the convention had expressed its preference. The only political doctrine which he
						enunciated was belief "in the rule of the people," and on this principle he expressed a
						desire for direct primaries to ascertain the will of the party members.
					
						The Nomination of Candidates in 1912
						A new and unexpected turn was given to the campaign for nomination by the adoption of
							the preferential primary in a number of states, East as well as West. As we have
							seen, the direct primary1 was
							brought into action by men who found themselves outside of the old party
							intrenchments. La Follette, in Wisconsin, Stubbs, in Kansas, Hughes, in New York, and
							the other advocates of the system, having failed to capture the old strongholds,
							determined to blow them up; the time had now come for an attack on the national
							convention. President Taft and the regular Republican organization were in possession
							of the enormous Federal patronage, and they knew how to use it just as well as had Mr.
							Roosevelt in 1908 when he forced the nomination of Mr. Taft. True to their ancient
							traditions, the Republican provinces in the South began, early in 1912, to return
							"representatives" instructed to vote for a second term for President Taft. But the
							Progressives were forearmed as well as forewarned. 1Above, p. 288.


						

						As early as February 27, 1912, Senator Bourne had warned the country that the
							overthrow of "the good old ways" of nominating presidential candidates was at hand. In
							a speech on that date, he roundly denounced the convention and described the new
							Oregon system. He declared that nominations in national conventions were made by the
							politicians, and that the "electorate of the whole United States is permitted only to
							witness in gaping expectancy, and to ratify at the polls in the succeeding November."
							The flagrancy of this abuse, however, paled into insignificance, added Mr. Bourne, "in
							the presence of that other abuse against partisan conscience and outrage upon the
							representative system which is wrought by the Republican politician in hopelessly
							Democratic states and by the Democratic politician in hopelessly Republican states in
							dominating the national conventions with the presence of these unrepresentative
							delegations that represent neither party, people, nor principle."
						The speaker then elaborated these generalities by reference to details. He pointed
							out that the southern states and territories which (except Maryland) gave no electoral
							votes to Mr. Taft had 338 delegates in the convention, only 153 less than a majority
							of the entire party assembly, four more than the combined votes of New York,
							Pennsylvania, Illinois, Ohio, Massachusetts, Indiana, and Iowa with 334 delegates.
							Moreover, equal representation of states and territories on the national committee and
							on the committee on credentials--the two bodies which, in the first instance, pass
							upon the rights of delegates to their seats--gave undue weight  to the very states where wrongs were most likely to be committed. As to
							the power of the Republican President of the United States to control these delegates
							from the South, the Senator was in no doubt.
						To the anomalous southern delegates were added the delegates selected in northern
							states by the power of patronage. Mr. Bourne was specific: "Three years ago," he said,
							"we had a convincing exhibition of the power of a President to dictate the selection
							of his successor. At that time, three fourths of the Republican voters of my state
							were in favor of the renomination of Mr. Roosevelt, and believing that their wishes
							should be observed, I endeavored to secure a delegation from that state favorable to
							his nomination for a second elective term. But through the tremendous power of the
							Chief Executive and of the Federal machine the delegates selected by our state
							convention were instructed for Mr. Taft. After all the delegates were elected and
							instructed, a poll was taken by one of the leading newspapers in Portland, which city
							contains nearly one third of the entire population of the state. The result indicated
							that the preference of the people of the state was 11 to 1 in favor of Mr. Roosevelt
							as against Mr. Taft." It was this personal experience with the power of Federal
							patronage that induced Mr. Bourne to draft the Oregon presidential primary law which
							was enacted by the use of the initiative and referendum in 1910.
						The provisions of the Oregon law follow:
						(1) At the regular primary held on the forty-fifth day before the first Monday in
							June of the presidential year, each voter is given an opportunity to express his  preference for one candidate for the office of President
							and one for that of Vice President, either by writing the names or by making crosses
							before the printed names on the ballot.
						(2) The names of candidates for the two offices are placed on the ballot without
							their consent, if necessary, by petitions filed by their supporters, just as in the
							case of candidates for governor and United States Senator.
						(3) The committee or organization which places a presidential aspirant on the primary
							ballot is provided, on payment therefor, four pages in the campaign book issued by the
							state, and electors who oppose or approve of any such aspirant for nomination are
							likewise given space in the campaign book.
						(4) Delegates to national conventions and presidential electors must be nominated at
							large at the primary.
						(5) Every delegate is paid his expenses to the national convention; in no case,
							however, more than $200.
						(6) Every delegate must take an oath to the effect that he will "to the best of his
							judgment and ability faithfully carry out the wishes of his political party as
							expressed by its voters at the time of his election." The initial move of Oregon to
							secure a preferential vote on candidates and the instruction of delegates was followed
							in 1911 by New Jersey, Nebraska, California, North Dakota, and Wisconsin, and in 1912
							by Massachusetts, Illinois, and Maryland.
						The other presidential primary laws show some 
							variations on the Oregon plan although they agree in affording the voter an
							opportunity to express his preference. Nebraska, for example, refused to disregard the
							Republican system of district representation, and provided that "four delegates shall
							be elected by the voters of the state at large; the remainder of the delegates shall
							be equally divided between the various congressional districts in the state and
							district delegates shall be elected by the voters of the various congressional
							districts in the state." Massachusetts follows Nebraska in this rule, but California
							prefers the Oregon plan of election at large. It was this provision in the law of
							California that caused the controversy over the seating of two district delegates at
							Chicago in June, 1912. Although Mr. Roosevelt carried the state, one of the districts
							went for Mr. Taft, and the convention seated the delegates from this district, on the
							ground that the rules of the party override a state statute.
						The Illinois law does not attempt to bind the delegates to a strict observance of the
							results of the primary. On the contrary it expressly states "that the vote for
							President of the United States as herein provided for shall be for the sole purpose of
							securing an expression of the sentiment and will of the party voters with respect to
							the candidate for nomination for said office, and the vote of the state at large shall
							be taken and considered as advisory to the delegates and alternates at large to the
							national conventions of the respective political parties; and the vote of the
							respective congressional districts shall be taken and considered as advisory to the
							delegates and alternates of the said congressional 
							districts to the national convention of the respective political parties."
						The existence of these laws in several strategic states made it necessary for the
							Republican and Democratic candidates to go directly before the voters to discuss party
							issues. The country witnessed the unhappy spectacle of two former friends, Mr. Taft
							and Mr. Roosevelt, waging bitter war upon each other on the hustings. The former
							denounced the Progressives as "political emotionalists or neurotics." The latter
							referred to his candidacy in the words, "My hat is in the ring"; and during his
							campaign fiercely turned upon Mr. Taft. He gave to the public a private letter in
							which Mr. Taft acknowledged that Mr. Roosevelt had voluntarily transferred to him the
							presidential office, and added the comment, "It is a bad trait to bite the hand that
							feeds you."
						Mr. Roosevelt's candidature was lavishly supported by Mr. G. W. Perkins, of the Steel
							and Harvester Trusts, and by other gentlemen of great wealth who had formerly indorsed
							Mr. Hanna's methods; and all of the old engines of politics were brought into play.
							While making the popular appeal in the North, Mr. Roosevelt's managers succeeded in
							securing a large quota of "representatives" from the southern Republican provinces to
							contest those already secured by Mr. Taft. As the matter was put by the Washington Times, a paper owned by Mr. Munsey, one of Mr. Roosevelt's ardent
							supporters: "For psychological effect, as a move in practical politics, it was
							necessary for the Roosevelt people to start contests on these early Taft selections,
							in order  that a tabulation of strength could be put out
							that would show Roosevelt holding a good hand in the game. A table showing 'Taft, 150,
							Roosevelt, 19; contested none,' would not be likely to inspire confidence. Whereas one
							showing 'Taft, 23, Roosevelt, 19; contested, 127,' looked very different."
						The results of the Republican presidential primaries were astounding. Mr. Roosevelt
							carried Illinois by a majority of 100,000; he obtained 67 of the 76 delegates from
							Pennsylvania; the state convention in Michigan broke up in a riot; he carried
							California by a vote of two to one as against Mr. Taft; he swept New Jersey and South
							Dakota; and he secured the eight delegates at large in Massachusetts, although Mr.
							Taft carried the preferential vote by a small majority. Connecticut and New York were
							strongly for Mr. Taft, and Mr. La Follette carried Wisconsin and North Dakota. Mr.
							Taft's supporters called attention to the fact that a very large number of Republicans
							had failed to vote at all in the preferential primaries, but they were speedily
							informed by the opposition that they would see the shallowness of this contention if
							they inquired into the number who voted for delegates to the conventions which
							indorsed Mr. Taft.
						When the Republican convention assembled in Chicago, 252 of the 1078 seats were
							contested; 238 of these were held by Mr. Taft's delegates and 14 by Mr. Roosevelt's
							supporters. The national committee, after the usual hearings, decided the contests in
							such a manner as to give Mr. Taft a safe majority. No little ingenuity was expended on
							both sides to show the legality or the  illegality of
							the several decisions. Mr. Taft's friends pointed out that they had been made in a
							constitutional manner by the proper authority, the national committee "chosen in 1908
							when Roosevelt was the leader of the party, at a time when his influence dominated the
							convention." Mr. Roosevelt's champions replied by cries of "fraud." Independent
							newspapers remarked that there was no more "regularity" about one set of southern
							delegates than another; that the national committee had followed the example set by
							Mr. Roosevelt when he forced Mr. Taft's nomination in 1908 by using southern
							delegations against the real Republican states which had instructed for other
							candidates; and that what was sauce for the goose was sauce for the gander. Whatever
							may be the merits of the technical claims made on both sides, it seems fair to say
							that Mr. Roosevelt, according to all available signs, particularly the vote in the
							primaries in the strategic states, was the real choice of the Republican party.
						The struggle over the contested seats was carried into the convention, and after a
							hot fight, Mr. Taft's forces were victorious. When at length, as Mr. Bryan put it,
							"the credentials committee made its last report and the committee-made majority had
							voted itself the convention," Mr. Roosevelt's supporters on Saturday, June 22,
							after a week's desperate maneuvering, broke with the Republican assembly. A statement
							prepared by Mr. Roosevelt was read as a parting shot. "The convention," he said, "has
							now declined to purge the roll of the fraudulent delegates placed thereon by the
							defunct national committee, and the majority which has thus  indorsed the fraud was made a majority only because it included the
							fraudulent delegates themselves who all sat as judges on one another's cases. . .. The
							convention as now composed has no claim to represent the voters of the Republican
							party. . . . Any man nominated by the convention as now constituted would merely be
							the beneficiary of this successful fraud; it would be deeply discreditable to any man
							to accept the convention's nomination under these circumstances; and any man thus
							accepting it would have no claim to the support of any Republican on party grounds and
							would have forfeited the right to ask the support of any honest man of any party on
							moral grounds."
						Mr. Roosevelt's severe arraignment of men who had been his bosom friends and chief
							political advisers and supporters filled with astonishment many thoughtful observers
							in all parties who found it difficult to account for his conduct. In Mr. Roosevelt's
							bitter speech at the Auditorium mass meeting on the evening of June 17, 1912, a sharp
							line was drawn between the "treason" of the Republican "Old Guard" and the "purity" of
							his supporters. Of this, Mr. Bryan said, with much irony: "He carried me back to the
							day when I first learned of this world-wide, never-ending contest between the
							beneficiaries of privilege and the unorganized masses; and I can appreciate the
							amazement which he must feel that so many honest and well-meaning people seem blind or
							indifferent to what is going on. I passed through the same period of amazement when I
							first began to run for President. My only regret is that we have not had the benefit
							of his powerful assistance during the campaigns  in
							which we have protested against the domination of politics by predatory corporations.
							He probably feels more strongly stirred to action to-day because he was so long
							unconscious of the forces at work thwarting the popular will. The fact, too, that he
							has won prestige and position for himself and friends through the support of the very
							influences which he now so righteously denounces must still further increase the sense
							of responsibility which he feels at this time. . . He ought to find encouragement in
							my experience. I have seen several campaigns end in a most provoking way, and yet I
							have lived to see a Republican ex-President cheered by a Republican audience for
							denouncing men who, only a few years ago, were thought to be the custodians of the
							nation's honor."1
						When Mr. Roosevelt definitely broke with the Republican convention, most of his
							followers left that assembly, and the few that stayed behind there refused to vote on
							roll call. The substantial "rump" which remained proceeded with the business as if
							nothing had happened, and renominated Mr. Taft and Mr. Sherman as the candidates of
							the Republican party. The regulars retained the battle field, but they could not fail
							to recognize how forlorn was the hope that led them on.
						On examining the vote on Mr. Root and Mr. McGovern, as candidates for temporary
							chairman, it becomes apparent that the real strength of the party was with Mr.
							Roosevelt. The former candidate, representing the conservative wing, received the
							overwhelming majority of the votes of the southern states, like Alabama, Georgia,
								1A Tale of
									Two Conventions, p. 27.
							 Louisiana, Mississippi, and Virginia, where the
							Republican organization was a political sham; he did not carry the majority of the
							delegates of a single one of the strategic Republican states of the North except
							Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, and New York. Massachusetts and Wisconsin were evenly
							divided; but the other great Republican states were against him. Minnesota, Nebraska,
							New Jersey, North and South Dakota were solid for McGovern. Ohio gave thirty-four of
							her thirty-eight votes for him; Illinois, forty-nine out of fifty-eight; California,
							twenty-four out of twenty-six; Kansas, eighteen out of twenty; Oregon, six out of
							nine; Pennsylvania, sixty-four out of seventy-six. In nearly every state where there
							had been a preferential primary Mr. Roosevelt had carried the day. Mr. Root won by a
							vote of 558 to 501 for Mr. McGovern. It was a victory, but it bore the sting of death.
							When he stepped forward to deliver his address, the applause that greeted him was
							broken by cries of "Receiver of stolen goods."
						If the supporters of Mr. Taft in the convention had any doubts as to the character of
							the methods employed to secure his nomination or the conduct of the convention itself,
							they were more than repaid for their labors by what they believed to be the salvation
							of the party in the hour of a great crisis. To them, the attacks on the judiciary,
							representative institutions, and the established order generally were so serious and
							so menacing that if high-handed measures were ever justified they were on that
							occasion. The instruments which they employed were precisely those which had been
							developed in party usage and had been wielded with kindred results in 1908  by the eminent gentleman who created so much disturbance
							when he fell a victim to them. Mr. Taft's supporters must have foreseen defeat from
							the hour when the break came, but they preferred defeat in November to the surrender
							of all that the party had stood for since the Civil War.
						The Republican platform was not prolix or very specific, but on general principles it
							took a positive stand. It adhered to the traditional American doctrine of individual
							liberty, protected by constitutional safeguards and enforced by the courts; and it
							declared the recall of judges to be "unnecessary and unwise." It announced the purpose
							of the party to go forward with a program of social legislation, but it did not go
							into great detail on this point. President Taft's policy of submitting justiciable
							controversies between nations to arbitration was indorsed. The amendment of the
							Sherman law in such a manner as to make the illegal practices of trusts and
							corporations more specific was favored, and the creation of a Federal trade commission
							to deal with interstate business affected with public use was recommended. The
							historic views of the party on the tariff were restated and sound currency and banking
							legislation promised. The insinuation that the party was reactionary was repudiated by
							a declaration that it had always been a genuinely progressive party, never stationary
							or reactionary, but always going from the fulfillment of one pledge to another in
							response to public need and popular will.
						In his acceptance speech, Mr. Taft took issue with all the radical tendencies of the
							time and expressed his  profound gratitude for the
							righteous victory at Chicago, where they had been saved from the man "whose recently
							avowed political views would have committed the party to radical proposals involving
							dangerous changes in our present constitutional form of representative government and
							our independent judiciary." The widespread popular unrest which forced itself upon the
							attention of even the most indifferent spectators, Mr. Taft attributed to the
							sensational journals, muckraking, and demagogues, and he declared that the equality of
							opportunity preached by the apostles of social justice "involves a forced division of
							property and that means socialism." In fact, in his opinion, the real contest was at
							bottom one over private property, and the Democratic and Progressive parties were
							merely aiding the Socialists in their attack upon this institution. He challenged his
							opponents to show how the initiative, referendum, and recall would effect significant
							economic changes: "Votes are not bread, constitutional amendments are not work,
							referendums do not pay rent or furnish houses, recalls do not furnish clothes,
							initiatives do not supply employment, or relieve inequalities of condition or of
							opportunity." In other words he took a firm stand against the whole range of "radical
							propositions" advanced by "demagogues" to "satisfy what is supposed to be popular
							clamor."
						The Democrats looked upon the Republican dissensions with evident satisfaction. When
							the time for sifting candidates for 1912 arrived, there was unwonted bustle in their
							ranks, for they now saw a greater  probability of
							victory than at any time in the preceding sixteen years. The congressional elections
							of 1910, the division in the Republican party, and discontent with the prevailing
							order of things manifest throughout the country, all pointed to a possibility of a
							chance to return to the promised land from which they had been driven in 1897. And
							there was no lack of strong presidential "timber." Two of the recently elected
							Democratic governors, Harmon, of Ohio, and Wilson, of New Jersey, were assiduously
							"boomed" by their respective contingents of supporters. Mr. Bryan, though not an
							avowed candidate, was still available and strong in his western battalions. Mr. Champ
							Clark, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and Mr. Oscar Underwood, chairman of
							the ways and means committee, likewise loomed large on the horizon as
							possibilities.
						In the primaries at which delegates to the convention were chosen a great division of
							opinion was manifested, although there was a considerable drift toward Mr. Clark. No
							one had anything like a majority of the delegates, but the Speaker's popular vote in
							such significant states as Illinois showed him to be a formidable contestant. But
							Mr. Clark soon alienated Mr. Bryan by refusing to join him in a movement to prevent
							the nomination of a conservative Democrat, Mr. Alton B. Parker, as temporary chairman
							of the convention which met at Baltimore on June 25. Although at one time Mr. Clark
							received more than one half of the votes (two thirds being necessary to nominate) his
							doom was sealed by Mr. Bryan's potent opposition.
						Mr. Wilson, on the other hand, gained immensely by 
							this predicament in which the Speaker found himself. He was easily the second
							candidate in the race, as the balloting showed, and his availability was in many
							respects superb. He was new to politics, and thus had few enemies. He had long been
							known as a stanch conservative of the old school; and although he apparently had not
							broken with his party in the stormy days of 1896, it was publicly known that he had
							wished Mr. Bryan to be "knocked into a cocked hat." In his printed utterances he was
							on record against the newer devices, such as the initiative and referendum, and he
							therefore commanded the respect and confidence of eastern Democrats. As governor of
							New Jersey, however, his policies had appealed to the progressive sections of his
							party, without seriously alienating the other wing. He had pushed through an elaborate
							system of direct primary legislation, a public utilities bill after the fashion of the
							Wisconsin system, and a workmen's compensation law. On a western tour he met Mr. Bryan
							on such happy terms that their cordiality seemed to be more than ostensible, and at
							about the same time he declared himself in favor of the initiative and referendum. His
							friends held that the conservative scholar had been made "progressive" by practical
							experience; his enemies contended that he was playing the political game; and his
							managers were able to make use of one record effectively in the West and another
							effectively in the East. Having the confidence, if not the cordial support, of the
							conservatives and the great weight of Mr. Bryan's influence on his side, he was able
							to win the nomination on the forty-sixth ballot taken on the seventh day of the
							convention.


						

						The Democratic platform adopted at Baltimore naturally opened with a consideration of
							the tariff question, reiterating the ancient principle that the government "under the
							Constitution has no right or power to impose or collect tariff duties except for the
							purpose of revenue." President Taft's action in vetoing the tariff bills was
							denounced, and an immediate, downward revision was demanded. Recognizing the intimate
							connection between the tariff and business, the Democrats proposed to reach their
							ultimate ideal by "legislation that will not injure or destroy legitimate industry."
							On the trust question, the platform took a positive stand, demanding the enforcement
							of the criminal provisions of the law against trust officials and the enactment of
							additional legislation to make it "impossible for a private monopoly to exist in the
							United States." The action of the Republican administration in "compromising with the
							Standard Oil Company and the Tobacco Trust" was condemned, and the judicial
							construction of the Sherman law criticized. The valuation of railways was favored;
							likewise a single term for the President of the United States, anti-injunction laws,
							currency legislation, presidential primaries, and the declaration of the nation's
							purpose to establish Philippine independence at the earliest practicable moment.
						Mr. Wilson's speech of acceptance partook of the character of an essay in political
							science rather than of a precise definition of party policies. He spoke of an awakened
							nation, impatient of partisan make-believe, hindered in its development by
							circumstances of privilege and private advantage, and determined to undertake great
							  things in the name of right and justice. Departing
							from traditions, he refused to discuss the terms of the Baltimore platform, which he
							dismissed with the short notice that "the platform is not a program." He devoted no
							little attention to the spirit of "the rule of the people" as opposed to the rule by
							an inner coterie of the privileged, but he abstained from discussing directly such
							matters as the initiative, referendum, and recall. He announced his clear conviction
							that the only safe and legitimate object of a tariff was to raise duties, but he
							cautioned his party against radical and sudden legislation. He promised to support
							legislation against the unfair practices of corporations in destroying competition;
							but he gave no solace to those who expected a vigorous assault on trusts as such.
						Indeed, Mr. Wilson refused to commit himself to the old concept of unrestricted
							competition and petty business. "I am not," he said, "one of those who think that
							competition can be established by law against the drift of a world-wide economic
							tendency. .... I am not afraid of anything that is normal. I dare say we shall never
							return to the old order of individual competition and that the organization of
							business upon a great scale of cooperation is, up to a certain point, itself normal
							and inevitable." Nevertheless, he hoped to see "our old free, cooperative life
							restored," and individual opportunity widened. To the working class he addressed a
							word of assurance and confidence: "The working people of America ... are of course the
							backbone of the Nation. No law that safeguards their lives, that improves the physical
							and moral conditions under which  they live, that makes
							their hours of labor rational and tolerable, that gives them freedom to act in their
							own interest, and that protects them where they cannot protect themselves, can
							properly be regarded as class legislation." As to the Philippines, he simply said that
							we were under obligations to make any arrangement that would be serviceable to their
							freedom and development. The whole address was characterized by a note of sympathy and
							interest in the common lot of the common people, and by an absence of any concrete
							proposals that might discourage or alarm the business interests of the country. It was
							a call to arms, but it did not indicate the weapons.
						Mr. Wilson's speech had that delightful quality of pleasing all sections of his
							party. The New York Times saw in it a remarkable address, in spite
							of what seemed to be a certain remoteness from concrete issues, and congratulated the
							country that its tone and argument indicated a determination on the part of the
							candidate to ignore the Baltimore platform. Mr. Bryan, on the other hand, appeared to
							be immensely pleased with it. "Governor Wilson's speech accepting the Democratic
							nomination," he said, "is original in its method of dealing with the issues of the
							campaign. Instead of taking up the platform plank by plank, he takes the central idea
							of the Denver platform [of 1908, Mr. Bryan's own, more radical still]--an idea
							repeated and emphasized in the Baltimore platform--and elaborates it, using the
							various questions under consideration to illustrate the application of the principle.
							. . . Without assuming to formulate a detailed plan for dealing with every condition
								 which may arise, he lifts into a position of extreme
							importance the dominating thought of the Baltimore platform and appeals to the country
							for its cooperation in making popular government a reality throughout the land."1
						While the Republicans and Democrats were bringing their machinery into action, the
							supporters of Mr. Roosevelt were busy forming the organization of a new party. At a
							conference held shortly after the break with the Republican convention, a provisional
							committee had been appointed, and on July 8, a call was issued for the "Progressive"
							convention, which duly assembled on August 5 at Chicago. This party assembly was
							sharply marked by the prominence assigned to women for the first time in a political
							convention. Eighteen of the delegates were women, and Miss Jane Addams, of the Hull
							House, made one of the "keynote" speeches of the occasion. Even hostile newspapers
							were forced to admit that no other convention in our history, except possibly the
							first Republican convention of 1856, rivaled it in the enthusiasm and devotion of the
							delegates. The typical politician was conspicuous by his absence, and a spirit of
							religious fervor rather than of manipulation characterized the proceedings. Mr.
							Roosevelt made a long address, his "Confession of Faith," in which he took a positive
							stand on many questions which he had hitherto met in evasive language, and a platform
							was adopted which marked a departure from the old party pronouncements, in that it
							stated the principles with clarity and in great detail. 1W. J. Bryan, A Tale of Two Conventions, p.
								228.
						
						

						The Progressive platform fell into three parts: political reforms, labor and social
							measures, and control of trusts and combinations. The first embraced declarations in
							favor of direct primaries, including preferential presidential primaries, popular
							election of United States Senators, the short ballot, the initiative, referendum, and
							recall, an easier method of amending the Federal Constitution, woman suffrage,
							limitation and publicity of campaign expenditures, and the recall of judicial
							decisions in the form of a popular review of any decision annulling a law passed under
							the police power of the state. The program of labor and social legislation included
							the limitation of the use of the injunction in labor disputes, prohibition of child
							labor, minimum wage standards for women, the establishment of minimum standards as to
							health and safety of employees and conditions of labor generally, the creation of a
							labor department at Washington, and the improvement of country life.
						The Progressives took a decided stand against indiscriminate trust dissolutions,
							declaring that great combinations were in some degree inevitable and necessary for
							national and international efficiency. The evils of stock watering and unfair
							competitive methods should be eliminated and the advantages and economies of
							concentration conserved. To this end, they urged the establishment of a Federal
							commission to maintain a supervision over corporations engaged in interstate commerce,
							analogous to that exercised by the Interstate Commerce Commission. As to railway
							corporations, they favored physical valuation. They demanded the  retention of the natural resources, except agricultural lands, by the
							governments, state and national, and their utilization for public benefit. They
							favored a downward revision of the tariff on a protective basis, income and
							inheritance taxes, the protection of the public against stock gamblers and promoters
							and public ownership of railways in Alaska.
						In spite of the exciting contests over nomination in both of the old parties, the
							campaign which followed was extraordinarily quiet.1 The popular vote shows that the issues failed to enlist
							confidence or enthusiasm. Mr. Roosevelt polled about 700,000 more votes than Mr. Taft,
							but their combined vote was less than that polled by the latter in 1908, and slightly
							less than that received by the former in 1904. Mr. Wilson's vote was more than 100,000
							less than that received by Mr. Bryan in 1896 or 1908. The combined Progressive and
							Republican vote was 1,300,000 greater than the Democratic vote. If we add the votes
							cast for Mr. Debs, the Socialist candidate, and .the vote received by the other minor
							candidates to the Progressive and Republican vote we have a majority of nearly two and
							one half millions against Mr. Wilson. Yet Mr. Wilson, owing to the division of the
							opposition, secured 435 of the 531 electoral votes. The Democrats retained possession
							of the House of Representatives and secured control of the Senate. The surprise of the
							election was the large increase in the Socialist vote, from 420,000 in 1908 to
							898,000, and this in spite of the 1 The most startling incident was the attempt of a maniac at
								Milwaukee to assassinate Mr. Roosevelt.
							 socialistic planks in the Progressive platform which
							were expected to capture a large share of the voters who had formerly gone with the
							Socialists by way of protest against the existing parties.
						These figures should not be taken to imply that had either Mr. Taft or Mr. Roosevelt
							been eliminated the Democrats would have been defeated. On the contrary, Mr. Wilson
							would have doubtless been elected if the Republicans had nominated Mr. Roosevelt or if
							the Progressives had remained out of the field. Nevertheless, the vote would seem to
							indicate that the Democratic party had no very clear and positive majority mandate on
							any great issue. However that may be, the policy of the party as outlined by its
							leader and victorious candidate deserves the most careful analysis.
						In the course of the campaign, Mr. Wilson discussed in general terms all of the
							larger issues of the hour, emphasizing particularly the fact that an economic
							revolution had changed the questions of earlier years, but always speaking of
							"restoration" and a "recurrence" to older liberties.1 "Our life has broken away from the past. The life of
							America is not the life that it was twenty years ago; it is not the life that it was
							ten years ago. We have changed our economic conditions, absolutely, from top to
							bottom; and with our economic society, the organization of our life. The old political
							formulas do not fit present problems; they read like documents taken out of a
							forgotten age. The older cries sound as if they 1These speeches were reprinted in The New Freedom after the election.
							 belonged to a past which men have almost forgotten. . .
							Society is looking itself over, in our day, from top to bottom; is making fresh and
							critical analysis of its very elements; is questioning its oldest practices as freely
							as its newest, scrutinizing every arrangement and motive of its life; and it stands
							ready to attempt nothing less than a radical reconstruction which only frank and
							honest counsels and the forces of generous cooperation can hold back from becoming a
							revolution."
						One of the most significant of the many changes which constituted this new order was,
							in Mr. Wilson's opinion, the mastery of the government by the great business
							interests. "Suppose you go to Washington and try to get at your government. You will
							always find that while you are politely listened to, the men really consulted are the
							men who have the biggest stake--the big bankers, the big manufacturers, the big
							masters of commerce, the heads of railroad corporations and of steamship corporations.
							. . . The government of the United States at present is a foster-child of the special
							interests. It is not allowed to have a will of its own. . . . The government of the
							United States in recent years has not been administered by the common people of the
							United States."
						Nevertheless, while deploring the control of the government by "big business," Mr.
							Wilson made no assault on that type of economic enterprise as such. On the contrary,
							he differentiated between big business and the trust very sharply in general terms. "A
							trust is an arrangement to get rid of competition, and a big business is a business
							that has survived competition  by conquering in the
							field of intelligence and economy. A trust does not bring efficiency to the aid of
							business; it buys efficiency out of business. I am for big business and I am against
							the trusts. Any man who can survive by his brains, any man who can put the others out
							of the business by making the thing cheaper to the consumer at the same time that he
							is increasing its intrinsic value and quality, I take off my hat to, and I say: 'You
							are the man who can build up the United States, and I wish there were more of you.'"
							Whether any big business in the staple industries had been built up by this process,
							he did not indicate; neither did he discuss the question as to whether monopoly might
							not result from the destruction of competitors as well as from the fusion of
							competitors into a trust.
						On this distinction between big business and trusts Mr. Wilson built up his theory of
							governmental policy. The trust, he said, was not a product of competition at all, but
							of the unwillingness of business men to meet it--a distinction which some were
							inclined to regard as academic. Because the formation of no great trusts had been
							unaccompanied by unfair practices, Mr. Wilson seemed to hold that no such concern
							would have been built up had unfair practices been prohibited. Obviously, therefore,
							the problem is a simple one--dissolve the trusts and prevent their being
							reestablished by prohibiting unfair practices and the arts of high finance.
						Indeed, such was Mr. Wilson's program. "Our purpose," he says, "is the restoration of
							freedom. We purpose to prevent private monopoly by law, to see to  it that the methods by which monopolies have been built up are made
							impossible." Mr. Wilson's central idea was to clear the field for the restoration of
							competition as it existed in the early days of mechanical industry. "American industry
							is not free, as it once was free; American enterprise is not free; the man with only a
							little capital is finding it harder to get into the field, more and more impossible to
							compete with the big fellow. Why? Because the laws of this country do not prevent the
							strong from crushing the weak."
						"Absolutely free enterprise" was Mr. Wilson's leading phrase. "We design that the
							limitations on private enterprise shall be removed, so that the next generation of
							youngsters, as they come along, will not have to become protégés of benevolent trusts,
							but will be free to go about making their own lives what they will; so that we shall
							taste again the full cup, not of charity, but of liberty." The restoration of freedom
							for every person to go into business for himself was the burden of his appeal: "Are
							you not eager for the time when the genius and initiative of all the people shall be
							called into the service of business? . . . when your sons shall be able to look
							forward to becoming not employees, but heads of some small, it may be, but hopeful
							business, where their best energies shall be inspired by the knowledge that they are
							their own masters with the paths of the world before them . . . and every avenue of
							commercial and industrial activity leveled for the feet of all who would tread
							it?"
						Mr. Wilson's economic system seems to be susceptible of the following summary. The
							great trusts are  "unnatural products," not of
							competition, but of the unwillingness of men to face competition and of unfair
							practices. Big business is the product of genuine services to the community, and it
							should be allowed to destroy whom it can by fairly underselling honest goods. The
							enemy is, therefore, the trust; it is the trust which prevents everybody who would
							from becoming his own master in some small business; it is the trust that has taken
							away the "freedom" which we once had in the United States. The remedy is inevitably
							the dissolution of the trusts, the prohibition of unfair practices in
							competition--then will follow as night the day that perfect freedom which is as new
							wine to a sick nation. With competition "restored" and maintained by government
							prosecution of offenders, no one need have a master unless he chooses.
						Mr. Wilson's opponents saw in this simple industrial program nothing more than the
							old gospel of Adam Smith and Ricardo--the gospel of laissez faire
							and individualism. They asked him to specify, for example, into how many concerns the
							Steel Trust should be dissolved in order to permit the man with brains and a few
							thousand dollars capital to get into the steel business. They asked him to name a
							catalogue of "unfair practices" which were to be prohibited in order to put
							competition on a "free and natural" basis. They asked him to state just how, with the
							present accumulation of great capitals in the hands of a relatively few, the poor but
							industrious person with small capital could meet the advantages afforded by large
							capitals. They inquired whether England in the middle of the nineteenth  century, with this perfect industrial ideal and free
							trade besides, presented the picture of utopian liberty which the new freedom
							promised.
						To this demand for more particulars, Mr. Wilson replied that he was not discussing
							"measures or programs," but was merely attempting "to express the new spirit of our
							politics and to set forth, in large terms, which may stick in the imagination, what it
							is that must be done if we are to restore our politics to their full spiritual vigor
							again, and our national life whether in trade, in industry, or in what concerns us
							only as families and individuals, to its purity, its self-respect, and its pristine
							strength and freedom."
						For the concrete manifestation of his general principles Mr. Wilson referred to his
							practical achievements in New Jersey, although at the time of the campaign he had not
							yet put through his program of trust legislation--a fact which was not overlooked by
							his opponents. He referred to his public service commission law, modeled on that which
							had been in effect for some time in Wisconsin. "A year or two ago we got our ideas on
							the subject enacted into legislation. The corporations involved opposed the
							legislation with all their might. They talked about ruin,--and I really believe they
							did think they would be somewhat injured. But they have not been. And I hear I cannot
							tell you how many men in New Jersey say : 'Governor, we were opposed to you ; we did
							not believe in the things you wanted to do, but now that you have done them, we take
							off our hats. That was the thing to do, it did not hurt us a bit; it just put us on a
							normal footing; it took away  suspicion from our
							business.' New Jersey, having taken the cold plunge, cries out to the rest of the
							states, 'Come on in! The water's fine.'"
						In another place, Mr. Wilson summed up his program of redemption in New Jersey: a
							workman's compensation act, a public service corporations law, and a corrupt practices
							act. This program of legislation was viewed by Mr. Wilson as an extraordinary
							achievement. "What was accomplished?" he asked. "Mere justice to classes that had not
							been treated justly before. . . . When the people had taken over the control of the
							government, a curious change was wrought in the souls of a great many men; a sudden
							moral awakening took place, and we simply could not find culprits against whom to
							bring indictments; it was like a Sunday School, the way they obeyed the laws."
						It was on his theory of the trusts that Mr. Wilson based his opposition to all
							attempts at government regulation. Under the plan of regulation, put forward by the
							Progressives, said Mr. Wilson, "there will be an avowed partnership between the
							government and the trusts. I take it the firm will be ostensibly controlled by the
							senior member. For I take it that the government of the United States is at least the
							senior member, though the younger member has all along been running the business. . .
							. There is no hope to be seen for the people of the United States until the
							partnership is dissolved. And the business of the party now intrusted with power is to
							dissolve it." In other words, the government was, in his opinion, too weak to force
							the trusts to obey certain rules and regulations, but it was strong  enough to take their business away from them and prevent
							their ever getting together again. Apparently, Mr. Wilson did not expect to find that
							cordial cooperation from the national trust magnates which he found on the part of New
							Jersey public service corporations when he undertook to regulate them.
						Mr. Wilson's political program was more definite. His short experience in New Jersey
							politics had evidently wrought great changes in his earlier academic views. In 1907,
							he thought that the United States Senate, "represents the country as distinct from the
							accumulated populations of the country, much more fully and much more truly than the
							House of Representatives does." In the presidential campaign, he advocated popular
							election of United States Senators, principally on the ground "that a little group of
							Senators holding the balance of power has again and again been able to defeat programs
							of reform upon which the whole country has set its heart." He did not attack the
							Senate as a body, but he thought sinister influences had often been at work there.
							However, Mr. Wilson declared that the popular election of Senators was not
							inconsistent with "either the spirit or the essential form of the American
							government."
						As to those other devices of direct democracy, the initiative, referendum, and
							recall, Mr. Wilson admitted that there were some states where it was premature to
							discuss them, and added that in some states it might never be necessary to discuss
							them. The initiative and referendum, he approved as a sort of "gun behind the door,"
							to be used rarely when representative  institutions
							failed; and as to the recall he remarked, "I don't see how any man grounded in the
							traditions of American affairs can find any valid objection to the recall of
							administrative officers." The recall of judges, however, he opposed positively and
							without qualification, pointing out that the remedy for evils in the judicial system
							lay in methods of nomination and election.
						Such was the economic and political philosophy of the new Democratic President
							inaugurated on March 4, 1913.
					
				
			
		
		
			



			Appendix
				
					
						Year of Election
						Candidates for President
						States
						Political Party
						Popular Vote
						Plurality
						Electoral Vote
						Candidates for Vice President
						States
						Political Party
						Electoral Vote
					
					
						1876
						Samuel J. Tilden
						N.Y.
						Dem.
						4,284,885
						250,935
						184
						T.A. Hendricks
						Ind.
						Dem.
						184
					
					
						Rutherford B. Hayes*
						O.
						Rep.
						4,033,950
						 
						185
						William A. Wheeler*
						N.Y.
						Rep.
						185
					
					
						Peter Cooper
						N.Y.
						Gre'nb.
						81,740
						 
						 
						Samuel F. Cary
						O.
						Gre'nb.
						 
					
					
						Green Clay Smith
						Ky.
						Pro.
						9,522
						 
						 
						Gideon T. Stewart
						O.
						Pro.
						
					
					
						James B. Walker
						Ill.
						Amer.
						2,636
						
						
						D. Kirkpatrick
						N.Y.
						Amer.
						
					
					
						1880
						James A. Garfield*
						O.
						Rep.
						4,449,053
						7,018
						214
						Chester A. Arthur*
						N.Y.
						Rep.
						214
					
					
						W.S. Hancock
						Pa.
						Dem.
						4,442,035
						
						155
						William H. English
						Ind.
						Dem.
						155
					
					
						James B. Weaver
						Iowa
						Gre'nb.
						307,306
						
						
						B.J. Chambers
						Tex.
						Gre'nb.
						
					
					
						Neal Dow
						Me.
						Pro.
						10,305
						
						
						H.A. Thompson
						O.
						Pro.
						
					
					
						John W. Phelps
						Vt.
						Amer.
						707
						
						
						S.C. Pomeroy
						Kan.
						Amer.
						
					
					
						1884
						Grover Cleveland*
						N.Y.
						Dem.
						4,911,017
						62,683
						219
						T.A. Hendricks*
						Ind.
						Dem.
						219
					
					
						James G. Blaine
						Me.
						Rep.
						4,848,334
						
						182
						John A. Logan
						Ill.
						Rep.
						182
					
					
						John P. St. John
						Kan.
						Pro.
						151,809
						
						
						William Daniel
						Md.
						Pro.
						
					
					
						Benjamin F. Butler
						Mass.
						Gre'nb.
						133,825
						
						
						A.M. West
						Miss.
						Gre'nb.
						
					
					
						P.D. Wigginton
						Cal.
						Amer.
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
					
					
						1888
						Grover Cleveland
						N.Y.
						Dem.
						5,440,216
						
						168
						Allen G. Thurman
						O.
						Dem.
						168
					
					
						Benjamin Harrison*
						Ind.
						Rep.
						5,538,233
						98,017
						233
						Levi P. Morton*
						N.Y.
						Rep.
						233
					
					
						Clinton B. Fisk
						N.J.
						Pro.
						249,907
						
						
						John A. Brooks
						Mo.
						Pro.
						
					
					
						Alson J. Treeter
						Ill.
						U.L.
						148,105
						
						
						C.E. Cunningham
						Ark.
						U.L.
						
					
					
						R.H. Cowdry
						Ill.
						U'd L.
						2,808
						
						
						W.H.T. Wakefield
						Kan.
						U'd L.
						
					
					
						James L. Curtis
						N.Y.
						Amer.
						1,591
						
						
						James B. Greer
						Tenn.
						Amer.
						
					
					
						1892
						Grover Cleveland*
						N.Y.
						Dem.
						5,556,918
						380,810
						277
						Adlai E. Stevenson*
						Ill.
						Dem.
						277
					
					
						Benjamin Harrison
						Ind.
						Rep.
						5,176,108
						
						145
						Whitelaw Reid
						N.Y.
						Rep.
						145
					
					
						James B. Weaver
						Iowa
						Peop.
						1,041,028
						
						22
						James G. Field
						Va.
						Peop.
						22
					
					
						John Bidwell
						Cal.
						Pro.
						264,133
						
						
						James B. Cranfill
						Tex.
						Pro.
						
					
					
						Simon Wing
						Mass.
						Soc. L.
						21,164
						
						
						Charles H. Matchett
						N.Y.
						Soc. L.
						
					
				
				* The candidates starred were elected. This table is from the World Almanac. The figures are in some cases slightly different from those
					used in the text, which are taken from Stanwood, History of the
						Presidency.

				

				
					
						Year of Election
						Candidates for President
						States
						Political Party
						Popular Vote
						Plurality
						Electoral Vote
						Candidates for Vice President
						States
						Political Party
						Electoral Vote
					
					
						1896
						William McKinley*
						O.
						Rep.
						7,104,779
						601,854
						271
						Garret A. Hobart*
						N.J.
						Rep.
						271
					
					
						William J. Bryan
						Neb.
						Dem.
						6,502,925
						 
						176
						Arthur Sewall
						Me.
						Dem.
						149
					
					
						William J. Bryan
						Neb.
						Peop.
						6,502,925
						 
						
						Thomas E. Watson
						Ga.
						Peop.
						27
					
					
						Joshua Levering
						Md.
						Pro.
						132,007
						
						
						Hale Johnson
						Ill.
						Pro.
						
					
					
						John M. Palmer
						Ill.
						N. Dem.
						133,148
						
						
						Simon B. Buckner
						Ky.
						N. Dem.
						
					
					
						Charles H. Matchett
						N.Y.
						Soc. L.
						36,274
						
						
						Matthew Maguire
						N.J.
						Soc. L.
						
					
					
						Charles E. Bentley
						Neb.
						Nat.
						13,969
						
						
						James H. Southgate
						N.C.
						Nat.
						
					
					
						1900
						William McKinley*
						O.
						Rep.
						7,207,923
						849,790
						292
						Theodore Roosevelt*
						N.Y.
						Rep.
						292
					
					

						William J. Bryan
						Neb.
						Dem P.
						6,358,133
						
						155
						Adlai E. Stevenson
						Ill.
						Dem P.
						155
					
					

						John G. Woolley
						Ill.
						Pro.
						208,914
						
						
						Henry B. Metcalf
						O.
						Pro.
						
					
					

						Wharton Barker
						Pa.
						MP.
						50,373
						
						
						Ignatius Donnelly
						Minn.
						MP.
						
					
					

						Eugene V. Debs
						Ind.
						Soc. D.
						87,814
						
						
						Job Harriman
						Cal.
						Soc. D.
						
					
					

						Jos. F. Malloney
						Mass.
						Soc. L.
						39,739
						
						
						Valentine Remmel
						Pa.
						Soc. L.
						
					
					

						J.F.R. Leonard
						Ia.
						U.C..
						1,059
						
						
						John G. Wolley
						Ill.
						U.C.
						
					
					

						Seth H. Ellis
						O.
						U.R.
						5,698
						
						
						Samuel T. Nicholson
						Pa.
						U.R.
						
					
					
						1904
						Theodore Roosevelt*
						N.Y.
						Rep.
						7,623,486
						2,545,515
						336
						Charles W. Fairbanks*
						Ind.
						Rep.
						336
					
					

						Alton B. Parker
						N.Y.
						Dem.
						5,077,911
						
						140
						Henry G. Davis
						W. Va.
						Dem.
						140
					
					

						Eugene V. Debs
						Ind.
						Soc.
						402,283
						
						
						Benjamin Hanford
						N.Y.
						Soc.
						
					
					

						Silas C. Swallow
						Pa.
						Pro.
						258,536
						
						
						George W. Carroll
						Tex.
						Pro.
						
					
					

						Thomas E. Watson
						Ga.
						Peop.
						117,183
						
						
						Thomas H. Tibbles
						Neb.
						Peop.
						
					
					

						Charles H. Corrigan
						N.Y.
						Soc L.
						31,249
						
						
						William W. Cox
						Ill.
						Soc. L.
						
					
					
						1908
						William H. Taft*
						O.
						Rep.
						7,678,908
						1,269,804
						321
						James S. Sherman*
						N.Y.
						Rep.
						321
					
					
						William J. Bryan
						Neb.
						Dem.
						6,409,104
						 
						162
						John W. Kern
						Ind.
						Dem.
						162
					
					
						Eugene V. Debs
						Ind.
						Soc.
						420,793
						 
						
						Benjamin Hanford
						N.Y.
						Soc.
						
					
					
						Eugene W. Chafin
						Ariz.
						Pro.
						253,840
						 
						
						Aaron S. Watkins
						O.
						Pro.
						
					
					
						Thos. E. Watson
						Ga.
						Peo.
						29,100
						 
						
						Samuel Williams
						Ind.
						Peo.
						
					
					
						August Gillhaus
						N.Y.
						Soc L.
						13,825
						 
						
						Donald L. Munro
						Va.
						Soc. L.
						
					
					
						Thos. L. Hisgen
						Mass.
						Ind.
						82,872
						 
						
						John Temple Graves
						Ga.
						Ind.
						
					
					
						1912
						Woodrow Wilson*
						N.J.
						Dem.
						6,292,718
						2,235,289
						435
						Thomas R. Marshall
						Ind.
						Dem.
						435
					
					
						William H. Taft
						O.
						Rep.
						3,369,221
						 
						15
						Herbert S. Hadley
						Mo.
						Rep.
						15
					
					
						Theodore Roosevelt
						N.Y.
						Prog.
						4,057,429
						 
						81
						Hiram W. Johnson
						Cal.
						Prog.
						81
					
					
						Eugene V. Debs
						Ind.
						Soc.
						812,731
						 
						
						Emil Seidel
						Wis.
						Soc.
						
					
					
						Eugene W. Chafin
						Ariz.
						Pro.
						170,626
						 
						
						Aaron S. Watkins
						O.
						Pro.
						
					
					
						Arthur E. Reimer
						Mass.
						Soc L.
						17,312
						 
						
						August Gillhaus
						N.Y.
						Soc. L.
						
					


				
				*The candidates starred were
					elected. This table is from the World Almanac. The figures are in some
					cases slightly different from those used in the text, which are taken from Stanwood, History of the Presidency.
			










			
			

			

				BIBLIOGRAPHY
				
					Guide to Literature of Current History

					THE best general bibliography for handy use is Channing, Hart, and
						Turner, Guide to the Study and Reading of American History (new ed.
						1912).
					G. E. Howard, Present Political Questions (1913)--a valuable syllabus
						of current questions with discriminating and full bibliographies (published by the
						University of Nebraska).
					The Library of Congress publishes useful bibliographies on special topics of current
						political and historical interest. A list may be obtained by addressing the Librarian,
						Washington, D.C.
					An important annual review of the current literature of American history is to be found
						in Writings on American History; published by Macmillan, 1906-1908; by
						the American Historical Association, 1909-1911; and now by the Yale University
						Press.
					Excellent topical bibliographies are to be found in each of the volumes in Hart,
						American Nation Series. The four volumes by Dunning, Sparks, Dewey, and Latané should be
						consulted for the period here covered.
				
				
					General Works
					The best general treatment of the period from 1877 to 1907 is to be found in the four
						volumes of the American Nation Series edited by A. B. Hart: W. A. Dunning, Reconstruction : Political and Economic; E. E. Sparks, National
							Development, 1877-1885; D. R. Dewey, National Problems;
							1885-1897; J. H. Latané, America as a World Power, 1897-1907.
						Each of these volumes contains an excellent bibliography of political and economic
						materials.


					

					H. T. Peck, Twenty Years of the Republic (1906)--readable work
						covering the period from Cleveland's first administration to 1905.
					Edward Stanwood, History of the Presidency (1896 ed.). A second
						volume (1912) brings the work down to 1909 and contains the platforms of 1912--useful
						for political sketches and the platforms and election statistics.
					The American Year Book, published since 1910, contains an annual
						survey of American political history and constitutional and social development.
					For political and economic matters see the current publications and proceedings of the
						American Political Science Association, the American Economic Association, and the
						American Sociological Society.
				
				
					Personal and Biographical Works
					J. P. Altgeld, Live Questions (1890)--valuable for the radical
						movement within the Democratic party.
					F. Bancroft, Speeches, Correspondence and Political Papers of Carl
							Schurz (1913), 6 vols.
					John Bigelow, Life of Samuel J. Tilden (1896).
					G. S. Boutwell, Reminiscences of Sixty Years (1902).
					Grover Cleveland, The Independence of the Executive (1900); Presidential Problems (1904)--particularly valuable for the Chicago
						strike and the bond issues; G. F. Parker, Writings and Speeches of Grover
							Cleveland (1892) ; A. E. Bergh, Addresses, State Papers, and Letters
							of Grover Cleveland (1909).
					J. A. Garfield, Currency Speeches in the House, 1868-1870; B. A.
						Hinsdale, Works of J. A. Garfield (1882-1883) 2 vols.; Great Speeches of J. A. Garfield (1881).
					Benjamin Harrison, Public Papers and Addresses (Govt. Printing
						Office, 1893); This Country of Ours (1897)--a popular view of the
						national government; J. S. Shriver, Speeches of Benjamin Harrison
						(1891); M. L. Harrison, Views of an Ex-President [Harrison]
						(1901).




					

					G. F. Hoar, Autobiography of Seventy Years (1903).
					R. M. La Follette, Autobiography (1913)--particularly valuable for
						the history of the radical movement within the Republican party and the origin of the
						Progressive party.
					Wm. McKinley, Speeches and Addresses from Election to Congress to the
							Present Time (1893); Speeches and Addresses, 1897-1900 (1900);
							The Tariff--a Review of Its Legislation from 1812 to 1896 (1904) ;
						J. S. Ogilvie, Life and Speeches of McKinley (1896) ;
					L. A. Coolidge An Old-Fashioned Senator [O. H. Platt] (1910).
					Thomas C. Platt, Autobiography (1910).
					Theodore Roosevelt, The New Nationalism (1910) contains the famous
						speech on that subject and other essays; An Autobiography (1913)--an
						intimate view of his political career.
					John Sherman, Recollections of Forty Years (1897).
					Edward Stanwood, James G. Blaine (1905).
					W. H. Taft, Political Issues and Outlooks (1909); Presidential Addresses and State Papers (1910).
					Woodrow Wilson, The New Freedom (1913). An edited collection of
						President Wilson's campaign speeches arranged to exhibit in systematic form his
						political and economic doctrines.
				
				
					Topical Bibliography
					THE ECONOMIC REVOLUTION:
						Coman, Economic History of the United States (1911 ed.)--several
						useful chapters on the period since the Civil War; R. T. Ely, Evolution of
							Industrial Society (1906).
					TARIFF: Edward Stanwood, American Tariff Controversies
							in the Nineteenth Century (1903) ; F. W. Taussig, Tariff History of
							the United States (1910 ed.).
					FINANCE: See the annual review in the American Year
							Book; D. R. Dewey, Financial History of the United States
						(1903) ; A. B. Hepburn, History of Coinage and Currency in the United
							States (1903) ; J. L. Laughlin, History of Bimetallism in the United
							States (1897); W. H. Harvey, Coin's Financial School
						(1894)--the famous work which did so much to stir up popular sentiment in  favor of free silver; W. J. Bryan, The First
							Battle (1897)--invaluable for the political aspects of the question.
					TRUSTS: I. M. Tarbell, The History of the Standard Oil
							Company (1904) ; G. H. Montague, The Rise and Progress of the
							Standard Oil Company (1903)--more favorable to trusts than the preceding work; H.
						D. Lloyd, Wealth against Commonwealth (1894)--a critical attack on the
						evil practices of trusts; J. W. Jenks, The Trust Problem (1905
						ed.)--study of the methods and causes of trusts; John Moody, The Truth
							about the Trusts (1904)--full of valuable historical and statistical data; W. Z.
						Ripley, Trusts, Pools, and Corporations (1905)--a useful collection of
						historical and descriptive materials.
					RAILWAYS: W. Z. Ripley, Railroads: Rates and
							Regulation (1913)--a monumental and scholarly treatise; E. R. Johnson, American Railway Transportation (1903); H. S. Haines, Restrictive Railway Legislation in the United States (1905) ; B. H. Meyer, Railway Legislation in the United States (1903).
					CIVIL SERVICE: C. R. Fish, Civil
							Service and the Patronage (1905, Harvard Studies); L. G. Tyler, Parties and Patronage (1888).
					POPULISM : S. J. Buck, The Granger Movement . . . 1870-
							1880 (1913, Harvard Studies)--important for all aspects of agrarianism for the
						period; F. L. McVey, The Populist Movement (1896).
					LABOR: R. T. Ely, The Labor Movement in America
						(1902); T. V. Powderly, Thirty Years of Labor (1889); John Mitchell,
							Organized Labor (1903); T. S. Adams and H. Sumner, Labor Problems (1906).
					IMMIGRATION: Frank Warne, The Immigrant Invasion
						(1913); Peter Roberts, The New Immigration (1912)--a study of the
						social and industrial life of Southeastern Europeans in America; H. P. Fairchild, Greek Immigration (1911), and Immigration: a World Movement
							and its American Significance (1913); P. F. Hall, Immigration and
							Its Effects on the United States (1908); I. A. Hourwich, Immigration
							and Labor (1912)--a study of the economic aspects of immigration and favorable to
						a liberal  immigration policy; J. W. Jenks and W. J.
						Lauck, The Immigration Problem (1912)--particularly valuable for the
						data presented.
					SOCIALISM: Morris Hillquit, History of Socialism in the
							United States (1910) ; W. J. Ghent, Mass and Class (1904) ; J.
						W. Hughan, American Socialism of To-day (1912); W. E. Walling, Socialism as It Is (1912). On the newer aspects of socialism and trades-
						unionism: John Spargo, Syndicalism, Industrial Unionism, and Socialism
						(1913); A. Tridon, The New Unionism (1913); J. G. Brooks, American Syndicalism (1913); W. H. Haywood and F. Bohn, Industrial
							Socialism (1911); James O'Neal, Militant Socialism (1912).
					WOMEN: Edith Abbott, Women in Industry (1909); E.
						D. Bullock, Selected Articles on the Employment of Women (1911); E. B.
						Butler, Women in the Trades (1909) ; R. C. Dorr, What
							Eight Million Women Want (1910); I. H. Harper, Life and Work of
							Susan B. Anthony (1899-1908), History of the Movement for Woman
							Suffrage in the United States (1907) ; E. R. Hecker, Short History
							of Woman's Rights (1910) ; G. E. Howard, A History of Matrimonial
							Institutions (1904); Helen Sumner, Equal Suffrage (1909)--a
						study of woman suffrage in Colorado; C. P. Gilman, Woman and Economics
						(1900).
					CONTROVERSY OVER THE JUDICIARY : Gilbert Roe, Our Judicial Oligarchy
						(1912)--a criticism of recent tendencies in the American judicial system ; B. F. Moore,
							The Supreme Court and Unconstitutional Legislation (1913)--a
						historical survey; W. L. Ransom Majority Rule and the Judiciary (1912)
						; F. R. Coudert, Certainty and Justice (1913); G. G. Groat, Attitude of American Courts in Labor Cases (1911); C. G. Haines, The American Doctrine of Judicial Supremacy (1914).
					POPULAR GOVERNMENT : G. H. Haynes, The Election of Senators (1906)--valuable for the question of popular election;
						C. A. Beard and Birl Shultz,Documents on the Initiative, Referendum and
							Recall (1912); E. P. Oberholtzer, Initiative, Referendum, and Recall
							in America (1911); Walter Weyl, The New Democracy (1912) ; H.
						Croly, The Promise of American Life (1909).
					THE SOUTH: A. B. Hart, The Southern South (1910);
						E. G.  Murphy, Problems of the Present South (1904) ; H.
						W. Grady, The New South (1890) ; W. G. Brown, The Lower South (1902).
					THE NEGRO PROBLEM : The Annals
						of the American Academy of Political and Social Science for September, 1913, is devoted
						to articles on the progress of the negro race during the last fifty years. A. P. C.
						Griffin, Select List of References on the Negro Question (1906,
						Library of Congress); R. S. Baker, Following the Color Line
						(1908)--valuable for the handicaps imposed on the negro in the South; J. M. Mathews, Legislative and Judicial History of the Fifteenth Amendment (1909) ; M.
						W. Ovington, Half a Man (1911)--status of the negro in New York; T. N.
						Page, The Negro (1904)--viewed as a Southern problem; A. H. Stone, Studies in the American Race Problem (1908)--discouraging view of the
						economic capacities of the negro; B. T. Washington, The Negro in the
							South (1907)--useful for economic matters; and The Future of the
							Negro (1900); A. B. Hart, Realities of Negro Suffrage (1905);
						G. T. Stephenson, Race Distinctions in American Law (1910).
					THE GROWTH OF THE WEST: H. H.
						Bancroft, Chronicles of the Builders of the Commonwealth (1891-1892),
						7 vols.; J. C. Birge, The Awakening of the Desert (1912) ; C. C.
						Coffin, The Seat of Empire (1871); Katharine Coman, Economic Beginnings of the Far West (1912), 2 vols.--exploration and settlement;
						J. H. Eckels, The Financial Power of the New West (1905) ; F. V.
						Hayden, The Great West (1880)--resources, climate, Mormons, and
						Indians; J. S. Hittell, The Commerce and Industries of the Pacific
							Coast (1882); R. P. Porter and others, The West (1882)--review
						of social and economic development from the census of 1880; L. E. Quigg, New Empires in the Northwest (1889)--Dakotas, Montana, and Washington; Julian
						Ralph, Our Great West (1893)--survey of conditions; Joseph Schafer,
							A History of the Pacific Northwest (1905); W. E. Smyth, The Conquest of Arid Arizona (1900).
					MONROE DOCTRINE: J. B. Moore, History of American Diplomacy (1905) ; J. W. Foster, A Century of
							American Diplomacy (1901); J. H. Latané, Diplomatic Relations of the
							United States and Spanish America (1900) ; A. B. Hart, Foundations
							of American Diplomacy (1901) ; Hiram Bingham,
							The Monroe Doctrine (1913)--a severe criticism of the Doctrine.
					THE SPANISH WAR : F. E. Chadwick, Relations of the United States and Spain--excellent for diplomatic affairs; H.
						C. Lodge, The War with Spain (1899)--an interesting popular account;
						H. D. Flack, Spanish-American Diplomatic Relations Preceding the War of
							1898 (1906)--a careful analysis of the causes of intervention; George Dewey, Autobiography (1913).
					IMPERIALISM: D. C. Worcester, The Philippines: Past and
							Present (1914), 2 vols.--a great and authoritative work by the former Secretary
						of the Interior in the Philippines; H. P. Willis, Our Philippine
							Problem (1905)--a study of American Colonial policy; J. A. Leroy, The Americans in the Philippines (1914)--a large and authoritative work on the
						early stages of American occupation; F. C. Chamberlin, The Philippine
							Problem (1913); J. G. Schurman, Philippine Fundamentals (1901);
						Elihu Root, Collection of Documents Relating to the United States and Porto
							Rico (1898-1905, Washington); L. S. Rowe, The United States and Porto Rico
						(1904); E. S. Wilson, Political Development of Porto Rico (1906); W.
						F. Willoughby, Territories and Dependencies of the United States
						(1905)--a general work on the government of the territories.
					THE PANAMA CANAL: J. B.
						Bishop, The Panama Gateway (1913)--an authoritative general account;
						W. F. Johnson, Four Centuries of the Panama Canal (1906).
					THE PEACE CONFERENCES: Joseph
						Choate, The Two Hague Conferences (1913); J. B. Scott, The Hague Peace Conferences of 1899 and 1907 (1909).
					AMERICAN INTERESTS IN THE ORIENT: F. F. Millard, The New Far East (1906)--special
						reference to American interests in China; P. S. Reinsch, World
							Politics (1900).
				
			




			
			
			
				INDEX
				
					Aguinaldo, 217
					Alabama, disfranchisement of negroes in, 11
					Aliens, proportion of, 248
					Altgeld, Governor, 108, 160
					American Civic Federation, 251
					American Federation of Labor, 250
					Anti-monopoly party, 138
					Anti-trust cases, 331 ff.
					Anti-trust law (1890), 134
					Arbitration in labor disputes, federal law, 102
					Arbitration, treaties, 1911, 329
					Archbald, Judge, impeachment of, 326
					Arizona, 41 ff.; contest over recall of judges, 287
					Army. See Spanish War
					Arthur, Chester A., nomination, 95; administration, 97
				
				
					Ballinger, R. A., 328
					Blaine, James G., 95; candidacy in 1884, 98; on silver question, 121
					Bland-Allison bill, 123
					Bonds, sales under Cleveland, 106
					Bourne, Senator, attacks on convention system, 353 ff.
					Bryan, W. J., speech in Democratic convention of 1896, 180; nomination of, 187;
						acceptance speech in 1896, 188; favors initiative and referendum, 284; candidacy in
						1900, 227; candidacy in 1908, 318 ff.; program in 1908, 318; attacks Taft's judicial
						appointments, 330
				

				
					Campaign funds, 239, 240 ff.; controversy over, in 1904, 268; in 1908, 320; in 1912,
						357
					Campaign, 1896, 195 
					Canada, reciprocity with, 342
					Cannon, Speaker, overthrow of, 336 ff.
					Capital, influence of, in politics, 33
					Capitalism, in South, 48; evolution of, 229 ff. See Industry and Labor.
					Cervera, Admiral, 210 ff.
					China, opening of, 203; American interests in, 224
					Chinese coolies, 35
					Cities, growth of population, 34, 247
					Civil rights act, 14 ff.
					Civil rights cases, 15
					Civil service, and Theodore Roosevelt, 104; law of 1883, 130
					Clark, Champ, candidacy of, 365
					Clayton-Bulwer treaty, 276
					Cleveland, Grover, career of, 97; nomination and first administration, 98 ff.;
						second administration, 105 ff.; tariff message of 1887, 110; and income tax, 139; bond
						issues, 162; supports Gold Democrats, 193; and Venezuela affair, 199; and negotiations
						with Spain, 206
					Coastwise vessels, exemption of, 276
					Colombia, failure of negotiations with, 278
					Combinations, in business, origin of, 36
					Commerce, growth of, 202; interstate, 312
					Conkling, Roscoe, sketch of, 51 ff.; and Grant's candidacy, 95
					Conservation, Roosevelt's policy, 275
					Consolidated Gas case, 81
					Constitution, provisions relative to money, 119; criticism of, 305 ff.
					Convention, presidential, attacks on, 353 ff.
					Corporations, growth of, 235; regulation of, 310. See
						Trusts.


					
					Court, commerce, 326
					Courts, criticism of, 89
					Coxey's army, 107
					Crédit Mobilier affair, 31
					Cuba, conditions in, 204; war over, 209 ff.; settlement of, after the war, 221;
						interference in (1906), 222
					Currency, law of 1908, 197
				
				


					Dakota, 41 ff.
					Daniel, J. W., temporary chairman of Democratic convention, 171
					Debs, E. V., imprisonment of, 108; and injunctions, 160; candidate for President,
						298
					Debt, national, refunding of, 117
					De Lôme incident, 207
					Democrats, contest against election laws, 4 ff.; party platforms, 108 ff.;
						convention of 1896, 168 ff.; platform of 1896, 172; Gold, convention of 1896, 192 ff.;
						convention and platform of 1904, 267; victory in 1910, 339; in 1912, 372
					Dewey, victory at Manila, 209
					Dingley tariff, 229
					Direct primary, 289
					Due process. See Fourteenth amendment.
				

				

					Economy and efficiency commission, 328
					El Caney, 211
					Election laws, federal, contest over repeal of, 4 ff.
					Employers' liability, federal, 274
					Erie Railway, capitalization of, 39
				
				

					Farmers, discontent of, 162
					Farmers' Alliance, 151
					Farm population, 40
					Farms, increase in number, 40; size of, in South, 47
					Fifteenth amendment, nullification of, in the South, 1; schemes to avoid, 9
						ff.
					Finance, high, early experiments in, 39
					Fourteenth Amendment, interpretation of, 54 ff.

					Free silver, discussion by W. J. Bryan, 180 ff.
					Free silver. See Bryan, W. J.
					Garfield, nomination and administration of, 94 ff.; assassination, 96
					Georgia, disfranchisement of negroes in, 11
					Gold Democrats, 192 ff.
					Gold standard, Republicans favor in 1896, 166; established by law (1900), 197;
						Parker telegram on, 267
					Gompers, Samuel, 251
					Gould, Jay, 38
					Granger cases, 67 ff.
					Granger movement, 147
					Grant, third term contest, 94
					Great Britain, and Venezuela affair, 199
					Greenback party, on income tax, 137; doctrines of, 150
					Greenbacks, amount of, 117; reissue of, 123
					Guiteau, assassinates Garfield, 96
				


				

					Hague conference, 281
					Hancock, General, candidate for the Presidency, 96
					Hanna, M. A., convention of 1895, 165; and campaign of 1900, 227; career and
						policies of, 239 ff.
					Harriman, E. H., and controversy with Roosevelt, 270
					Harrison, Benjamin, candidacy and administration, 103 ff.
					Hawaiian Islands, 203
					Hayes, and the South, 1 ff.; vetoes repeal of election laws, 5; administration of,
						92 ff.
					Hay-Pauncefote treaty, 276
					Haywood, W. D., 301
					Hepburn act, 271
					Hill, D. B., in Democratic convention of 1896, 170 ff.
					Hobson, R. P., 210
				
				

					Idaho, 41 ff.
					Immigration, 34, 248
					Imperialism, 199 ff.; in American politics, 227






					

					Income tax, law of 1894, 127; 137 ff.; annulled by Supreme Court, 152 ff.; W. J.
						Bryan on, 189; advocated by Roosevelt, 262; amendment to federal constitution,
						325
					Industry, in 1860, 29; in South, 48. See Labor.
					Industrial Workers of the World, 301
					Initiative and referendum, origin and growth of, 284 ff.; in Progressive platform,
						371; favored by Wilson, 380
					Injunctions, use of, in labor disputes, 36; an issue in politics, 158 ff.
					Insular cases, 218 ff.
					Insurance, regulation of, 310
				
				


					Japan, opening of, 203; American interests in, 224
					Jenks, J. W., on trusts, 238
					Jim Crow cars, 19
					Judicial review, growth of doctrine of, 67 ff.
					Judiciary. See Supreme Court and Recall.
					Knights of Labor, 35, 249
					Ku Klux Klan, 1
					Labor, number of wage earners, 34; in South, 48; in party platforms, 114; and
						tariff, 115; regulation of, 249 ff., 304, 308
					Labor legislation and the courts, 87 ff. ; Federal, 141
					Labor movement, 249
					Labor problem, rise of, 35
					Labor, Knights of, 35, 249
					Labor Reformers, 35, 145 ff.
					La Follette, R. M., candidacy of, 344 ff.
					
						Laissez faire, and the Constitution, 54 ff.; Gold Democrats defend,
						192; decline of, 304; Wilson's view of, 377
					Liberal Republicans, 109
					Lincoln, on social equality for the negro, 21
					 Lochner v. New York, 87
					Louisiana, Republican rule in, overthrown, 1 ff.; disfranchisement of negroes in,
						11
				
				

					Maine, the battleship, 207
					Manila, naval battle of, 209
					Massachusetts, primary law in, 356
					McKinley, Wm., tariff bill, 126; and the gold standard, 167; election of, 197;
						administration of, 199 ff.; and Spanish war, 206 ff.; renomination in 1900, 227;
						election, 228; campaign funds of, 241
					Merritt, General, 212
					Mexico, relations with, 342
					Miles, General, 212
					Mills, tariff bill, 126
					Minnesota rate case, 73 ff.
					Mississippi, disfranchisement of negroes in, 10
					Mitchell, John, 250
					Money question. See Silver question.
					Monroe Doctrine, 199 ff.; Roosevelt on, 262; 280
					Montana, 41 ff.
					Morgan, J. P., 231
					Mormons, 42 ff.
					Morrison, W. R., and tariff, 126
					Mugwumps, 99
					 Munn v. Illinois, 67 ff.
				
				

					Nebraska, primary law in, 356
					Negro, disfranchisement of, 1 ff., 7 ff.; social discriminations against, 14 ff. ;
						attitude of the North toward, 19 ff. ; problem, 22 ff.; education of, 23; in industries,
						24; movement, 25
					New Mexico, 41 ff.
					New nationalism, 314 ff.
					North Carolina, disfranchisement of negroes in, 11
					North Dakota, 41 ff.
					Northern Pacific, 42
				
				
					Oregon, primary law in, 354
					Palmer, J. M., candidate for President, 192
					Panama, canal, sketch of, 275 ff.; revolution in, 278
					Paper money. See Greenbacks.
					Parcels post, 327
					Parker, Alton B., nomination and candidacy of, 267 ff.




					

					Payne-Aldrich tariff, 323 ff.
					Pensions, vetoes by Cleveland, 101; law of 1890, 105
					Philippines, military operations in, 209 ff. ; revolt against the United States,
						217; government of, 223; in American politics, 227; Republican platform of 1904 on, 265;
						Democratic platform of 1904 on, 267
					Platt amendment, 221
					Poll tax, to disfranchise negroes, 9
					Populist party, origin of, 149 ff.
					Populists, and disfranchisement of negroes, 9; on income tax, 138
					Porto Rico, conquest of, 212; government of, 222
					Postal savings banks, 326
					Primary, direct, origin and growth of, 288; presidential, 352 ff.; presidential, in
						1912, 358
					Progressive party, origin of, 357 ff.; 370 ff.
					Progressive Republican League, 344
					Prohibition party, 144 ff.
					Pullman strike, 107
					Pure food law, 273
				
				
					Railways, construction of, 29 ff.; land grants to, 30; frauds connected with, 31;
						anarchy among, 39; state regulation of, 67 ff.; party platforms on, 113 ff.; regulation,
						federal, 133; state regulation of, 149; and stock watering, 234; regulation of, 272;
						physical valuation of, 273; consolidation of, 306
					Reagan v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, 76 ff.
					Recall, of judges, origin of, 89; origin and growth of, 287; Wilson on, 380
					Reciprocity with Canada, 341
					Reed, T. B., speakership, 104; candidate for President, 165
					Republicans, platform of 1876, 2; radical school, 2; favor new "force" bill, 20;
						favor enforcing the Civil War amendments, 21; doctrines of, 1880-1896, 90 ff. ; party
						platforms, 108 ff.; convention of 1896, 164 ff.; convention of 1900, 226; convention of
						1904, 265; convention of 1912, 357 ff.
					Resumption act, 118
					Rockefeller, J. D., 37
					Roosevelt, at San Juan Hill, 211; nominated for Vice President, 227; succeeds to the
						Presidency, 228; administrations of, 254 ff.; doctrines of, 255 ff. ; characterization
						of, by Republicans in 1904, 266; Democratic criticism of, in 1904, 268; Parker charges
						as to campaign funds of, 269; La Follette's criticism of, 347; candidacy of, in 1912,
						349 ff.; new nationalism, 350; breaks with Republicans, 360
					Rough Riders, 211
					Rules committee, powers of, 337
					Russo-Japanese war, Roosevelt's part in ending, 281
					Samoan Islands, 203
					San Juan Hill, 211
					Santiago, military and naval operations near, 210 ff.
					Santo Domingo, affair of, 279
					Senators, U. S., direct election of, 290 ff.; popular election favored by Wilson,
						380
					Shafter, General, 211 f.
					Sherman, silver purchase act, 124; anti-trust law, 134
					Silver question, party platforms on, 116, 162; origin and development of, 119 ff.;
						in campaign of 1896, 165 ff.
					Sixteen to one. See Silver question.
					Slaughter-House cases, 59 ff.
					Smyth v. Ames, 78
					Socialism, opposition to, 251; rise and growth of, 296 f.
					Socialist Labor party, 147, 297
					Socialist party, rise of, 298; vote in 1912, 372
					Socialists, vote of, increase in 1904, 271
					South, Republican rule in, 1 ff.; new constitutions providing for disfranchisement
						of negroes, 10 ff.; over-representation of, in Congress, 20;  economic advance of, 46 ff.; Republican delegates from, 354
					South Carolina, Republican rule in, overthrown, 1 ff.; disfranchisement of negroes
						in, 11
					South Dakota, 41 ff.; initiative and referendum in, 284
					Southern Pacific, 42
					Spain, war with, 204 ff.
					Spanish War, close of, 212 ff.
					Speakership. See Reed and Cannon.
					Standard Oil Company, 37
					State socialism , 252
					Steel trust, 230
					Stock watering, 234
					Strikes, of 1877, 35; Pullman, 107
					Suffrage, woman, growth of, 294
					Sugar trust, 239
					Supreme Court, declares parts of election laws invalid, 6 f.; and disfranchisement
						of negroes, 13; civil rights cases, 15; and Fourteenth Amendment, 54 ff.; criticism of,
						86; and income tax, 152; Democratic attack on, in 1896, 173 ff.; defense of, 178; W. J.
						Bryan on, 189; Gold Democrats defend, 193; Taft's appointments, 329
					Taft, W. H., on recall of judges, 287; in Philippines 223; nomination and election
						of, 317 ff.; administration of, 322 ff.; nomination of, in 1912, 362; acceptance speech,
						364; Progressive criticism of, 345
					Tariff, in Cleveland's first administration, 103; Wilson bill, 108 ; party doctrines
						on, 1877-1896, 108 ff.; legislation, 1877-1896, 124 ff.; Republican platform of 1908 on,
						318; Payne-Aldrich act, 323 ff.; board, 339 f.; Democratic attacks on in 1911-1912,
						341

					Third term contest, 94
					Tillman, on negro suffrage, 8; attack on Cleveland in Democratic convention of 1896,
						175
					Trusts, origin of, 37; party platforms on, 112; law against (1890), 134; growth of,
						229 ff.; views as to cause of, 237; Roosevelt on, 257 ff.; Bryan on, in 1908, 319;
						Republican platform of 1912, 363; Progressive party's platform, 371; Wilson's view of,
						375 ff.
					Unemployment, in 1894, 107
					Union Labor party, 138, 146
					Union Pacific, scandal of, 31
					Unions, Trade, 301 ff.
					United Labor Party, 146
					United States v. Cruikshank, 7
					United States v. Harris, 7
					United States v. Reese, 7
					Utah, 41 ff.; initiative and referendum in, 285
					Vanderbilt, Cornelius, 38
					Venezuela affair, 199
					Vetoes, by Cleveland, 101 f.
					Vilas, Senator, in Democratic convention of 1896, 179
					Virginia, disfranchisement of negroes in, 11; ex parte, 17
					Wage earners, number of, 34
					Washington, state of, 41 ff.
					West, development of, 41
					Wilson, Wm., tariff bill, 127
					Wilson, Woodrow, candidacy of, 365; acceptance speech, 367; policies of, 373
						ff.
					Women in industries, 248
					Woman suffrage, growth of, 294 ff.; endorsed by Progressives, 371
					Wyoming, 41 ff.
				
			
		




	
